ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20578	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please take your seats. We continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 134 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there is sufficient number of MPs to start working day. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Nikola Jovanovic. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search and search into the specifics of the bill's proposals, as well as a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE VETERINARY LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft veterinary law to the vote in principle. For 127, they did not vote two out of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the amendment was withdrawn by MP Arsen Kurjački to the title above Articles 30 and 30 and National MP Milorad Krstin to Article 30, as well as that they became an integral part of the Bill's amendment of MP Dragan Petrovic to Article 96, and that a new member of 164a and the Committee on Agriculture were added to Article 9 and to the title above Articles 30 and 30. Ambassador Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 103, 6 of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with two abstentions, had not voted 11 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic to article 115. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 14 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 99, 9 of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic to Article 126. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, a abstentioned one, had not voted 11 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Prvoslav Savic to Article 158. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, it did not vote 11 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Masic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 164a be added after article 164a. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 101, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on the draft veterinary law in general. For 126, against one, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a veterinary law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the transport laws in the DRMS COOPERATION After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Transport Act in road transport, in principle. For 127, they did not vote two out of a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, 12 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 13, out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, in general. For 126, a abstentioned one, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE REFERENCE OF THE TRUE ABOUT THE NEW CHILDREN MISSED FROM THE PARENTS IN MORE CITY IN SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a single search into the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for a decision, we approach the vote on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Veroljub Stevanovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9. For 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, to which Members of Parliament pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 12.35, indicated that a member of 86 was injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, 9 did not vote, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 12.40 p.m., indicated that the injured members of the 104th position 1 were members of the 100th century 1, 2rd and 3rd and members of the 86rd and 5th centuries. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 12.52 p.m., indicated that a member of the 104th century was injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 12.57 hours, indicated that members of 103, 86, 104, 100 and 101 were injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 13.09 p.m., pointed to injuries of members 100nd and 102nd paragraphs 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 120, 9 did not vote, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 12 October 2005, at 13:12 p.m., referring to Rule 27th item 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, said that the president of the National Assembly had injured several members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly from 10.00 to 13,15 hours. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the infringements of the Rules of Procedure have been committed, which were pointed out by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Against 122, 6 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that no violations of the Rules of Procedure have been committed, to which the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet, pointed out. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. My Rules of Procedure closes the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. (The session is over at 10:30. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20579	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF 20 October 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 10:30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall, and in agreement with Article 86. Rules of Procedure, we start work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from being attended by MP Nikola Jovanovic. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 11 October 2005. Since the electronic system shows that more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, and on the basis of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Administrative Board has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 11 October 2005. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 11 October 2005. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda in accordance with the urgent procedure, a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of each agenda. A group of 80 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda a draft resolution on the state of human rights and the position of national minorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 55, with three abstentions, he did not vote 71, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal for an emergency procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposal for a law on the liability of a producer of a matter with a lack, a draft law amending the Law establishing fines for commercial offences and infringements, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Proposal for a Law on Infringements, submitted by the Government, points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Agenda, as well as a joint uniform search on the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and a proposal for the Financial Plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005, submitted by the Republic of the Broadcasting Agency, points 15 and 16 of the Agenda. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic proposed a change in the order of certain items of the proposed agenda, so that the 13th point - Proposed tobacco law, becomes the 12th point of the agenda, and the 12th point - the Bill on Police, becomes the 13th point of the agenda. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 128, it did not vote five out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to put on the agenda of the session of the act under emergency procedure and proposals for amending the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 128, they did not vote 32 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport, which the Government has submitted; 2. Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law to mark the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on the responsibility of the producer of the problem with the lack, which the Government has filed; 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law establishing fines for commercial offences and violations, which the Government has filed; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regulating Courts, submitted by the Government; 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on violations, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law on public roads, submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law on the state audit institution, which was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic; 11. Proposal for a law on foreign trade by the Government; 12. Proposal for a tobacco law submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law on police, submitted by the Government; 14. A report on the work of the Securities Commission, with an annual account for 2004 and a report by the authorised auditor submitted by the Committee on Papers of the value of the Republic of Serbia; 15. Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which was submitted by the Republic Broadcasting Agency; 16. Proposal for a financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005, submitted by the Republic Broadcasting Agency; 17. Termination of duty, resolution and choice of judicial office holders. We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20581	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, although in Article 77. The Rules of Procedure say that one third of the full composition of the committee can convene a session of a congregation committee, I would like to call on Article 27, paragraph 4, where it is said that the president of the National Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly’s working bodies. It's about the Assembly Committee on International Relations. I ask the President to respond adequately, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that this committee is re-constituted in a valid manner, because it has not been working for a long time, and as it is known, there are events in which this committee must react. Of course, it's about the Vojvodina Resolution and maybe some other cases. The resolution was brought by the European Parliament and it is order and complemented by our parliament to react to such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20582	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Thank you for the intervention. So the president of the National Assembly has repeatedly intervened, and now I'm doing it publicly. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, since the Committee has no elected president, but has the elected Vice-President, once again I appeal to Mr Smiljanic, Vice-President of the Committee, to urgently schedule a session at which the Committee would end the election, on the basis of the proposal, of the President, so that he may be in office in relation to all these reasons which are now being said. Thank you very much. Here you are, MP Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20583	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've come out for two reasons. First, I will refer to what MP Zeljko Tomic said, and it is important for the work of the National Assembly, and then let me tell you something that we discussed at the previous session, and it is of great importance for the future work of the National Assembly. I know that here you can reject the proposals of the SRS MPs, that you do not put in an emergency procedure or the proposals of our resolutions, declarations and other general acts. You can take it off the agenda as much as you want, but let me tell you that today, three or four days before the official Security Council decision on a different way, I'm deliberately talking about it, not starting negotiations, because I hope it won't be in the way they imagined, about a different way of solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, we're going to be distracting ourselves or talking about incomparably less important things for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, but these are key problems of vital interest for the whole people and for the whole country. I don't want to underestimate the importance of topics that are on the agenda, I don't want to underestimate the subject - doping in sport or I don't know what, but I want to tell you that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, the question of the European Parliament resolution in Vojvodina, which we should have responded to in a general legal act, is unique, or to see how and in what way someone here supports the dukedom of Tadic, Karic, Kasa and Chanka, so let's see who these people agree with their conclusions. This is how we let the citizens of Serbia wonder what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing, how they decide on the agenda and whether there are more important issues in Serbia. Because of the fact that I've been slandered from this pay phone and since I've been told several times to lie, in those words, when I spoke about my fake e-mail address being e-mailed from G17 plus, I've been told that I'm lying and they've never done it, I'm delivering a letter from the first municipal public prosecutor's office, in which they say, among other things, "We're informing you that for your criminal charges against the NN perpetrators, because of the criminal act of false representation of Article 24. The KZRS, which refers to E-mail messages sent by an unknown person to a number of media houses, representing itself as SRS Secretary General Aleksandar Vucic, this prosecution to the RS MUP, SUP in Belgrade, the Criminal Police Administration, the Public Order and Peace Department, in 15.7.2005, submitted a request for the collection of the necessary information, requiring that the identity of the NN person be revealed." The conclusion now comes: "According to our request to collect the necessary information, the RS MUP, SUP in Belgrade, the UPP, the First Section informed us that the message in question was sent from the address of the political party G17 plus, Belgrade, Square of the Republic of 5/8. A report by the RS MUP said that SUP Belgrade workers were unable to carry out more detailed checks on the message sent from this address, as the provider through whom the message was sent did not save logs for the IP address from which the message was sent. However, the prosecutor's office is asking the RS MUP to continue to establish which person did it individually." I just wanted to show you, and I don't want to discuss this any further, and I'm counting on an officer to perform a party task, but I think it's important enough to show who's a liar, who's a criminal and who's doing these things and who's looking for, Mr. President, an apology. It doesn't mean anything to me, but the National Assembly would make it very important. I expect you, because you belong to this political party, to apologize publicly to me, not to anyone else, because you said I was telling the truth, to lie, not to you, but to your party's representatives. To return you to what is much more important than this, let the people talk about what we have suggested you put on the agenda according to the urgent procedure, and that is, above all, the adoption of a resolution on the situation in Vojvodina on the resolution that has been adopted in the European Parliament. If you think it's better to keep quiet, to ignore all things, to pretend like nothing happened to us, similar or same resolution awaits us in February of next year, and then you'll see what kind of problems we'll face around Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20584	National MP Milorad Albianic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20585	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Vukic has no other business, he's trying to attack the G17 Plus party. Would you, Mr. Wolfie, be a little more serious, courteous, so we can talk in a normal way. As for that famous hack, e-mail, maybe you or one of your guys planted that e-mail you're talking about. What's this about? It's not our idea to do this to you. It is enough that here in the Parliament of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, I, at the head of the Radicals, will lead to an envious measure, as it is necessary in Serbia for radicalism to exist, i.e. It doesn't exist. It's some other people's fault, not us, that you've got 80 MPs in this assembly, but you'll have less thanks, among other things, to me. It's your right to be angry. You can do whatever you want to do and try for a congregation speaker to insinuate, invent, plant and do anything, but it won't work. I think we need to deal with matters of the state in a serious way. At the same time, you're trying in a marketing way to deal with the issue of national minorities. Oh, my God, aren't you the party that completely destroyed those relationships in Vojvodina? The assembly and this government, from 2000 to today, have done the most for the position of national minorities in Serbia. I agree that there is not a sufficiently clear view, that under the given circumstances lobbying has not been prevented from taking place with the said resolution, but it should also be pointed out that in the domain and position of the national minorities, indeed relations have been promoted, as regards the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is hypocritical that you, as a political party, appear that these relations now want to be arranged, that you make a statement, etc. I think it would be better to think about the bad things in the past that you've done finally giving up, so that you can in a normal and polite way be correct here in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20586	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was absolutely polite, decent, just reading a letter from Deputy Prosecutor Ivan Jeftic, with all the stamps. I'm sorry to bother you about the institutions you're headed on and where you're setting people up. They say you're thieves and criminals. The whole people know that, but that's what people say here. I listen every day on the news to make a lot of noise about bird flu. I thought it wasn't in our country, but I can see there's a problem with the bird flu in our country. I fear that some should be put into quarantine, isolated, so that it does not spread further to the citizens of Serbia. We've been listening to things here. I expected an apology because it would be normal and honorable of a man. I didn't expect this one to answer. I expected Predrag Markovic, but since Predrag Markovic is uncomfortable, he left the session to Vojislav Mihailovic, because nothing else is expected of this. What he's saying is that the M.O.P., whose head he's in, is lying about, that's what the D.A., who he's headed, is telling us what kind of state we live in. I don't mind it, it's the only thing that scared me and worried that he was gonna bring us down to a reasonable extent. I don't know if it's a bird flu or if it's going to shoot us, I don't know what he's decided to do, because the more Mr. Albianic shows up, the better it is for us, every day we go up. Just get out, every single one of your replicas, there's a new thousand votes for us. The more you go out, the more people like us. How come you haven't figured that out by now? We went into parliament with 82, with 28%. Today we're at 38%, and soon we'll be at 48%, and thanks to you, among other things. You're talking about members of the national minorities. I don't want to talk about your party at all. It's one big and dangerous opponent for us. As many votes as we gather in two smaller places, you gather in all of Serbia, so there's an unsolved game around here. There's something very important to us and it's a serious question that has nothing to do with you, which I want to talk about. It's a matter of relations with national minorities. In this National Assembly, instead of some people who deal with politics talking about it, that we all think the same, and that we think well of this country, and that we want to protect the rights of national minorities, and that they have national minorities in our country in accordance with the highest European standards, because we say that regardless of what you are in power, I expect you don't say anything. Do not invent when it comes to the SRS and it would be good for those you are talking to to say that you have members of many nations in the Serb Radicals Group, that you have a vice president of the National Assembly who is a Bulgarian, who is a Serbian radical, that you have MPs who are other nationalities, Islamic religions and other religions, and Protestants. I'm just asking you, on whose behalf are you talking here, about what kind of a breach of relationships, where? Are you talking about Vojvodina, where we beat you by 20-1? Is that what you're talking about? The fact that in Kragujevac G17 can't break through, it's no wonder, but where there's a lot of praise that especially well stands behind by 20 times for the SRS is a special problem. I will expect nothing more from anyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I expected you, too, Mr. Mikhailovich. I'm counting on someone who's presidencies to have the honor of saying that there's something that's evidence, because last time they told me I was lying when I said that the M.O.P. was telling it. I brought in a paper showing that the D.A.'s office announced this and that the procedure is being conducted that this e-mail was sent from the political party G17 plus. Maybe we have spies in the G17 so they don't know what to do, they do it from your rooms. How much mind you may have that you'll come up with, but this shows that in Serbia you can do whatever you want and that you'll go out and invent and insult. Insult as much as you please, do whatever you want, and as much as you want, not for yourself, not for the MPs of the SRS, not for the sake of the SRS in general, I promise we will beat you all together in the next election. We use pen and paper. Not with you in the streets, but with a pen and paper. And those who will vote for Stankovic tomorrow, who will say that he will be a godless witness to the defence, to justify their hypocrisy and their insolence, even though the man is an associate of The Hague tribunal and the UN tribunal's prosecution, some who act as patriots throughout Serbia. All together, as many as there are, count yourself now, there will be three times less of you, and we will be much more than today. This is the attitude of Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens want to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20589	I have the right to a replica. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Wolf, I have the right to the line and immediately to tell you that I am not insulting you. If you can't talk to me differently, but say you need to put me in quarantine and isolation, that's proof that you don't want to talk, but to insult or want to eliminate political opponents from the Assembly. That's not gonna work out for you, and I didn't tell the assembly speaker that the M.O.P. was lying, that the prosecutor was lying. That's what Wolf said, not me. So don't plant your words on anyone else. As for spies, I don't know if there are any or no spies, I don't do chasing spies, I don't deal with sinks and other things, that's what you do, but while you're on the subject of spying, my God, I guess that's what you're in for, maybe that's how you're born as a political party. That's more about you than someone else. Is it possible for a hacker to plant such a thing, now, after all, as you say, I'm inclined to suspect that you did it, planting such an e-mail to strangers G17 plus. Maybe just with the intention that stands in all this, but I don't know, you push it now, push it, search, keep trying to frame someone, that's your problem, not mine. As for the state and society in general, we had a chance to hear the grades a few days ago -- October 5, then five years later. We had a chance to look back at what it was until then, what a collapse of the state, what a collapse of institutions, what all led to the end of it, when you were in government, our country was going to war with the whole world. And since then, to this day, a completely different situation. And you as a political party enjoy having the opportunity to compete in a parliamentary fight with other political parties, not missing hair from your head, and you're guilty of a lot of it. Today, when we look at what the situation looks like in Serbia, and only when we agree done in the previous year, it comes from getting a positive assessment of the Performance Study, via the EU textile agreement, the abolition of trade sanctions by the United States, through the Annual Assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Belgrade, through the assessment that reforms are the best in the world and, finally, the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. Do you recognize yourself in these processes, that's your problem. You don't recognize, you're not participants. Therefore, it is clear where this government leads, and what our goal is, regardless of your desire to return rhetoric to some previous period. It's not our wish, nor will we do it that way. The time has come to show who can take responsibility for certain matters of the state and it is time for us to take matters seriously. So, yes, we have questions that we have to face in order for the unburdened to go into the future, but we are ready for all state issues, unlike the opposition that is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20590	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20591	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a statement to the list of "Kurir" three days ago, I said I wasn't worried about bird flu, I don't believe that something like that would spread around us, I don't know, I've never been afraid of these new diseases, I reckon only children should be taken care of. But I can see now that this bird flu is a very dangerous disease, i.e. a dangerous disease and that, for God's sake, it has spread to part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it can be like a vicious epidemic to spread to another number of MPs, but I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will not and that they are absolutely immune to such nebulosis and nonsense spoken by the MP Albianic. I have to say, and Jovan Ducic once said it, I don't think I can take his words, but there's always a need to be afraid of people who aren't ashamed of anything. Mr. Albianic is a dangerous man in that sense. He's not ashamed of anything. He can come out like this and make it up, say, he did the M.O.P. found out he was from G17 plus, but that's what you set me up, you can do anything. It is possible to say that the National Savings Bank is the best job in Serbia's history. You can say that you have contributed to the development of Serbia, as no one has ever contributed to the globe. You can accuse Nikola Pasic of being the greatest villain because he fought with the strongest forces of the world and lost a third of the male population. I expect you to say the same thing about Karadjord and many others, because you would stick to one who had a war and had conflicts. You're the only one who's smart. You'd be the only one who'd sing in the Solidarity House. My dears, we love you very much, come and conquer our country, we're thrilled that you want to occupy it. That's what we're different about. We differ in the fact that we Serbian radicals think, and that is still said in ancient Rome - freedom is the most obstacles of all things. It's that waterhouse between us and you, which is more important to you to be where there's money, where you can take something, even if they beat you up every day and humiliate you in the worst possible way, and we love freedom, which is what we are, and that's why we're proud of you. You're not worth talking about or answering, and we're not going to try. When you talk about October 5th and what happened before October 5th, today you rule with the help of those who ruled ten years before October 5th, you manage Serbia thanks to them, thanks to their support in the Serbian Parliament, do whatever you want. You rob, kidnap, take whatever you want for the people and the citizens of Serbia. Since you're not ashamed that those who let you do it attack every day, because you're not attacking us, we've been in the government for two years, you're attacking those who do it, or they've been doing it for ten years. You were saying something here -- you weren't missing hair from your head, you're guilty, and what, do you need to kill us, whether you need to cut our kids like you cut Milovan Bojić's daughter, whether you should do it, let's try it. I'm telling you, try to do it, you're very smart and strong, try it. Threaten to will, as long as you will. We promise you, you won't miss anything, you'll have all the conditions, your political party will survive if you have enough voters. For those who have done something illegal, we will provide good food, clean water, good prison conditions, with a good squatter. And don't worry, because it will be much better for the citizens of Serbia, and we will all comply with the highest European and world standards of respect for human rights to do so. It is Serbia's future and it is unfortunately your future, but that future of Serbia will be much better and much more beautiful than this present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20592	One moment, Mr. Albianic, you'll get the right, and it's my right to determine who has the replica, and it can suddenly go, and we really can't go to the agenda then. Please, you have your word, but be careful how you treat others. Please don't challenge or cause any new replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20593	Why didn't you warn him after he said I had the bird flu?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20594	I'll warn him too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20595	So what the citizens of Serbia need to know. They should know, when Vukic shows up at a pay phone, that it's a small Seselj, he's big with his war buddy in The Hague, but this kid's trying to rhetoric here to really demean, using different kinds of personal qualifications to a certain man. I think it's inadmissible, I think that insulting Parliament in any way shouldn't seem, but that little Seselj doesn't run away from anything, just for the very reason he learned so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20596	Mr. Albianic, I asked you to choose your words. Keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20597	Pasic fought the whole world and lost a third of the population. How are you not ashamed to compare 1999 to 1914-1918? How can you not be ashamed? Then we had allies in the world, the strongest forces in the world, and in 1999 you fought against the entire democratic world. How can you not understand that? How dare you compare something so historic? How are you not ashamed to define conflict with the whole world as a loss of population? How can you not be ashamed to compare such a loss of the population? What did you have in mind, Mr. Wolfie, when you were talking about the Carlos-Carlobag-Ogulin-Virovica border, about losing half your population? How are you not ashamed to discuss this way about this people, our history and what we are proud of? Freedom is the most obstacles, you're right here; October 5th, in the true sense of that word, freedom has come here. Democracy has come. People said it's easier to breathe, we can live normally, we can communicate, we can deal with politics. There is no Satanism as it was while you were at the head of the Ministry of Information, when you were closing everything that could be closed, and there was a sound of a democratic, there was a free thought, a free word. That's what we're different about. You keep trying to get us back into that rhetoric, in that period, but it's not gonna work out for you, people who are responsible for work are doing here, and we're leading the country forward, as much as you want to bring her back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20598	In accordance with Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break until 12:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20599	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work after the break, which was determined by Vice President Mihailovic on the basis of Article 111 to maintain order. I found applications for replicas, but the MPs are not there at the moment, Mr Nikolic and Obradovic. They did. The first is the replica of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, followed by Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, first according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm reading, I'm ready to listen to you, I'm reading what's written here, and I'm finding these two replicas. I am now informed that MP Aleksandar Vukic has first reported to the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Tomislav Nikolic reported to the Rules of Procedure, and I answered the line. ) Tomislav Nikolic and Zarko Obradovic, who reported to the Rules of Procedure, are not presently there. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic appears. Is that okay? Be kind, come and tell us all, because you certainly have a word. (Alexandar Vukic, from the post: Tomislav Nikolic appeared in the Rules of Procedure and I in the replica). And you called in the replica? It is fine, since the MPs who have reported to the Rules of Procedure are not here at the moment, and he has been reported as a replica MP for the People's Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good for the Assembly to be managed by Predrag Markovic at this time, because I expect an apology from Mr Markovic. I'm counting on him to be a much more serious man than the one who answered here, insulted something, threatened something a little bit, and said that I was lying, and the prosecution, and the M.O.P., and I don't even know who it was. What do we do? That's what I expect from you, Mr. Markovic, because as you know some people ended up in prison for false representation, for false bomb charges, for false tips like this and for that reason, Mr. President, I expect an apology from you. If nothing else, it's the least for such a con that's been made out of room G17 plus, which can be done. As for the kind of attempt at disqualification where it's going to be said, there's a little Seselj, one or the other. You know, whatever you turn it around, it's even the smallest, it's a lot bigger than all of G17 together, and by education, by wit, and about honor, and I don't have to talk about it. I have nothing against such senseless insults, and to which branches the government has fallen to us to deal with such lies and fraud, it seems to me that the best case and example of Miloljub Albianic, but it speaks much more of him. And the citizens of Serbia wanted to hear something else today, and that's why I'm sorry, Mr. President, that you didn't listen to it. They wanted to hear what the proposal for a general act was tabled by the SRS on the European Parliament's Resolution in Vojvodina, which is why we in our country would have to deal with the key problems too much. You hear yesterday's foreign minister, who already predestines a delegation that will participate in negotiations, who can, who can't. You hear what's going on around the southern Serbian province, no one's responding, we pretend that doping is important at this point, and Serbia is slowly but surely under the leadership of this government is failing, it's losing part by piece of territory, and everyone's pretending like nothing's happening. I have no intention anymore, because I have found today that some people are absolutely immoral, I hope, I am convinced that you, Mr. President, do not belong to you, but that you will condemn such hypocritically, at the very least, cynical behavior, and apologize for all the words they have spoken, since they said that we are lying, that we are making up, so when we brought them paper, then you are silent again and they say that there may be some spies. It is yours to establish, since you are in power, and no one can enter the Republic Square without your permission. In any case, I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia know that Mr Albianic is actually doing real marketing for us. Every time he shows up, here's some reporters tell him -- don't criticize him, come out and thank the man, he's brought up another ten thousand votes. We're running a door-to-door campaign now. I want to thank you for your kindness to all Serbian citizens who receive SRS activists and discuss problems with them. We are doing this "Secure Voice" campaign just to win those, and those who have left this assembly, who have done a lot of evil to Serbia, and we think this is the most important thing for the citizens of Serbia right now. That is why we are going to beat them all together and bring so many expected changes to Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20601	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, then Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to address the President of the National Assembly and his deputies who lead the Assembly in the manner he has established here. You, Mr. President, just like you own it, like you privatized this National Assembly. When you feel that the debate is in line with the wishes of the ruling majority, and especially with the wishes of the G17 plus, the debate can run. When it seems to you that it doesn't suit your political party, then you, and those who replace you, take a break. You're counting on passion to calm down, and no one's going to say there's a thief in G17 plus, no one's going to call you back for the obvious mistakes that come up here, and let your representative come out here and tell you what he's up to. We part, the people remain in the belief that it is all in accordance with the rules of conduct, that everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it was the wish of the Messengers to stop fighting. Then why are we here today rather than arguing? On one side of the government, on the other side of the opposition. We make arguments, we argue when it comes to the law and when it comes to the political situation. What do you want here? To say, yes, you are the best, you have 12% of the vote in Serbia, you do whatever you want, ride whoever you want, and we really appreciate it, we have half the electoral body in Serbia. We can't tell you anything, because you remember how badly we led Serbia two years ago when we were in power. Now an Albianic comes out, no one lives in Serbia has heard of him. If he wasn't coming to the house every day, would you remember him and his family? He says to Wolf - you're a little Seselj. Is there anything more beautiful than someone who deserves a nickname, to continue Seselj's political life here in Serbia? What can I say to Albian? You're a little Dinkic. What would that look like in Serbia? Don't talk about Pasic here, Mr. Alibianic, to celebrate Pasic's work, because he had big political rivals at the time. If he had a G17 plus on the political scene at the time, they'd be chasing him to hang him for all the moves. Pasic did not allow foreign researchers to enter Serbia's territory, and you were hunting Ratko Mladic with foreigners yesterday. This is an idiotic country. You should be ashamed to run a country once run by Pasic. This people experienced being led by Dinkic, Albianic and Labus now, and Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. All together to put them only pounds have more than Nikola Pasic, and brains, brains, political wisdom and grams. Your political wisdom is in the translation of dictatorships from the west. That's all. You've closed, he says, whoever you want. You won't miss the hair on your head. And what's wrong with you, Mr. Albian, is that we've been involved in politics. You compare the current time with the time when we entered the Serbian government. At that time, none of you, apart from the Socialists, were allowed to enter that government, were allowed to deal with terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija. You call those who bombed us with a civilized democratic world. You call that the ones that killed our children. I know what you should put on your head... (President:Time. Albian, and it's in the party...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20603	Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20604	Mr. President, I went out on behalf of the parliamentary group to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to Mr. Albianic's behaviour and the words spoken here. In fact, we from one topic, very specific, Mr. Vukic showed a letter from the prosecutor's deputy and the claim from the prosecutor's deputy, passed on to a general story and qualifications which, of course, have no slight connections, and especially because they are incorrect. They're not on the agenda. I expected Mr. Albianic to be able and should say that these claims by the deputy prosecutor are not correct and prove it in a relevant way or promise to prove it. Instead, he entered verbal bickering, giving qualifications, making assessments that are personal, stately irresponsible, and particularly incorrect. The mention of 1999 and the claim that the then government warred with the whole world is, of course, incorrect. In fact, the state is irresponsible what he was saying about these times and so on. The democratic world that bombed Serbia 78 days and nights. I have the impression that some people, and in this case, Mr Albianic, cannot escape from a cliché that was created in the 1990s, in which they participated, and from claims that already, in 2005, no one normal in this Serbia is questioning. Why? Because the actors of those events in 1999 said what was going on. Madlen Albright told the BBC that Rambuje was designed to bomb Serbia. The duck was invented to give rise to an attack on Serbia. Holbrooke met with Albanian terrorists in autumn 1998 and since then, Albanian terrorists have become human rights fighters. It is not the whole world that has waged war with Serbia, nor has Serbia waged war with the whole world, but 18 Western countries, led by America, decided to bomb Serbia and finish the work that began in 1990 by breaking the great Yugoslavia. The state is irresponsible to go out and say things that aren't right. If Mr. Albianic has no argument for the story compared to Mr. Vukic's claims, then let him keep his mouth shut. We are now facing an important issue, a state-of-the-art issue of the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Those who bombed us in 1999, those who took over the management of Kosovo and Metohija, have done nothing until now, and that is, to remind the countries, parties and individuals who funded the then opposition, who said it was democratic, minority, I don't even know what question and that everything will be resolved. It didn't work out. Why? Because it was neither then nor now a minority question but a state issue. If Mr Albianic cannot be controlled, then the G17 parliamentary group must find another way to communicate with the Assembly, not us, not these MPs do, but the states do. Any such address and such claims raise many other questions: so who then signed requests for Serbia's bombing in 1999, how the then-instincted political organisations are the opposition, who founded movements, institutes, claims and many more. No one in this congregation will feel comfortable, and at least those who talk about those years from the point of view of an absolute truth, when the data is reported from this place, then the truth looks very different. Now, in 2005, to claim that Serbia was at war with the whole world, I really can't understand, I can't understand that anyone can say that. Mr. President, your obligation was, or that man who replaced you, to suspend Mr. Albianic's exposure, to warn him or to remove him from the session, because he violated Article 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not only spoke of something not on the agenda, but also of the dignity of the congregation and MPs, questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20605	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Replica, please, Mr. Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20606	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't expect many to come to defend Mr. Vukic. Obviously, a man in a duel with me can't handle it. Okay, I don't want this debate going on any other way. I want to get back to the agenda. The minister has been waiting a long time to present the law. As for me personally, what I consider to be a violation of personal dignity, I must answer. I'm a man who for 10 years belonged to the opposition in the 1990s, and that's an indisputable fact. Also, during the bombing, the NATO aggression, I was mobilized to a unit of our army. I've spent three months, and I'm proud to say that you can't treat me that way. In this state of war, I have become a reserve officer, and I believe that every way that demeans me in this regard is not good and worthy. I really want to end the controversy this way and get back to the agenda. I will always defend my personal dignity, as will the G17 Plus Party, but not only defend but also affirm all the good things we do for the sake of the Serbian state and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20607	Thank you. I owe you a few notices. First, a session of the Traffic and Communications Committee will be held at 1400 hours on the fourth floor. I hope it's important to the MPs. Secondly, since it was a personal address on several occasions, not because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but simply by calling for the president of the National Assembly to be declared, I will consult what is written in the stenogram. I don't know what the discussion was about in my absence. I can't be in two places at once. If there's anything where the President of the Assembly can take action, I'll take action. The information I received was delivered to you at the beginning, because I got it here, that the chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure had interrupted the session to establish order. According to the list of registered speakers, I followed that, for I share the view of all of you that the congregation is serving to debate attitudes. Of course, we don't have to argue, but to argue, that's important. Then, if it's a personal apology around some rooms, everyone knows well, I've submitted my property card, all my rooms are known and I sincerely hope that no one has access to my premises while I'm away and I'm doing my job here. If anything happened in my rooms, of course I'd take all the action and apologize. So, I don't know about any events in Predrag Markovic's rooms, which he might apologize for. Otherwise I stick to the rules, I hope we all share it -- the man is responsible for what he does and for what he represents. I'm always behind that responsibility. I hope we share that. Mr. Wolf, the replica, and then hopefully we'll start the agenda, since we haven't started the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, you know what I mean, but I won't, because honorable people won't talk about what they know from private sources and I won't abuse it, Mr. Markovic. It wasn't about your private rooms, it was about your party rooms, G17 plus. The RS MUP established it, the prosecution confirmed it. Only the D.A.'s office lacks a name. In the meantime, I found out the name of the man, and I also found out the name of the person who gave him the warrant, and that's what the D.A.'s office is going to inform you about the other day, so you know that by political order, by political order, it's said -- let's try to bring some kind of fight and dissension between Tom and Vukic. It's pointless and it wouldn't be a problem if a man hadn't committed a crime and it wasn't the height of corruption. It's the height of corruption and fraud, and I think everyone in this room is ashamed of his coalition partner doing something like that. That's your thing. Mr. Markovic, that's what happened to you. As for this story about how many people it takes to defend me, I haven't seen anyone bring up any information that would defend me. I'm not the one who's guilty or the suspect, I'm the guy from G17 plus. As for how I can't handle Mr. Albianic, I admit it, that's the whole truth. No one can handle a man alive. There's a device where he's absolutely incoherent, in which he wins without any limits, which is a blinter. I'm just afraid for the device, so it doesn't explode completely when Mr. Albianic shows up on it. I admit, you're an absolute winner at that facility, no one can hurt you, and there's no great philosophy. As far as the Serbian Parliament is concerned, I don't want to talk about this man anymore, just the citizens of Serbia see it all. If he says at one point "civilised countries of the world", then he has fought against civilized countries of the world. I don't know what a man's saying anymore, but it doesn't matter much. In all this, I respect that a man fights for his attitudes. I don't respect that he can't say, if anything, we apologize for where the most severe moral offense has been committed. It's a shame, and for everyone else I understand, it's politics and there's no big philosophy. Since I see this Vuk Draskovic is already making a negotiating team and this unfortunate man thinks he should be there, we are informing you that it would be good for the Assembly to declare it, that the Assembly should have its opinion and that the Assembly should choose those who will discuss it. If anyone thinks that we long very much for the company of Vuk Draskovic or the representative of today's government, I can tell you right now -- no, not at all, we are just looking forward to beating you all, to distract you all in accordance with national will, and for the citizens of Serbia to start living better. About the arrest, thieves will go to jail, not political opponents. In this we differ from those who ruled before these today, and in this we will differ from all others. We will live in a normal state, where you will be able to talk normally in parliament, and the representative of our government will never send you an e-mail from Milos Aligrudic or Slobodan Vuksanovic, or anyone else. And that's where we're going to differ, because we're going to show not only that we're more capable and responsible, but that we're better people than those who run Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20609	I repeat once again, the law is the same for everyone and I will certainly advocate that the law be implemented if there is a legal breach. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Doping in SPORT You received a proposal submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Youth and Sports Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic - 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 21 minutes, 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and these are the four MEPs, two MPs of the Social Democratic Party and two independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda is MP Vojkan Tomic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic, minister of education and sports, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Vuksanovic. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to inform all MPs of two things, because of the way we are going to work today. So, we're going to be working until the principle debate is over on the agenda of 1800 hours. Also, I'd like Vice President Zankov to take over for me. In the spirit of everything that's been said now, I need to discuss the election for the Bačka Palanka municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20610	I won't take up much of your time, because this law is otherwise not large by text, by the number of members, and we don't have much amendments. I don't think this is going to cause much discussion, at least I hope so. It is about an international obligation of our country in the field of sport, which is very important, because without the law on the prevention of doping in sport, our country cannot participate in any major international competition, both large and small, and it cannot also be organised by small or large international competitions. As you know, Serbia has already won the organisation of several major world competitions over the next few years. The 2009 university is the largest among them, but before it we should be the organizers of significant and European and world competitions. You know how important this is not only for sports, athletes and sports lovers, but it is also important for national, state and general interests, so this law would be a kind of ticket to international sport. It sets out very precisely everything that is related to preventing the use of doping. It also lays down penalties, varied, for those who either produce or trade in doping funds, or those who use doping funds. Penalties are very strict, from cash, misdemeanor, to criminal and disqualification of athletes in the case of drug use. What is also important is the formation of an anti-doping agency, which would exist at the Ministry of Education and Sports, but which would be composed as independent, as the proposings, 15 members of the board of directors, would also be sports alliances, and the Olympic Committee, the Ministry of Education and Sports and the Supreme Court of Serbia. In this business, doctors are most important, and hence, the health ministry proposes two of its members. In these 15 members of the sports people and people in health care would have their important obligations and inspection would be established, one service within that agency, which would control and monitor athletes at home and also in international competitions held with us. Our country is already a signator of an international declaration relating to the fight against doping in sport. It was signed by Serbia-Montenegro as a state union on 19 December 2003. This has been done by over 170 governments in the world and it is one of the topics of the general conference of the Union, which starts in two days. It's one thing in the world that exists as a rule spread now and on professional leagues, to the professional competitions of the highest rank on all continents in the world. What has been a practice so far has not actually been good, because the existing, current Sport Act, which is still in force today, in anticipation of a new one, predicted that doping control was done through sports alliances and within them, however, it did not work. It didn't work in either of us, it didn't work in the world either, so that's where the whole world, all countries, including ours, decided to make one world or international anti-doping code, which includes signing a declaration. We're a little late in passing this law, but it's still no big deal. By the end of the year, it would be mandatory to pass a law like this, although this law was in the process more than a year ago. It seems to me that twice because of the cross-laws he was left out of the agenda, which he had already been included in and here, with only a few amendments that fix the text, this law should be passed. The amendments that have been rejected, and otherwise there are few amendments, have only been rejected because their contents have already been included in the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20611	Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word was first reported by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20612	The SPS parliamentary group believes it is good that we are discussing this anti-doping law today and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will pass this law. Yesterday in the daily newspaper on sports sites, one who reads the sports pages could find information that, for example, footballer Middlesboro fell to doping after the UEFA Cup game, which was played by the English team on September 29th, that he was using illegal funds and that a UEFA reaction is now expected, whether or not the match will be cancelled. I mention this for the reason that doping is in sport, especially in the top, something that exists and shouldn't be turned on. In fact, many athletes want to achieve the best results – because with better results there is a lot going on, popularity, the rise in the price of that athlete, many areas where this top athlete can solve his existential question. They do not choose funds and apply those substances that are legally illegal and faster and better results than those athletes who exercise normally and make an effort to achieve top-notch results in a sport and fair-play way. In fact, it's not just athletes do drugs, it's horses. Thanks to the kindness of the people with whom we talked about preparing this session and this law, we received information that, for example, in 1666, at horse races in Great Britain, since the UK has a rich and long tradition of horse sports and racing, eight jockeys gave arsenic horses as an illicit means and were publicly condemned and hanged for giving these funds to animals. As for humans, from 1886 to today, it has been officially found that there have been 112 deaths in sports. The first man who died of doping, that is, from excessive use of illicit funds was English cyclist Linton at the Paris-Bordo cycling race, and this speaks of a long tradition of using these illicit funds. Today you have sports in which illicit assets are used, and these sports are not the subject of medical expertise, nor is there anti-doping control. There is a claim that, for example, in tennis or in the attractive NBA league, antidoping control is not used. Which is why you can conclude for yourself. It's a huge profit, certainly not human health, because you'll notice that these two sports dominate the world from the point of view of total income, marketing, sales of sports equipment, etc. And behind that side is the dark one, that many results are achieved in an unauthorized way. It is not disputed that science should be used, science has always been present in sport, science has tried to expand the possibilities of man to some extreme possibilities and this use of science in a positive sense is not disputed. Here we talk about another use of science, when using certain means, the organism is able to achieve some result faster and better, in an unfair way, to achieve this result. I think it's a good thing our country is passing this law, because we don't need to forget that there are drug cases with us. A few years ago, one of our famous high jumpers was punished by two years for using certain unauthorized funds. 20 years ago, a ball thrower was punished for his unauthorized funds. Those who follow sports a little bit more can remember that our water polo team in 1976, at the World Cup, because of one athlete, whether the result was cancelled, in any case we went worse than our sports values require. So there's one thing about us, and it's just a question of whether or not we're going to talk about it in public. The most tragic thing is that doping tends to be related to top sports, and doping is essential in amateur sports, which is not the subject of control, but also in recreationals. Many people who like to look fresh, wrinkled, with muscles, use these banned steroids again for some other reason and simply display themselves in a better light than it is and create a false myth about values they do not possess. The essence of this law is that we as a country, as a state, join that part of countries that introduce anti-doping control in sport, in order to really determine who is the fastest, best, best, best-quality, who owns that knowledge, ability, physical preparedness, intelligence depending on sports, and who can achieve the best possible outcome in a fair way. It's good for sport, and it's good for viewers, of course. Because of sport, it's good to see who is the one who, thanks to his values, achieves a good result, of course by using science and what science prescribes, and it's good that we ordinary people as viewers know that these sports values are a prerequisite for some good result, because it's not good when a man goes to a game, pays a ticket, looks, enjoys a spectacle, and then finds out that he's been deceived because that best result was not achieved by the one who's the best but the one who's got some things saved. In any case, I think it's a good thing we're discussing this law today, because this law protects sports, protects people in sports and establishes a system of values both in sport and in society. It is less known that people who use these means have problems after the end of a sports career, have health problems, above all, because of the use of illicit means, because it affects many organs of man and causes certain mental disorders, liver loss, heart, kidneys and prostate. So it's not innocent to use these illegal means at all, nor is it, therefore, more significant that this law be passed. In any case, the SPS believes that this law should be adopted, because it needs our sport and it is not disputed. This law should not only be viewed as entering our country into that sport, if I may say so, a group of countries dealing only with top-notch sports, because its importance is much broader and I personally think that the application of this law will introduce a certain order in sport and I think it is necessary. It is indisputable to meet all athletes with the content of this law, to know exactly what, when and what medical means can be used, it is part of some medical treatment and what, for God's sake, can happen if they use illicit means. That's what I'm saying, because there's a situation, and there's data about it, where some athletes were getting medications without knowing what the contents of those pills they were using and then they caused some problems in their health, problems like that that some people stopped playing sports. I'm saying this for reasons that athletes are directly injured and will be victims of the use of illicit funds, so coaches and doctors should also be educated about the harmfulness of doping funds, because the fact that they use these illegal means that are 10, 50 or 100 times stronger and cause certain negative reactions. I have to mention a few more things, it's undeniable that we've had a lot of drug cases in the past, mostly in this international sport. Maybe he's in the memory of people who are following the sport of Ben Johnson's case, who was doped, although he won gold Olympic medals on two or more races, I can't remember exactly, but after that he passed, after that ban on using, on American football, and there he charged it with his sports business, except in that American football, there's no doping control, so he could continue using those funds. And our athletes sometimes lacked doping control on their heads, that is, us, and those who follow basketball will be remembered in 1972 and when we lost to Puerto Rico at the Olympic Games, even though we were then champions of the basketball world, that later it was found that one or more basketball players used unauthorized funds, but that game was not cancelled, although it should, because the result was produced by illegal effects or using these funds. All in all, I have to say, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, it's a good thing that we're going to adopt this law, that it's good for athletes, because of young generations that go into sport, that they know what's waiting for them, it's good that parents know what sports there are doping controls in which they don't exist. In white sport, as popularly called tennis, it is a public secret that certain top tennis players or tennis players do not want to participate in tournaments where there is doping control, and it is good that parents know when to invest in their children, expecting a top score and what comes afterwards, to say, a solution to material existence for life. It is also good for our country, as organizers of future international organisations, that we too enter the ranks of countries that carry out anti-doping control. Otherwise, according to the information we've received, it's not cheap at all, this world-wide anti-doping organization is asking for bail, so according to the information that we have about 20,000 dollars, and then they send you ten samples of a different composition, so if you want to show that you're capable of controlling, to determine the existence of a doping, you have to analyze those 10 vials. If one shows that it is incorrect, you lose your bail and you cannot get permission to be a relevant factor in that. So it's not as simple as it looks, but in any case, it's good for our country to pass this law. It's just good for the state, for sport, for youth, parents, children, and we will support this law. At the end of the presentation, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to thank Professor Stanoj Stanojevic, University Professor, Doctor and Head of the Red Star Team, although I promised not to say it as partisan, but I must say it out of correctness to man, because in the preparation of this law, i.e. to the MPs of the SPS, I have introduced us to some other solutions, to help us perhaps better, wider and more comprehensively understand the importance of this issue and the importance of adopting this law both for sport and for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20613	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Vojkan Tomic. Just one more piece of information, I have called the election for the council of the Municipality of Backo Palanka for December 18th, and the electoral works are starting to run from Monday, October 24th.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the presentation of my colleague, Mr Obradovic, it is indeed a great pleasure for me to hear one such exposure that is in the interest of informing the public about the adoption of such a law, which applies to Serbian sport, to a truly sports nation like ours, and to point out the harmfulness of the doping itself, which is clearly present in our country, but may not be sufficiently talked about. Of course, the DSS and the DSS Parliament Club stand fully for the adoption of such a law, because the DSS and all that it has done so far when it comes to all those laws that serve Serbia's integration, and not only to European institutions, but also to such large groups of countries as the signatories of the Antidoping Control Declaration, which gather all those sports nations that advocate pure sport, and according to that information that I have and which can be very easily found on the government's website, is the number of some 168 countries. As far as the very importance of this law is concerned, we have heard from the Minister and Mr Obradovic that it is immeasurable, precisely because of the lack of quality and real anti-doping control in Serbia, where it can be said that in the past 10 years and that there have been no fundamental anti-doping control and that there have been no conditions so far, because there is no laboratory in Serbia itself that could do so, and that there is, it must adopt these standards that we have already heard of. As far as obligations are concerned, of course we have an obligation, because we are also signatories of this Convention, so that all those obligations we have made should be met as soon as possible. One of the deadlines recommended by the government itself, or the World Anti-doping Agency, after the adoption of the Declaration at the UNESCO Grand General Assembly in Paris, which ended on 17 October, to try to implement all these regulations until the start of the Winter Olympics, held in February of next year. Of course, the adoption of one such law aims to inform our general public, not only the sports public, because we assume that all roof sports organisations will inform their members about the adoption of this law, but that in the general public, primarily through the media, through sports media, a broader discussion of the harmfulness of doping itself in sport. The tendencies in the world are just to go to a clean sport, to give great media attention to all those cases we've had in doping. I suppose you're aware that also famous cyclist Armstrong has an affair, which is present in the world's sports media, that he used certain illegal funds when he won one of the Tour d'Frans, and there are more. As regards the very harmful means that are subject to doping, the World Agency publishes a list of harmful assets on its site every month, so that everyone can know which means are harmful and which are subject to doping, or which are not allowed. As far as sports and critical sports themselves are concerned, we as a nation that is good and is good at group sports, in the world doping is much more present in some sports in which we, unfortunately, are not so good. We have a chance to see that big doping affairs appear in athletics, swimming, cycling, etc. However, we must not forget that our nation also wants to be better at these sports and that one of the actions that needs to be led by the world's athletic organizations is that just in these sports, where doping is present, a strong marketing global campaign, these sports, who are accused, who consume the most illicit assets, are cleared. In the end, we heard from the minister that we are about to organize big sports competitions. Of course, we need to have one of these laws that will be implemented. It takes some time, but what's important for our athletes is that they be adequately informed and ready to take adequate participation in these major sports events. I'd like to say a few sentences about the law itself, and it specifically refers to one of the objections made by the SRS, why the agency was founded. The agency is set up precisely for the reasons of proper communication with the World Agency, as well as with other agencies formed in other countries, which are in charge and care for anti-doping control. So this solution, which is proposed in this law, is absolutely in line with these comparative experiences. As regards the measures themselves taken, which are provided for in this law, of course covered by this law, not only the consumption of unauthorized funds by athletes themselves, but also the criminal provisions provide for the stricter punishment of all those who stimulate athletes, or force them to take illegal funds, as well as those that organise and distribute, produce and all that leads to those illegal assets coming to athletes themselves. So these violations and these criminal provisions, which are provided for in this law, are in line with this, and that there are obligations for doctors to notify the athlete, if treated, that any of these funds are on the list of funds that are not allowed to be consumed at the time of the competition. As regards the criminal provisions themselves, it should be borne in mind that a parallel has been made with criminal provisions defined in the Criminal Code, which relate to the section of the Criminal Code relating to the use, distribution and production of drugs, which takes experience from France and Germany, or their laws, in the first instance, is the Anti-doping Act, and in the second case, the Anti-doping Act on Medicinal Products, i.e. the marketing of medicinal products and other funds from the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, as a conclusion, I can freely say that this is one of the laws that, first of all, has a social character, does not have that political note that we in parliament are used to discussing regularly. The social importance of passing this law is large and immeasurable, and above all in the development of sport and the stimulation of young people to deal with pure sport and to engage in a worldwide campaign, which is so-called. clean sport, sport without additional stimulation. That's why the DSS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20615	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, submitted the following parliamentary groups with the order of MPs: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus and the Socialist Party of Serbia. We're moving on to a debate according to the list of registered speakers. The first has the word of MP Jovan Todorovic, let MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared, and then MP Vesna Lalic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20616	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the pleasure of having this law on the agenda today, given that, as you know, I am in office as chairman of the Sports and Youth Committee. I regret that this has not happened before, but we also had some other agenda points that made it impossible for the law to prevent doping in sport to come on the agenda earlier. I sincerely hope this is the beginning of the adoption of a set of laws in the field of sports, including the Sport Act itself. As you know, this law on sports is very important, primarily from the point of view of the overall organisation of sports in the Republic of Serbia, from the point of view of funding, material resources, privatisation of sports clubs and societies, etc. In that law, just as far as I know, two provisions mention the question of doping in sports. That is why, regardless of the international obligation, it was very important and necessary to pass such a law in Serbia. My personal point of view is that a doped athlete is actually not a athlete, that it's actually a junkie among athletes. The great responsibility of society as a whole, and especially those dealing with sport in particular, is that at all costs and just like this legislation prevents doping in sports, even in those cases where these stimulants are less harmful or not even harmful to the health of athletes, because the use of stimulative means, doping in sport, among other things, and fraud, and immoral. In any case, it does not serve honor or to doctors who unfortunately prescribe or give athletes these stimulating means, does not serve the honor of coaches or other sports workers, especially athletes themselves. All of us who follow those sports competitions, if we're able to see the extraordinary results of a doping athlete without knowing it, then we're fooled. There is no doubt that it is important to regulate criminal provisions for all perpetrators of such acts. If a broader context is observed, then the fight against doping in sports is actually a fight against drug abuse in society or at least part of that fight. Why? Because the young generation mostly has its role models in these top athletes, in people who represent their country in various competitions, which serve as examples and good examples, i.e. role models for this young generation, but if the athlete achieves results through doping, then it simply concludes that young people could also be users of intoxicating drugs and so on. I remind you that the SPS has established a foundation in time, which has been tasked with persistently and in an organized society to combat drug abuse among young people and against other harmful phenomena, including sects and so on. If we take that aspect of the fight against drug abuse, then the question of doping in sports is in that context, and it should be regulated in this way. It is also believed that the perpetrators of these acts are also subject to penalties taken from the Criminal Code, but that there are offences, or crimes that are criminal and for which prison sentences are threatened. For the sake of the public, I'd like to remind you of a few members of this law relating to the use of doping funds. For example, in Article 46, it is prescribed that athletes who deliberately use a doping agent or deliberately use a certain means or substance in order to cheat doping control will be punished by prison until one year. So, a sportsman who uses a doping agent can be punished by a prison sentence up to one year. Then Article 50 states, in a chapter relating to enabling the use of doping funds, because it is a greater responsibility, which athletes in order to doping in sport are prescribed or issued, or athletes apply doping funds or states, help or otherwise enable athletes to use a doping agent, will be punished by prison from one to ten years. In the next position, he says, which is very important, and I especially insist on that, if the work of the 1st member's position is done towards the minor, and there are many minor athletes, or more persons, but has caused particularly serious consequences, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of at least three years. Finally, when an unauthorized execution, i.e. producing and placing on the market a doping agent referred to in Article 51, there are prescribed prison sentences from six months to five years. It is absolutely certain that these fines must be present in order to already act preventively on all those who would think that doping in sport should be used as a stimulating tool for achieving false and seemingly better results. A colleague, Zarko Obradovic, stated that from 1886, 112 cases of sportsmen under the influence of doping have been recorded, but unfortunately lost their lives. When we spoke with Professor Stanojevic, he was a kind doctor and an acquaintance of the area said that the particularly endangered organs of athletes after the use of liver doping, testicles, kidneys, heart and brain. You don't know what's harder when you have these organs as a consequence. That's why society actually has to do everything to make doping in sport if it's not possible, and if it's not at least to narrow it down to a minimum. According to some of the data that I have come to, Serbia is fortunately a country that on average uses less doping money in its athletes than it is present in the world, but again with one reserve they say, because they say there has been no relevant control of doped athletes over the past ten years and we couldn't complete that data and make sure that it is. It would be great if Serbia had just been the leader of countries in the Balkans and beyond, in curbing doping in sports. In a debate conducted on the Committee on Sports and Youth, we have come to the realization that those amendments relating to the protection of animals from doping should also be accepted. Here for the public's sake, I'll remind you again that in 1666, eight jockeys in England were punished by hanging death for doping their horses. So people were protecting animals at that time. And today we have to protect animals, especially those involved in sports, just to show on these examples that athletes, or people, are our greatest wealth, especially those of our top athletes. There's a doping in amateur sports, but there's less to know about that data. There's a doping in recreationals. Competitions are a miracle. To achieve a better sports result, then many athletes, under the influence of coaches and unfortunately doctors, are subject to the need to use a doping, or stimulant. He's got stimulative assets that don't belong in the doping category. Like coffee. They say caffeine is not banned or even alcohol. But alcohol serves as a stimulant in the shooting or in the shooting industry, as it enables this athlete who shoots at an air rifle, a gun, or arrows to shake hands, or increase his ability to achieve a better result. Although I'm making a little joke, there are athletes who are amateurally involved in this and recreationally doping after the competition. That could be our team of this Serbian parliament, which beat the English team, then doped a little, but it was a little in honor of winning England. Anyway, it's doping and coffee co-worker, I wasn't just thinking about alcohol. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. If I took your thesis, I'm sorry. I'm gonna end up here, so I don't take up unnecessary time. This law was needed by Serbia, we have corrected it by some amendments submitted by all parliamentary groups, discussed it on the Committee on Sports and Youth, and we propose to the National Assembly that it be adopted in the proposed text with the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20617	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Since people are calling for an apology, I apologize to goalie Zeljko Tomic, who certainly did not succumb to this doping. I'm kidding. The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanović has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vesna Lalić, and the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20618	Ladies and gentlemen, the first proposal for a law on sports, in general, regarding the field of sports, is this in this assembly council, and unfortunately I say a little late, but not only this law is necessary, but the law on sport is eventually passed, because unfortunately I have to point out that the sport has been totally ruined since 2000. We have cases where sports clubs are massively eliminated, even league clubs are fusing up, just because financially they can't handle it, and on the other hand we know how young children are prevented from doing sports, because there's no financial conditions for it. Of course, they used to have the right benefits, tax relief privates and financed that sport, however, it was abolished in 2001 and since then we have fallen into a deep crisis. Unfortunately, as a football coach, I am an eyewitness that children, which I have trained, most of them are now not engaged in sports, and unfortunately one number has given up to drug users, so we really need to bring one strategy to the state for the development of sports, and so that we can definitely edit that area because of our children and our future generations. We know that we are in team sports in the world among the first countries and we should admit that we are investing in professional sports, but nothing is invested in amateurs, just a number of people who are more lovers and local self-government where we have people who truly think about it. The SRS argues that we need to arrange the area, prevent doping in sport, and that we need to be rigorous. We already know, and it's been said of this pay phone as we've had cases. We were at the end of the 1990s and Juventus Football Club in Italy, where footballers were found to be doping, and he was eventually a doctor of the football club, etc. There are many cases. We know there have been many deaths. Most of the reasons were doping athletes. I say, we will not fully support this bill for more reasons, not for criticism, but indeed a little too far away here, especially in Article 4. It says that athletes who change their residence have to report to an appropriate alliance, change the address, which means that the athletes, and the ones most responsible, who are our true ambassadors in the world and the only ones who, in the right sense, represent the country in the world, are placed in the position of second-class citizens. Why? They don't have absolute freedom. They are limited here and here you have already made a suggestion that at any time it can endanger his privacy and that there is control at any place where he is and at any time. This means that treating people who are the most responsible that we have the proper status in the world is too inhumane. We know how many of our top athletes are the greatest ambassadors of our country. Not only because we're against the establishment of the agency as an agency, but I must point out that you've looked up to big countries with this agency like France, Germany, Australia, and I'm not counting any further. These are countries that have more athletes than we have residents. Therefore, their state budgets and financial opportunities are far greater than ours and they can afford it. However, we cannot do so and we know for what reasons. We talked about it more than once. Therefore, our proposal is clear, that instead of the agency, it should be an anti-doping committee within the Olympic Committee. Why the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee? Because this is where we bring together all the athletes of the state union Serbia-Montenegro, and here you propose to the Agency of the Republic of Serbia. That means, on the other hand, the minor athletes of Montenegro will not be obliged to be subjected to anti-doping control. What should be pointed out here, that agency will be financed from the budget, which is unacceptable, and the Olympic Committee will therefore have that committee and we will prevent the enormous bureaucracy that you are predicting. Why do I say that? Because the agency will not deal with anything other than these administrative matters, and so can the Olympic Committee. Of course, the laboratory itself that needs this major role to play in all of this has its own superior task of establishing the positivity of these substances that are not allowed by athletes. So, this will be done by laboratories that are at VMA and other health centres in Serbia, they will be able to perform that role, which means that the agency itself will have an administrative role to play and nothing else. So it's absolutely just in this case too much of a suggestion, and we're not saying that to criticise something, but it's really too much of a thing in your proposal. Here, it should be stressed that this legislation is proposed to protect the health of athletes and ultimately animals, and that we should respect that, already in 2003, our foreign minister, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, and which means again for state community athletes. The procedure was respected by signing the declaration in December 2003 and we should stick to it. The Winter Olympics that are in Turin are already going, so that the area can be settled. With these two very important remarks and another number of amendments to the SRS that you need to adopt, the law would indeed have its true appearance. I repeat, we don't need to look up to countries that are very rich, and they can take all of this, so that it doesn't turn out, see a frog sweat, and she's got her feet up. That is why this proposal should be rephrased for much more reasons than I have now stated. It is necessary to highlight the measures to be made. We must be rigorous, so as we have repeatedly stressed, mostly because of the health of athletes, individuals, and equality of athletes who compete, and to protect that sports branch. As far as inspection supervision is concerned, there should be particular emphasis on attention and special procedure, there are cases where inspectors can see things through their fingers and there may be appropriate gaps, especially when it comes to some athletes who play an important role. That's where you need to take the bill into the control area. It should be pointed out that we, as a state, cannot meet all these requirements. What I've emphasized is particularly need to be corrected. Before me, the minister and the SPS gentleman said twice that this proposal had already been postponed. I must point out, we had this proposal on November 8th last year, when our amendments to the Committee on Sports and Youth accepted it, and it happened twice, and that committee failed to do this job that was put before it. Now you've finally done it in a certain way. You've only just come here with this proposal, and unfortunately, it's time to admit that it's time for all of this to be done. So much, since time limits me, and so do other colleagues. Therefore, doping control is necessary. We had an example of an MP this morning, some doping here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20619	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The People's Messenger Vesna Lalić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Natasa Jovanovic, and the Messenger of the people Zeljko Tomic. We're talking about the law on the prevention of doping in sports, but the Assembly is not allowed to wear sports clothes, so I'm asking you to dress properly. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today is the agenda for a bill to prevent doping in sport. He, above all, edits the measures and activities to prevent doping in sports, and since I'm a doctor, a neuropsychiatrist, I wanted to say a few words about the harmfulness of doping in sport. The knowledge of doping has existed from a long time ago. However, the International Olympic Committee, led by the medical commission and several colleagues, began an important and difficult job of focusing on the problems created by using medicines to improve the impact in sport. The international sports community owes in some way great gratitude to the late Mr. Prince Alexander de Meroda, former president of the International Olympic Committee and the Medical Commission and his colleagues for their leading role in this fight against the harmfulness of sports drugs. One of the most effective means in fighting drugs is sports. However, there are plenty of cases where world aces resorted to drug use. Sociologists call this phenomenon a reality fugitive. Permanent mental and physical pressures caused by heavy training and games, a lot of money, a lot of media popularity, are just some of the reasons athletes decide to take the wrong step. When asked if they would take doping if it would help be gold medal winners, imagine colleagues, 90% of athletes said yes. However, 70 percent of the results in top sports are genetics, talent, proper training, healthy and proper nutrition, and good treatment for recovery. The fight against doping should be led in terms of early education. It should be pointed to other proper means, healthy lifestyles, for example, healthy nutrition, adequate rest and preparation, to stress that doping disrupts the human and physical integrity of any athlete. Doping funds are, in fact, medications. It's the most tragic aspect of the whole problem. What helps patients, in sport, has become a means to improve results in an unfair way, to deceive and cheat, and their use leads to catastrophic health consequences. A special group of doctors were created who, working in the field, break all moral and ethical principles for a large profit. It is very expensive to pay a doctor or pharmacist who is able to put together such cocktail doping funds which, combined with some other preparations called blankets, cannot be discovered. A large profit has also a pharmaceutical industry, producing funds often worth over $500 for one treatment. In England, a team of London Drug Fight Centre experts conducted an anonymous survey among athletes and received devastating results: 22 percent of respondents used marijuana, 9 percent ecstasy or speed, 7% enjoyed cocaine, and two percent heroin. I don't have any data for us, but in England, most of the drugs are used by football players. I'd like to say something about young people who don't do professional sports, but recreationally. They often go to the gym so they don't look like a coat on a hanger. In order to increase muscle mass, in addition to exercise and diets full of protein, trainers often recommend various doping drugs that are harmful, especially for young people between 15 and 18 years of age. Medicinal products used in medicine for the treatment of hormonal disorders, when used, are used for doping purposes. Most of the time, it's a sex hormone testosterone. It has an anabolic effect and promotes protein metabolism. During the 15th year, the organism has the most violent hormone reaction, so unetihormones usually block the natural function of testosterone production. This is why testicles atrophy, and already during that period, sterility occurs. One survey was conducted in which, out of 100 gym practitioners, 80 percent doping rehearsals, 50 percent take preparations occasionally, and 30 percent, it's an awful large number, addictive and permanently sterile and impotent. So, of the 100 people who use doping all the time, or occasionally. In the world, anabolics trade has the same treatment as drugs. I'm not sure that's the way it is with us. More anabolic treatment as a cure. The trade in veterinary preparations is even easier. I'd like to say a few words about the harmful effects of steroids. It is, first of all, nausea, vomiting, headache, increased pressure, acne, malignancies, heart function disorder, aggression, irritability, depression, infertility and toxic liver damage, and even cancers, premature closure of the epiphyses of long bones, so that young people before time end growth and remain lower than they would be if they did not use these preparations. In the world, the world's most doping Bob drivers, weightlifters and baseball players, and then cyclists and athletes. A few days or weeks ago, I'm not sure, a cyclist was found dead in bed, so he died in his sleep. Another very important piece of information I'd say. About 25 percent of those who abuse steroids were mentally or physically abused in childhood. They use anabolics, meaning they increase muscle mass because they want to look stronger so that they can defend themselves, or protect themselves from the violent. Cardiovascular disease, early heart attacks, and strokes are very common with athletes 30 years ago if they take steroids. I think we almost had one case on TV when a young footballer in the middle of a game just fell dead in the field. For all of this, it is important that this law and anti-doping agency be formed, which will regulate everything in the field of doping in sport. We will not do anything in society unless a fierce campaign takes place at the national level of educational character, through the media, by participation of athletes, lawyers, doctors, educators and psychologists; goal: to program healthy lifestyles and without risk factors. That's why the G17 plus wants to really support this bill and I think you're all going to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20621	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the MPs of the people prepare Zeljko Tomic and Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has since its establishment advocated that in the society of Serbia, in the most rigorous way, phenomena such as distribution of narcotics, abuse, above all, young people, through one such vision, one such monster in our society, which is one of not only the greatest vices, but the greatest evils that the entire civilized world is fighting against. However, in the world very often athletes, as well as many Hollywood stars, are ahead of the promotion of heavy drugs, if they can be classified as heavy and easy at all. The organisation of this area is necessary in Serbia, with us Serbian radicals having amendments related to the establishment of the agency, when it comes to the law on the prevention of doping in sport. We believe that the SCG Olympic Committee, which worked very well under the patronage of our celebrated basketball player Dragan Kicanovic, who himself stood out in the fight against doping, and who should stand on his feet after his mixing with Philip Cepter, should also take the role of taking over the special committee within the Olympic Committee to ensure that such scandalous phenomena do not occur in our premises and in competitions. But, in general, the Olympic Committee, not this one, but at all, at the Olympic Games, sees such phenomena and allegedly tries to stamp them, however, these are controversial cases and this action should be much larger. I'd like to refer to one current example of the arrival, namely the announcement of US basketball player Herod Henderson's arrival at the Red Star KK, which he played at the Hemopharm, and he played at the Red Star, and went to play for a Greek club. In Greece, because they also have a rigorous test on all kinds of drugs, because they really are all of them, it turned out, while playing in Greece, is positive for marijuana. Then these from our sports mile, and first of all from the "Red Star," they said, "well, that's not so bad," and they said, "marijuana, so what is it? ". You know, when Nenad Canak, who is really constantly on some drugs, behaves like that, and is a friend of one of the biggest drug dealers in Serbia, and does not hide it, but rather boasts and prides, says "it's an easy drug", then no one reacts or pays attention, because they know what he's in and that he's in, and that political option he advocates is the most devastating, with drugs and all the other vices. But one such finding and reactions in the public are actually that, despite being a good basketball player and showing that he knows and can do well, such an example is not good for our youth and for those who are followers of that club, or that by going over it in such a way it reacts in this particular case. Apparently, they explained that it's not a stimulant, but it's like an easy drug. There's no such thing as easy and heavy, they're all drugs, and it has to be fought. After all, the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS, spoke in all pre-election campaigns about the need to strengthen school sports, in professional sport besides various political abuses, should certainly be prevented from doping. You remember that Ljubodrag Duci Simonovic, our celebrated athlete, reacted in 1972 when he said he did not want to play for the team of the SFRJ then because he refused to meet those who use drugs, or doping, on sports grounds, and turned out to be right because Puerto Rican representative later and succumbed to drug use. And he didn't want to play for the team then because he felt that this phenomenon was everywhere and in that particular case he turned out to be right, because even then, thirty and more years ago, he pointed out that it existed and that there was not enough concern and action. Speaking of this serious thing, it is not a joke, but in meeting tomorrow it is serious that it could be suggested that, in addition to sports, anti-doping control be introduced into the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro. Vuk Draskovic could not possibly be positive on the test, i.e. he could not pass as someone who did not enjoy narcotics, and of course the announcement of Zoran Stankovic's election to the new defence minister is suspicious and all other members of the Council of Ministers, because only one on drugs or in some special condition can vote for such a candidate. The one most abuses sports for marketing purposes, which is the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, a model who constantly takes pictures and walks from one sports event to another, is indeed the funniest phenomenon in the true sense of the word, even though it is the President of the Republic. When it comes to a recent event, a disgrace that could happen to an ordinary citizen, let alone the President of the Republic, when Michel Platini arrived in Belgrade, said he must express his admiration for the fact that Platini was a great goalie. Only a man who's on some kind of drug can tell the attacker of one of the celebrated French selectors and Juventus that he was a great goalie. You see, things happen, they get mixed up in sports, and in such a way as the completely ignorant president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and we Serbian radicals think that in addition to total depoliticalisation, and especially professional sport, which is in our society, we must fight and that it is necessary for this area to be settled. However, the establishment of the agency and in order to make fun of Mr Moma Markovic, that those from Vukanovic's party will hire strong people in a newly established agency when there are three, four, will not be enough, it is not a joke but really unnecessary to set up an agency to fight society against this, but a committee in the Olympic Committee, which should stand on its feet and after all the mixing must deal with it. When we submitted the amendment, it is a set of circumstances that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which is related to the doping of animals, I see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the amendment of Ms. Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, it is a member of a parliamentary group that does not fight negative phenomena in society, produced both crime and corruption, the whole Democratic Party, and is only in their head to fight the Serbian radicals, but you know that the people want us and that we are approaching a growing and greater percentage, so that this struggle is in vain. But if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is already almost through the identical text of the amendments, of course later on, I saw that it was the same amendment, it was not good practice. I'm not just talking about this law, and before, when there were other laws, it's especially a case because three times it's going back to the tourism law procedure and if it doesn't want to accept the amendment of Serbian radicals, especially that one, then it needs to say it's going to be a legal-technical redistribution, so that's actually the point. We think that all other amendments to the SRS should be accepted, especially this related to the establishment of the agency, because it is completely unnecessary, with the demand for new funding. The Olympic Committee should do that in the future. I mentioned this case of the arrival of the announced Jerodo Henderson at the Red Star basketball club, and what happened in Greece, as well as the fact that the biggest sports society in our country, the Sports Society Partizan, did not note that such phenomena were happening in sports, are sufficient examples, with the mention of Duzio Simonovic and all of those celebrated our legendary athletes who have advocated their entire lives against doping in sport, that this area is being arranged with the acceptance of the SRS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20623	The People's Messenger Željko Tomic, then the People's Messenger Ivan Radic, then the Messenger Rajko Baralić, if there is a time before the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20624	Honorable MPs, the fight against doping in sports is in the jurisdiction of both national and international sports organisations, both state instance and interstate organisations. It is run both by national and international instruments. The end of the 20th century is marked by a series of activities that should eliminate doping in sport. First, we remember, the adoption of the European Convention against Doping in Sports by the Council of Europe 1989 and the publication of a whole series of recommendations by the Standing Group for the Monitoring of Implementation of the Convention, then a statement from Lozana on Doping in Sports adopted at the World Conference of the IOC in February 1999, and then the entry into force of the new anti-doping rules of the International Olympic Committee in 1999, the creation of an independent world anti-doping agency in 1999, the coordination of anti-doping fighting by the Commission of the European Union, the single request of the European Union Minister for Sport in mid-May 1999 to introduce a two-year minimum penalty for the ban on competition already in the first infringement of the use of illicit funds independent of the guilty athletes. In early 2003, the World Anti-doping Code was adopted, and the World Anti-doping Convention by UNESCO is about to be adopted. The first more serious attempts at doping defined at interstate level were made by the Council of Europe in 1963, whose efforts to prevent doping in sport were given their full expression in the 1989 European Convention against Doping in Sports. According to the convention, the term "doping in sports" means prescribing athletes or using by athletes of pharmacological means or methods of doping. As is known, our country is a signator of this convention. The World Anti-doping Code adopted in Copenhagen in 2003 gives a general definition of doping that is uniquely applied worldwide. All international sports alliances have aligned their anti-doping rules with the provisions of the Code and have fully accepted their rules the definition given in that Code. In this respect, the law on the prevention of doping in sport is fully in line with the world's anti-doping code. From the point of view of the comparative right in the field of sport is generally prohibited: the use of doping by athletes, citing, helping or encouraging athletes to use doping, supplying, copying, giving or applying doping, creating conditions for the use of doping, producing and placing on the market of funds containing illicit substances in order to facilitate doping. The prohibition, as a rule, does not cover production, placing on the market and providing funds, in particular drugs containing prohibited substances, provided that these actions are taken to treat certain diseases. Circumstances and behaviours which constitute infringements of the anti-doping rules are detailed in the provisions of Article 2. The world's anti-doping code, and the proposed Article 3 of this law on the prevention of doping in sport, fully complies with the World Anti-doping Code prohibitions. What needs to be pointed out here in particular is that it is the obligation of every athlete to personally convince himself that any medicine, replacement for medicine or any other preparation does not contain a prohibited substance. It is his duty to ensure that no forbidden substance enters his body for any reason. The bill, in accordance with the World Anti-doping Code, adopts the so-called rule. strict responsibilities. According to that rule, an anti-doping rule has always been committed and whenever a banned substance is found in a physical sample of athletes. The offence was committed, whether the athlete deliberately or intentionally used the forbidden substance or committed an offence by default or error. If a positive sample is obtained by testing the competition, then the results of the competition are automatically cancelled. At that time, however, the athlete has the possibility to avoid or reduce the penalty if he shows that he has not sinned or has not made a significant mistake, or that he is not guilty of doping or at least has not been treated with rude negligence. The use or attempt to use a prohibited substance or a banned method has been defined in all anti-doping rules of sports Federations as a basic anti-doping offence. Thus, in the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport under use, the application of entry, injection or consumption in any way of the prohibited substance or the prohibited method is understood. The success or failure of using a forbidden substance or a banned method is not important. In order for this anti-doping rule to be committed, it is sufficient that the banned substance or that the banned method was used or that there was an attempt to be used. Proveing the attempt to use a forbidden substance requires proof of the sportsman's intentions. In the end, I would remind myself that without doping, I could achieve excellent results and be worthy of representing the state. A good example is the Serbian parliament's football selection, which without any stimuli, has brought first and severe defeat to English colleagues of 5-1. Supporting the adoption of the law on the prevention of doping in sport, I call on all MPs to unanimously support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20625	Thank you, Mr. Tomic, with one correction – without any unauthorized stimuli, otherwise it was allowed. The word has a National MP Ivan Radic, then a National MP Rajko Baralić, and then a National MP, Zoran Antic, but I think we'll have a break before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this bill was sent to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004, means, a little less than a year, it was expected that the Ministry had in mind that the Assembly was proposing and passing a basic law from this area, or the law on sport. However, it is obvious that the sports mafia in our country has so much taken hold that it is likely that the Ministry is intimidated by the fact that the law will enable the sports mafia, which is obviously working to destroy the most professional sports collectives in our country, or Serbia, to buy them for small money after the adoption of such law, so that this makes some sense on that side. On the other hand, this law practically looks like a shell-free cover to me, but in any case, it is absolutely necessary for every country, including Serbia. What the SRS resents the promoter is what extends through all the laws that we had in this assembly, which is the introduction of some parallel institutions in bodies that already exist in our country. In particular, this applies to the anti-doping agency that is provided for by this bill, and that is what my predecessors have said, but I simply can't help but look back. The SRS' stance is that the job could have been properly conducted by the anti-doping committee at the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee, which is in some sense normal, and logically and expected to have done so in this bill. The Minister's explanation, which is not present in the hall, at yesterday's session of the Youth and Sports Committee, is that the practice of most developed European countries is that there is a separate anti-doping control agency, and even if there is even a global anti-doping agency, I don't think it is drinking water at the moment because all these listed countries are not facing problems facing Serbia. They don't have a million unemployed, they don't even have a robbery privatisation. They do not have poverty and poverty knocked on every other door, with pensioners not facing social misery, so it is savings in the budget wherever possible recommended, and this bill does not achieve it. We see that this agency, therefore, will have a board of directors, board of directors and anti-doping committees. So it's going to be the organs where you put your party personnel, it's seen from members of the law that are slightly undefined, where you're not specifically saying what these members are supposed to be doing and from which areas they're supposed to come from. Article 32 says that the Anti-doping Agency's board has 15 members, and I would now remind Mr. Voikan Tomic, who said that this law does not have a political note, and this article just shows that this law has a political note, because of the 15 members who make up the Anti-doping Agency's board, eight are appointed by political authorities. Five people appointed a sports minister, two people appointed a health minister, one person named Serbia's Supreme Court. It's theoretically possible that they're people who have absolutely nothing to do with sports, I guess that's not going to happen, and that's what's weird, because in this agency, they should still be narrowly professional people who have something to do with this problem. Also, Article 35 states that members of the anti-doping agency must be prominent experts in the relevant areas. It's an unspeakable member of the law. What are the appropriate areas? I think the legislator here had to explain it a little more specifically, given that we have witnessed a number of abuses in various bill proposals so far. I think it's perfectly normal for this suspicion of an SRS MP. The Supervisory Board also numbers five members, five of them two appointed a sports minister, one appointed a health minister. So, again, most of these members can be people who have nothing to do with sports. Another thing is important here to say, regarding the financing of the anti-doping agency, it is said to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also point 2) says "from the donation of contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and physical persons". Since sport is among the most profitable branches, i.e. one of the biggest businesses in the world today, I think this funding, i.e. a donation from foreign legal and physical persons, could be somewhat misused, i.e. it might lead to some kind of anti-doping control agency. I'm saying again, we're hoping it won't happen, but I repeat, since sports today is one of the biggest businesses in the world, where a large amount of money is turning, I think it should have been taken care of when one such item was put into law. In any case, there needs to be a law to prevent doping in sports. The amendments to the SRS have not been adopted and I must correct Mr. Vuksanovic, who said that practically all amendments have entered the text. Unfortunately, amendments to the SRS were not accepted, and most of them related to the principled attitude of Serbian radicals that some parallel bodies should not be invented besides those that exist. Or, specifically, a new agency, and all of this could have been carried out by the Anti-doping Control Committee on the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20627	Thank you, Mr. Radic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Antic, then a National MP, Vesna Obradovic, but I think it will be after the break. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is absolutely certain that we need this law. The law on the prevention of doping in sport is not problematic, we live in a time when chemical resources are increasingly used in various areas of sport. As far as the SRS is concerned, this part of the law relating to the need and the introduction of control and doping in sports, it all stands. What bothers us a lot is that this law didn't go with the law on sports. The sport law was supposed to precede the drug prevention law. The fact is that we also have an unsettled situation in sports, that we had this sport law a year ago in the congregation procedure, but it hasn't come to the agenda yet. The Doping Act was supposed to be a follow-up to the Sports Act. I think we have a lot of problems in sports that are not solved, these are organisational problems, infrastructure problems, ownership and infrastructure, in which way we will privatise in sport, whether it will remain the association of citizens, whether it will be an enterprise, for which solutions the Ministry advocates, all of this is unfortunately not available to us and we cannot see the overall concept of some policy, strategy in sport. I think it's the biggest drawback when it comes to the Ministry of Education and Sports. In these areas, only the Ministry should do much more. As far as doping is concerned, the industrial concept of sport is evident, that the concept is increasingly taking over sport, that it's a fair play in the second plan, that the struggle with athletes is much more important than the fact that athletes today last shorter than they used to do, that they're spending more and more. In the end, I would say a few words about the SRS arguing that this agency, proposed, be within the Olympic Committee. My fellow MPs spoke of it. We believe that without one comprehensive insight into the concept of sports strategy in the future, we cannot accept another agency. There's no need to tell you about the personal consumption she took and how she's waving in our country. I think rationalization in sports is just as important, that so far it's not given enough attention. The issue of municipal and regional alliances has not been defined, in which way top sports will be organised. So he's got a lot of problems. It goes with some partial solutions that won't fix the situation in sports. I call on the ministry to deal significantly more seriously with the problems of sport in the future and to have all those laws, which are necessary for this area to be organised in the future, in front of MPs. That way, I'm sure that the good results that we've had in the previous years and decades, we could continue. Otherwise, we'll be in a position to slow down our sport, but surely, it's going down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20629	Thank you, Mr Antic. Please announce that we will now have a break by 14.55 hours. After the break, we'll continue to work until the principle debate of the item on the agenda is over by 6:00 p.m. There will be no session tomorrow, and the session will continue, due to the importance of the law, on Monday, October 24th. After the break, the People's MP Vesna Obradovic will first have the word, followed by MP Sulejman Spaho, followed by Milica Vojic-Markovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day and welcome. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. We continue in the order of the MPs who applied for the debate in the principled search, and I hope you agree, as Mr Baralic, who came to the end, just before the break, was not present when he was ordered. So, the first word has the MP Rajko Baralic, MP Sulejman Spaho, and then the MP Vesna Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20631	I thank you, Mr. President, for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected ministry gentlemen, Dr Zarko Obradovic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and Jovan Todorovic as an authorised representative, expressed our views on the law dealing with doping, that is, the prevention of doping. I would just focus on these few amendments that my colleagues have submitted, and I thank you for that, and they refer to animals. It's very important to prevent the possibility that humans abuse animals in this way. This primarily refers to horse sports, racial throats, American butcher and English galloper, but also other animals. Unfortunately, mindless people are full. Animals that are unable to defend themselves are living laboratories for testing on hypodromics and other battlefields of people who are eager to make easy or fast profits, which is a rare case, or prestigious by winning their throats or their pets' contests. I want to say with full responsibility that at this point in Serbia, although there are about six to seven hundred throats, I am talking about horses of the English full-blooded and American butcher, there is absolutely no way to control whether animals are being stimulated or otherwise resourceful and thus achieve the results that are being shown as real. Why is this important? When an animal, I'm talking about horses, based on the use of illicit means, or on the use of illicit means, wins a result that is false, because such animals later participate in reproduction, then false champions are created and a circle is closed that creates an illusion that the best selection is performed and that in the best possible way is provided to people who love animals and love horse racing and other competitions in which horses participate, to have real and best champions. And it is often not known that it is animals that are subject to torture, abuse and which, as you know, enter the country in a way that is completely irregular, without a quarantine of six months, without a whole series of other things that exist in other countries. That is why I advocate that all amendments that help to be accepted in Belgrade's hypodromics, but also other hypodromics in the country, are organised by controls that need to be brought to perfection. Because it really doesn't make any sense, the horse is both a status symbol and one of the most beautiful, furthest animals, very attached to man through history, that here's tycoons, eager for fast wealth and rapid fame, misusing animals in the worst possible way, achieve the results that are actually treated as false results, or we have to treat them as false, because it's not a product of training, nor of selection, but a product of giving funds that are often very fatal both for health and for animal life. We've heard these days that other animals are subject to it, such as certain types of dogs, some other ones somewhere in Banat, the fight of geese, roosts, human incomprehension and human folly, is actually immeasurable when it comes to this matter. All those who do so should be severely sanctioned, and this law is a good opportunity to do so. She spoke of today's distinguished colleague also about the means used in humans and, what is most frightening, all of these means by definition are medicines, and those who use them abuse them completely against doctrine, intent, contrary to doses, everything that is related to this and do immeasurable damage. Sports is a synonym for health. When we say sport, we mean from green fields and children who run and deal recreationally or at some higher level of sport to top-notch sports, it involves a long way of life, a philosophy that is totally acceptable and acceptable to parents and society. On the other hand, we have unreasonable people, hohstapplers, who, for the reasons I've already listed here, abuse human health, children, and thus create one false picture of human possibilities, about the endurance of the human body, the speed, the gypsies, about what else. We should do it as responsible people all and thank you for this law in the process, which we will accept as I see it. I thank all those who have helped Serbia settle into those countries that will be able to control this and discipline those who abuse it rigorously. It is very important, colleagues today had very clear examples, what is being threatened in this way and how it is possible, above all, for a large number of people to become enormously rich, without having in mind the fatal consequences that they can have for the health of 15-year-olds and generations of older age. There's a way to carry out control. I appeal to all those who are in these bodies to do everything in their power not to compromise the law and to compromise the organs that will be established, therefore, institutions, institutions that will exercise control over what we are defining here today by law. If that doesn't work out, we'll compromise and ruin both good opportunities and good intentions. I believe that we will agree on this in the future, and that we will have mechanisms to go through the Sports Committee, and in other ways we get reports of how all this works. Otherwise, we're risking a lot more than you can imagine at this point. Also, this is an opportunity, used this argument and Mr. Jovan Todorovic, our MP and authorised representative, it is important to say that professional sports have virtually no obligation for participants to submit an antidoping test. That's why they are professional, and it should be known that those people who opt to participate in professional boxing, in the NBA league, in many other competitions, in tennis, that they consciously agree, I don't have any problem saying that for a pay phone, to be treated for what the club owner thinks is important that they achieve a better result. Our interest is amateur sport. I hope we don't have that kind of situation in this country. The law is a good opportunity to reach these proportions and not come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20632	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Obradović be prepared, then the Messenger of Milivoje Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about doping in sports, I'd like to speak to the gentleman, and I'm not going to mention his name, because he doesn't deserve it. He doesn't deserve to be false about the SRS and their members who are other nationalities and religions. I, Spaho Suleiman, stand before you and I am proud to be a member of the SRS and a Serbian radical. Our Dr. Vojislav Seselj - normally, I will respect and love my people and who I belong to - respected and appreciated national minorities. We're looking for his release as soon as possible. (From O.R.: Theme. The theme will be. I'd also like to ask the gentleman and all the others from the party that scares the national minorities from the SRS, that's the past. No one's afraid of the SRS anymore, and I'm proud to say they're joining the SRS quite a number of national minorities. What can I say, why Serbian radicals and why they come to the SRS of national minorities: because the only salvation they see in the SRS. I will refer to some segments to which attention should be paid. Since there's been a sport, it'll always have the use of unauthorized funds, sometimes less and sometimes more. Especially where athletes have ambitions in some big competitions, such as world championships, Olympics and other competitions. And in order for them to participate in these competitions, they must meet the standards. Those athletes who are one foot up to that norm and cannot meet it, they use doping or illicit funds. It is interesting that great athletes, who want to break world records and win gold medals in these competitions, use doping. What we need to worry about is that we use and use illicit means in smaller sports, i.e. Doping. The reason is that there is no control in these competitions. That should increase control, and that should be done by those who run clubs. In these ranks, particularly young athletes begin to take illicit funds, which is a prerequisite for using classical drugs. Before each competition season, a competitor has to go through a doctor's examination, and that's twice a year. It should be more than once. These checks, when more controlled, could sooner determine the use of these funds. Today's sport has made so much progress that athletes from 13 and 15 years of age become top athletes. It happens that young athletes take doping. That is why all together, and especially the organisation dealing with this problem, we need to make more efforts to curb this phenomenon in sport. This is important, one of the institutions that should have a positive impact on this phenomenon is school. The school should put in its plan a lecture on doping in sport. This kind of work would reduce the use of unauthorized funds. Teachers and teachers in particular, those who teach physical education, must be familiar with this subject in order to influence young generations who are just beginning to play sports. They are the most measured to guide them into a sport that is clean, without the use of illicit means, which negatively affect the health of athletes, especially those who are just beginning to engage in sports. We need to create strong institutions that will deal only with this problem, because that's all we have left to root out this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20634	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. The word has a National MP Vesna Obradovic, then a National MP to Milivoje Vukovic, then a National MP to Milica Vojić-Marković. Here you go, Mrs. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20635	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the G17 supports this law, and we really needed it, and above all to cultivate clean sport and preserve the health of all our athletes, and above all, the health of generations. Drugs in sports and the fight against drugs have always been and will be a topic for discussion. To be better, faster, and more successful than rivals, athletes often turn to illicit means. In addition to sport being one of the most effective means of combating this deadly vice, unfortunately many world aces are not only using, but also reselling drugs. Drugs became more or less an integral part of every top athlete. What exactly is doping? It started with that increase in ability in an artificial way, so it's not allowed to exceed the natural level of the hormone, so today it's determined that doping is all that's on the list of banned substances. The list is constantly changing, complementing new banned preparations year after year. Doping today involves the use of any foreign substance in large quantities in modern sports, in order to artificially increase labour and sports skills. It is known that stimulants involve various substances that increase speed, reduce fatigue and increase the desire for competition. Don't lie to yourself, doping isn't the invention of modern times. The data on the use of illicit sports resources goes all the way to ancient Greece. It has been shown that in order to achieve the best results in the Olympic Games, ancient Greeks have used certain types of mushrooms, seeds, animal organs. The Aztecs used human organs. In an attempt to achieve better results, human imagination is inconceivable. In recent history, in the last century, the greatest abuses of athletes, especially athletes, have been recorded in favour of politics. In the former Soviet Union there was a widespread very unusual method. What's this about? One of the characteristics of the female body is that during the first three months of pregnancy, just before the observed weight gain, she suffers a hormonal change. Growth in the hormone leads to an increase in blood cells, developing lung capacity enables better oxygenation of the muscles. This short period of increased body power tried to exploit many coaches. This terrible method was kept in complete secrecy until 1994, and it is that athletes fertilized before the competition, to bring their capacities to maximum capacity, and then forced them to abortion, so that they could continue training. Athletes, without forgetting that many were 15-year-olds, were forced to sleep with their coaches. At the Melburn Olympics in 1956, of the 26 Soviet medals, 10 were brought by women in a different state. This extremely perfidious method has proved to be essentially a little cost-effective. Two months of extra energy is not enough to keep the sports facilities at maximum level. Male hormones have proven to be much more stimulating the aggression of competitors and the conquest of medals. With steroids and anabolics on the market, women have been given the opportunity to keep doping, not just during major competitions. Steroids and anabolics enable increased intensity, rhythm training, stimulate will and aggression, move the fatigue threshold, increase resistance to pain and stress, and, if monitored by a protein diet, increase muscle mass. On the other hand, the effects of steroid use can be frightening. Steroids can lead to renal, hepatic impairment, swelling, heart fatigue, mood disorder, crisis associated with increased violence, etc. steroid rage, changes in sexual desire and ultimately addiction. Since 1970, we've entered a terrible era. Women doped with steroids, anabolics, became women mutants, who are neither women nor men. The appearance of that third sex caused astonishment and horror. It was only during the end of the cold war and the collapse of communism that an avalanche of charges was launched in the countries of Eastern Europe because of the illicit use of stimulative funds. The government of East Germany, seeking to prove communist superiority, has consciously supported the secret plan of systematically doping athletes. The steroids and anabolics were made in Germany, combined with vitamin pills, given to young people, especially girls aged 12 to 24. After excellent results, it became clear that doping works best just when it comes to women's sex. During the period from 1974 to 1989, East German athletes caused envy around the world, after winning 570 Olympic medals, of which 160 gold and almost 3,500 world and European records. The athletes and their parents did not know about the terrible crimes they were exposed to daily, had no information about the side effects, and the effects were devastating: 142 athletes and swimmers proved serious physical damage in court. One of them is Katarina Mensner, a former wonder of East Germany swimming in freestyle. She was constantly taking 40 tablets a day, reportedly, vitamins and minerals, from 12 to 24 years of age, as the coaches assured her. In fact, it was anabolic steroids, male hormones. The price is catastrophic. Her spine was so damaged that she had to wear corset all the time to stand upright. Some of her colleagues gave birth to children with severe physical deformities. Brigit Dres died when she was 26 years old from overuse of drugs and drugs. Petra Schneider, former swimming champion at the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow, had heart problems and severe liver disease. Her body was completely destroyed by steroids. For many steroids, sexual identity has been destroyed. Today it is known that individual products in just a few seconds can question sexual identity, so we had mutant women in that period. The names of athletes who became men are also known: Pole Stella Valesivich, French Lea Karla and Claire Bresol, Russian Sisters Irina and Tamara Pres. All of them became men, some of them even model husbands. They were all victims of a doping campaign sponsored by the state, which sought to obtain Olympic gold as a confirmation of communist superiority. After the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the opening of documents by the secret police, it was confirmed that East German athletes were receiving unauthorized chemical aid, and that the government knew what health risks they were carrying and knowingly supported this programme. The programme covered 10,000 athletes, adolescents, and even children from 1974 to 1989. In the 1990s, the fight against the use of doping funds increased, and the results of sports competitions began to decline slowly. It was thought that the terrible era of mutant women was over. But at the 1994 World Cup, the Chinese broke five records and took 12 out of the 16 gold medals. Some of their coaches were from Eastern Europe. In the '90s, the growth hormone came in. At the time, it was impossible to detect him in the urinal analysis. That this hormone led to an increase in the face, jaw, leg, arm, was not so important compared to the results achieved. Interestingly, the jaws and teeth of athletes and one and the other sex became much more pronounced when the growth hormone began to be used as a doping. Doping is present almost in all sports, but is the most related to endurance sports, such as cycling, athletics, where the use of illicit means and the most massive and increasingly normal phenomenon. At the Olympic Games in Rome in 1960, Danish cyclist Knut Jensen died during the race, resulting from the use of amphetamines. A similar fate struck British cyclist Tommy Simson during "Tur d'Frans" in 1967, again for taking too much anabolic resources. John McInroe admitted six years unconsciously taking steroids, otherwise a three-time Wimbledon winner, so doping also binds to tennis, although there is no need for anti-doping control. Football is the most famous case we've ever heard here – Diego Maradona, who, after several positive anti-doping tests, is prohibited from participating in football games. The use of banned substances in sports has been a very hot topic in the last 10-15 years in the media. Each Olympics is under some unwritten rule followed by doping affairs and Medals, so often we can't be sure who is the final winner, until the final results of the anti-doping tests are obtained. The first and most likely biggest affair broke out in Seoul in 1988, when Ben Johnson won 100 meters and set a world record. However, gold was given to legendary Carl Lewis, since Johnson was positive for anabolic steroids. Seven medals were taken away in Athens, and twenty athletes were caught, and who knows how many more of them got through. Greece faced a major doping affair last year, whose actors are its athletes yesterday: the Olympic champion from Sydney at 200m Costas Kennethris and the silver medal winner at the Ekaterini Tano Olympics. Lately in fashion is anabolic nandrolon. Only for a year was found in 350 cases, and among sinners is our Dragutin Topic. Excessive use of Nandrolon can lead to kidney, jaundice, and cancer. This substance can also negatively affect the cardiovascular system, lead to an increase in poor cholesterol, or even a heart attack. As secondary cases, there are cases of diabetes, epilepsy and hypertension. We've often had autotransfusion with us. Sportsmen freeze a certain amount of blood during altitude preparations, and high-octane, and save it for the day of the race or the game. This procedure allows them to be in the best shape when needed. This way artificially increases red blood cell counts relative to haematocrit. The problem is that this procedure entails certain risks, can cause allergic reaction, damage to the kidneys, cause fever and jaundice, carry infectious diseases, burden the circulation and lead to metabolic shock. However, as this type of doping has proved to be dangerous, various pharmaceutical houses have immediately joined in helping, which are constantly searching for new and new preparations that will move the limits of the human body’s endurance. The latest method of increasing red blood cell count is epo-hormon. It is a hormone that is normally produced in the kidneys, and its role in the body is to increase the haemoglobin in the red blood cells and is responsible for the binding and transmission of oxygen. It is especially popular among cyclists and in endurance sports. The cyclists were the first victims of epo-hormon. Over 20 cyclists died between 1997 and 2000 as a result of stroke, heart attack and pulmonary embolism. All these unpleasant events are due to the fact that the increase in haematocrit above normal increases the density, viscosity of blood, and therefore there is a risk of blockage of blood vessels in the brain, heart or lungs. After these relentless events, the International Olympic Committee has strictly banned the use of this preparation. Sports spirit is a fundamental virtue of sport and is characterized by the following values: ethics, fair-play, honesty, health, exceptional achievements, character, education, teamwork, dedication, respect for rules and laws, respect for yourself and other participants, communities and solidarity. The use of doping is essentially contrary to the above basic principles and values of modern sport and represents its harsh abuse. A doping athlete not only endangers his health but also general social interests, in the need to protect competition and equality in the competition, and the validity of the sports branch itself. The fight against doping is a very important aspect of the intention to promote and preserve a fair-play game. To this end, the government sent this bill to the Assembly. It aims to protect, above all, the health of athletes, to preserve the equality of competition and the credibility of the sports branch, and these goals can only be achieved if energetic and decisive measures are taken against doping in sport. The law provides for as many as a year in prison for a athlete who knowingly uses a doping agent in a sports competition. If it is discovered that a sportsman is using doping will be suspended from one year of sports competitions for the first infringement of anti-doping rules, two years for the second injury and permanently if it is repeated for the third time. Prisons from six months to five years are scheduled for all those who manufacture, process, sell or offer such funds, as well as for those who illegally prescribe medicines containing these prohibited substances. Any athlete who helps to obtain a doping asset or induces it and encourages it to use it, according to the bill, will also be punished by prison from one to 10 years. The legislator, in addition to the criminals, provides for other criminal penalties for sports alliances, organisations and other legal entities if they supply athletes with illicit doping. These and many other criminal provisions include all those who work with athletes and who are in their environment, of whom ethical behaviour is expected to be minimal. The delusion was that only sports organisations could fight it. For the past ten years, we haven't had any control over doping, which doesn't mean that the doping in reality wasn't there. This is what the cases of doping Yugoslav athletes at the international competition testify to, so we had an affair with our water poloists. The law stipulates that athletes and others who require it must and actively participate in doping control, that they cannot avoid it. Doping control is a process that includes planning test schedules and these tests can either be at the time of some game, the Olympics, some sporting event, announced or even unannounced. A sportsman who deliberately opposes doping control or avoids it, i.e. incapacitated, subject to sanctions as if he had been positive on the doping test. Moreover, sanctions are subject to and attempts by athletes to disable doping control even when the doping test is negative. With this legislation, the Republic of Serbia is determined to deal with doping in sport, the G17 supports this law, and I don't think there are any parties in this house that will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20636	The word has a folk MP, Dr Milivoje Vukovic, and let the MP Milica Vojic-Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are one of the European and world forces in sports, so it is good that one of these laws is on the agenda of this assembly. So we should be involved in European and world sports flows, and one of the important moments is the adoption of a law to prevent doping in sport. Indeed, all young people need to be able to fight sports and knightly in the field without additional stimulative means. I'd refer to some things that precede this antidoping control. Many young people want to get to sports fame very quickly and by not choosing the means. I think there's a gap and we've failed at all levels. First and foremost is youth education, which is to start from primary school and is already being told at that level about the harmfulness of stimulants on such young organisms. There's a large number of gyms where young people go to get to the athletic body building as soon as possible, where they start using steroids that are very harmful and fatal to youth health. That control should be much better on the amateur level because it begins with various abuses. But the amateur clubs don't care about the health of athletes, so it's a public secret that sports registrations are certified without adequate reviews, and that's why tragic cases happen on sports grounds. I realize that many amateur clubs can't pay for all the checks, but it's essential that every participant in the competition. A athlete must be healthy and only a healthy psychic and physical organism can compete and achieve world record. Therefore, I think it is also a great responsibility for these unconscious doctors who are certifying the registration of athletes without prior examination. I think that's where the controls should be done and the responsible persons should be properly punished, because when the tragedy comes, it's too late, and then no one's to blame. Unauthorized funds are also used in animal sports, for example in horse sports. The anti-doping control and responsibility should be used drastically because the animal is unable to defend against the illicit means to be given to it, as horse racing and competition have become a very lucrative business where it is well earned, and no funds are chosen to win. There are more and more businessmen turning to horse sports, so they import racial throats, and then, with the doping of animals, they make wins and profits, all under the cover that they are lovers of animals and horse sports. Just about doping animals in sports, Ms. Jovanovic of the SRS has submitted an amendment that the minister and government have rejected. I wonder why? Is it just because the amendment comes from the SRS? Also, my colleague's amendment, Nemanje Sarovic, was not accepted, and he is much better than the text of the law. In Article 6(2), the words "the measure can be said" are replaced by the words "it will be given a measure". I really don't know why Mr. Minister didn't accept that amendment and I wonder why this dilemma and the words "can be said" don't be replaced. We're clear and we say, "His measure will be expressed." That's more specific and clearer. Yesterday I was on the Sports and Youth Committee and I heard the minister's explanation about this amendment. He said that in many European countries they are much more flexible and, they say, they interpret it so if they find illegal funds in the pocket or a bag of athletes, and he did not use them, so the possibility of "can" be expressed. Now, here we are from the SRS, saying that he should be given a measure without the "can" because I am now asking Mr. Minister: what will a sportsman do with an unauthorized asset in his pocket or bag if that is forbidden? By that logic, then all drug dealers shouldn't be punished if they don't use that drug and if it's found in their pocket. If we want to be honest, then the formulation of counterpart Sarovic is much better and more precise. Once again, I ask Mr. Minister: why would a sportsman in his pocket have an illicit means if it's forbidden, and would that athlete at one point be tempted to use it to achieve a better result and glory, and then everything else that goes along with it? So it's an attack on his brain, if he knows that this means he can achieve a better result, and that's why he can't concentrate on what he's doing, and then the disappointments are great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20638	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Let MP Sveto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, has been almost a year since the bill on the prevention of doping in sports was withdrawn from the regular procedure. I happen to remember the date, it was November 2, 2004. What do I mean by this? I mean, in fact, it's perfectly clear to me that this bill on the prevention of doping in sport isn't politically attractive, but like most of our citizens, I find it very necessary, and here I think of all those citizens who in any way have contact with sports, whether they are active competitors, trainers, sports officials, whether they are engaged in sports in one recreational way or are just passive fans and observers. Why is it necessary for this law to be passed? First of all, for two reasons. Once we adopt this law, we will become part of a large family of European peoples, who have already accepted this code as something that is normal and natural, and thus we will be able to participate in all major and small competitions, starting with world, European, Balkan and the like. But, and that's another reason, it's very important that we adopt it because then we can appear as a competitor who wants to host these big competitions. In addition, I think it is very important that this law be passed because sport has long ceased to be what it is. If we look at how the Greeks understood sports as something that was competing with themselves, and to compete with another, but in order to beat the one who was more quality, who was more talented, who was more willing, the sport simply stopped being all that. He became an industry, a business, not to use a more difficult word, and I could use it, because like most of our citizens, I was in a position to watch our celebrated basketball player and later writer, Ljubo Duzio Simonović, who in his books very well and very precisely exposed the machine that is being built around sports and sportsmen, with only one motto being offered out of the whole story, which is - win or die. The improvement of physical abilities with the help of pharmacological substances is an old human obsession and need. Back in ancient times, in sports competitions, stimulating substances were used to gain advantage and facilitate victory. The reconstruction of the Olympic Games has again updated the use of various stimulating substances in sports competitions, allowing the development of pharmacology to produce until then unknown substances. To what extent such substances were used until the 1960s, when their ban began, can only be guessed. Only fatalities during the competition forced the Olympic Committee to access the ban on stimulant, first stimulant and narcotics, and eventually other substances and to introduce different doping methods. The direct cause of the anti-doping ban was the death of cyclist Tom Simpson in 1967 in the race through France. The cause of death was that of taking amphetamines in fruit with extreme temperature loads. To date, if I've picked up this data correctly, 112 athletes have died using conscious or unconscious doping in any way. Doping is, unfortunately, a constant follower of modern sports. As a result of the development of techniques, doping controls and the increase in the coverage of doping controls, the use of banned doping substances and the method has been significantly reduced. Rigorous doping control in sports competitions from 1972 to 1984 led to less than one percent of athletes doping positive on the doping test. Since 1984, a rise in the use of doping has been observed again. The use of doping substances has become a significant companion and certain forms of recreational sport, especially I have to say when it comes to fitness and be building activities. The basic problem with these sports activities lies in a fairly stretching difference between the permitted appliances, i.e. preparations for designing, supplemental diet and doping steroids. All those who read one of these magazines that deals with any of these types of recreation can notice a sea of ads that are currently offering different forms of doping under a coat of improved nutrition, better quality nutrition, under a coat of resources that will help shape the body and the like. Amongst the frequent preparedness to take various supplemental diets to quickly reach the desired appearance of the body and switch to the use of doping substances is a very small step. With poor information and often mutual encouragement, trainers become easy prey of advertising prospectuses of various means, which rarely contain doping substances. According to research, there are four basic reasons for using doping in top sports. The first is enormous pressure on the athlete to achieve the best possible results. This pressure arises, above all, from the circumstances that in international national and even regional competitions, attention is paid only to those who stand on the winning stand and who have achieved an unusual result. Only those athletes get medals, media and public attention, and therefore sponsorship contracts which, we have to admit, is one of the biggest problems of sport. The second is, top-notch sport has become business and industry, where there is constant pressure behind the result. Funding sport activities, which became a professional athlete, is only possible with top sports performance. The third thing is that doping a single athlete and the result he achieves by taking this doping increases the pressure on other athletes, therefore, that they also use doping if they want to win. The fourth thing is, sports medicine has proved that already one percent of the impact increase brings benefits and benefits. The peak results, of course, can be achieved by not using any doping, but their achievement lasts a little longer, although the results last longer. I'd like to say a few words about the substances used at this time. Amphetamines, ephedrines, and similar substances are able to increase human ability, or result. Moreover, top-notch sport is an important burden on their use. Unfortunately, many reports have shown that the use of doping has spread to recreational sports, especially fitness centres. All participants in sports and sports are expected to have a minimum of ethical behaviour, which obliges to maintain physical and mental health and partnership. Doping represents a negation of the basic values of sport and the fight against it is the task of all who want sports well. The intensification of the fight against doping in recent years has won its main term in the adoption of the World Anti-doping Code at the World Conference on Combating Doping in Sports, held in Copenhagen in 2003. According to the code, sports alliances and sports organisations, including the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee and the national sports alliances, were to comply with their acts with the provisions of the Codex. Since the start of the Athens Olympics and until the start of the 2006 Winter Olympics in Italy, the UNESK should be adopted by the countries of the World Anti-doping Convention, which would form the World Anti-doping Code. On the agenda of the UNESCO session, which starts in a few days, there is also the adoption of the World Anti-doping Convention. According to the World Anti-doping Code, by the start of the winter Olympics, countries that support the fight against doping in sport are expected to adopt a proper legal regulation aimed at preventing doping in sport. Sportsmen from countries whose sports alliances do not implement the Codex provisions cannot participate in the Olympics, and countries that do not support the Codex cannot compete for major sports competitions on their territory. Supporting the implementation of the World Anti-doping Programme and the activities of the World Anti-doping Agency, with the determination to fulfil the commitments undertaken by ratification of the European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia has undertaken a full series of measures over the past two years, which should be the basis of the fight against doping in our sport. These measures include the adoption of a law on the prevention of doping in sport, whose proposal is ahead of us, establishing and formalising co-operation with the World Anti-doping Agency and a permanent group to monitor the European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in the Sports of the Council of Europe, the project - doping in sport, which is working with the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, the Department of Sports Medicine, the signing of the Copenhagen Declaration, the education on disease of addiction and doping in the framework of sports schools and camps programme, which has passed over 6,000 perspective athletes. A few more words about this law. The law, whose proposal is before us, unlike the Sport Act, which contains only one general remark of the type - doping is not allowed, is extremely good and precise. He edits the measures and activities to prevent doping in sport, precises all cases in which there is a breach of anti-doping rules. As an authorised anti-doping organisation, the law cites the anti-doping organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is neither the government nor the Olympic Committee, in order to be fully objective and completely independent. In addition, the rules of the anti-doping organisation are in line with the European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in Sports and International Standards prescribed by the World Anti-doping Agency. Obligations, established by this law, apply to all sports organisations in Serbia's territory. Starting from the realization that there is no successful fight against doping in sports without the active role of sports alliances, the law lays down the obligations of sports associations against doping in sport, and penalties are prescribed for an alliance that does not respect established obligations. In fact, such an alliance cannot be financed from public income. Furthermore, the law also provides for sanctions for persons in sport for which doping is established, which are: disqualification of results, suspension, ban on participation in competitions and bans on performance of functions. In the framework of criminal provisions, criminal and criminal liability has been established. Crimes are consistent with our criminal justice system. Control over the application of the law has the Ministry of Education and Sports, and administrative supervision will be carried out by sports inspectors, whose rights, duties and powers are prescribed by law. All sports organisations must, under this law, comply with the provisions of this law no later than six months after its entry into force. The DSS parliamentary group will support this law because it contributes to the establishment of order and legality in this area, which I think is of great importance to each country. What I can still say is that we expect this ministry, as soon as possible, before us here and the Sports Act. I think that law will be put before us very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20640	Thank you, Mrs. Markovic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Let the MP of the people be prepared Donka Banovic, then the MP of the people, Zivan Vladimirovic. There was a change because one MP gave up. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is rare that a law, like this one about preventing doping in sports, has led to such a quality debate. In order not to have one MP in the afternoon debate that was, I think, a corporal when he served the army, or slept with a corporal, would have been a very good debate. I hope we from the SRS make a quality contribution, so we leave it in some other plan. So, before I start talking about this law, I want to say this -- this law was handed over to the assembly procedure about a year ago, and it was written on it -- by an emergency procedure. We now adopt him, or he is on the agenda of the National Assembly after a year. It is necessary, but we see how it is done, how it is done, and how fast certain legal suggestions are coming to us in this congregation. During the opening debate, the minister said: our country's international obligation is to adopt this law. We Serbian radicals believe that it is Serbia's obligation to adopt such a law and to oppose what is evil, and we heard from the discussion of some MPs, that there were about 112 deaths due to the excessive use of doping funds. Then, that little application, so far, of these doping funds in Serbia, but we hope that this law will prevent it from being prevented, or reduced to the least possible. In fact, a colleague who spoke before me said that sports is not part of culture, but that sport is part of business, business and that certain people in sport behave like that. You've seen that there's a large number of people interested in getting into the Olympic Committee to get rich overnight, and we know that it can be enriched overnight with arms, drugs and other narcotics, and this is very connected to it. It is known that during the use of these doping funds comes faster to top-notch results, but faster and spends athletes using these funds. We find this law necessary. In fact, it would have been completely solved if the law on sports had been passed. Why does this law have to be passed? Because of the health of athletes, he would primarily protect the health of athletes, then for the credibility of the results achieved and for the protection of competition in the competition. Article 2 of this law says that it is forbidden to do drugs in sport. Somewhere near the end of this law there are certain provisions that they say, and I will, for the sake of the public and for athletes currently active in sports, as well as those who intend to start dealing with it, read the criminal provisions regarding the use of doping funds, in order to give up some of that. It is said: "A sportsman who has deliberately used a doping agent in a sporting contest, or has deliberately used a particular agent or substance in order to cheat doping control, will be punished by prison for up to one year. "Then, "whoever athletes in the pursuit of doping in sport to either prescribe or issue to athletes apply a doping agent, or states, help, or otherwise allow athletes to use a doping agent, will be punished by prison from one to 10 years. If the act referred to in Article 1 has been done to a minor or to a number of persons, or has caused particularly serious consequences, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of at least three years. Doping funds will be taken away." The last member, who is in part of the criminal provisions, says: "Whoever is not authorized to do drugs in sport products, process, sell or offer for sale, or buy, hold, or transfer, or mediate in the sale or purchase of doping funds, or otherwise unauthorizedly puts on the market of doping funds, will be sentenced by a prison of at least five years. Those who are not authorized to do drugs in sport, purchase, own or use equipment, material or substances that they know are intended to produce or prepare doping funds will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. Doping funds and funds for their handling will be taken away." So this part of the law in which the area is trying to settle, we think it'll be pretty well regulated. Then, surveillance measures. The surveillance's good, but he'll only be on some secondary application. It takes this action and, after the passed law, very broadly run, starting with preschool institutions, through schools. First of all, from a professor, or lecturer of physical education, should go from there, with the help of parents, in order to reduce doping in sport to the least possible, or as far as possible to avoid completely, although the full elimination of the use of doping in sport will go very hard. Now what makes us unable to pass this law, unless our amendments are accepted in the voting day, is the formation of this agency. Ladies and gentlemen, who knows which way you go not with the MPs of the SRS, but with the citizens of Serbia and introduce agencies wherever possible, and even where there is no need, as you introduce the establishment of an agency into this law. And over here, it is predicted that the board of directors of the Anti-doping Agency is numbering 15 members. Then the supervisory board of the five members and directors, which is not known what conditions are needed to carry out that function. We believe that this is completely unnecessary and that the Olympic Committee committee could be fully well and efficiently performing this role, and the funds spent on the functioning and work of this agency could be used to encourage and develop sports and drug prevention in our youth and in our society at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20642	The People's Messenger, Donka Banovic, has the word, and the People's Messenger Zivan Vladimirovic, and Radisa Ilic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20643	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and respected ministers, as my previous fellow MP said, is rare which law in the debate in principle caused so many good and quality discussions. Obviously, all MPs, or everyone in this country, care that the problem of doping in sports is solved as well as possible. There's been a lot of talk about the doping itself, but I'm going to start my presentation with the definition of doping. Doping is used in sports by those substances and methods that allow competitors to gain an unfair advantage in the competition, independent of type, quantity or method of use of these substances or methods. It is often thought that the use of illicit funds is related to the progress of modern medicine or pharmacology. However, as we have heard in many discussions today, this is not true because the first data on doping in sports is as old as 2,700 years old. We also heard that the old Greeks, and most of us knew it, used certain types of mushrooms, where athletes, in fact, increased their performances at the Olympic Games. So, the history of sports is, as we have heard today, in principle and history of the use of illicit substances in sport. Since the mid-19th century, there have been somewhat more precise data on the use of doping. At that time doping was used by athletes mainly in exhausting disciplines, such as swimming, cycling and marathon running, and in order to help overcome long stages and difficult rises. In 1967, an English cyclist died because of the use of amphetamines on the "tur de franca". Only the death of this athlete, along with a series of knowledge of the presence of doping in sports, has forced the International Olympic Committee to form a medical commission that has defined doping and made up a proper list of banned substances and techniques. In 1968, the Olympics in Mexico began with a procedure for testing athletes, initially using only stimulating means. By the early 1970s, stimulating assets, especially amphetamines, were the most represented doping assets. This infamous primate has since been taken over by anabolic steroids and kept to this day. The use of doping is so widespread that almost every major competition reports of positive doping control findings arrive. Doping is no longer reserved only for certain sports and disciplines, but is generally present in sport. In the general public, the notion of doping is unjustly linked to professional sport. However, doping is also present in amateur sports. A few years ago, a survey was conducted in Serbia on the representation of the use of authorised and unauthorized funds by non-professional athletes and amateurs, or recreationals. The survey included 363 male people visiting gyms, or dealing with bodybuilding. None of the surveyed persons are professionally boi-bilding and have ever participated in any competition. The anabolic steroids were used by 19 respondents, which is 5.3 participants in the survey, and these people considered that they were sufficiently informed of the harmfulness of using these funds. So they were consciously using these resources knowing that they could do it and almost in any case disrupting their health. Forbidden substances are both used by amateurs and recreationals. The fight against doping is a set of methods and procedures aimed at eliminating doping from sports. This goal can be achieved if energy and decisive measures are taken on the legislative plan as well. The draft law we are talking about today is in line with the European Convention against Doping in Sports, as well as all the recommendations of the Standing Group for the Monitoring of the Application of the Convention. The law provides for obligations for athletes and other participants to permit, i.e. to make doping controls possible. If a athlete prevents control or avoids it, he will be treated as positive for control. Obligations have been established both by athletes and doctors to inform each other about the facts of importance for doping. When a sportsman is forced to use a drug that contains some otherwise prohibited substance, the antidoping agency may release him from the ban on taking a particular substance on condition that there is a clear and necessary medical need. Basic rules regarding the enforcement of doping control have been laid down. The role of sports alliances is clearly defined because an effective fight against doping cannot be fought without active, above all, the role of competent sports associations. The law provides for the education of the anti-doping agency of the Republic of Serbia, which would provide constant care for the prevention and prevention of doping in sport, determines the authorities and their powers. The law prescribes supervision of its application by the ministry responsible for sports affairs through sports inspectors. Violent and criminal liability has been found within the framework of criminal provisions. Finally, I want to point out that doping today is such a significant problem that it threatens to undermine the basics of sports and ethical and physical fundamentals of the welfare of children who want to play sports. So, the DSS will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20644	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic, for the sacrifice. The People's Messenger Živan Vladimirovic, then the People's Messenger Radiša Ilic, and the People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he finally came after more postponement of this bill to prevent doping in sports. It is extremely important and important because doping in sport took such a wave to threaten to destroy both the psychological and physical health of young people and extremely talented athletes. The fact is that the younger and younger our athletes go abroad, and before all sports in basketball, volleyball, football, so that before time, pre-matched organisms reach for illicit means that currently produce results, but over a long period of time leave lasting psychological and physical consequences. In fact, from the psychological stimuli used and extremely dangerous, often leading to death, stimulants are used to block a system in the brain that informs the organism that has reached the limit of strength. The athlete acts further, exerts all his extreme possibilities and often comes to death. This stimulant is mostly used in sports that require exceptional endurance, which is mainly cycling, marathon and similar sports. As for the anabolic steroids mentioned here, they are extremely dangerous and give results in a short period of time and increase extremely muscle strength and mass. They also act on the basis of testosterone and act on the human organism, and the glands produced by testosterone bind and it permanently leaves consequences for later life. Here, various criminal provisions are mentioned, and there should be a graduation, and especially when it comes to young athletes, especially minors, doping, because they are often unaware, eager for success, eager results. They reach out to these unauthorized funds, and often in collaboration with club doctors and coaches who are also eager for success, eager for money, because the ultimate result of sport, top sport, is money. There are various managers involved, and various mechanics who want to make a big deal and big money in a hurry. As a science professor in high school, I'm familiar with all the harmful consequences of intoxicating drugs, various stimulatives on children's health. According to all the analyses, more and more drug users in schools and the Ministry of Education should take a broader action against the use of intoxicating drugs and various stimulative means through information, to make videos, to make all televisions duty to show it. When they can show those beer-loving climbers, they can also show a healthy and young athlete who has only been able to achieve outstanding results with his work. The minister said the adoption of this law is an international obligation. I agree with that. It is an even greater obligation for Serbia's parliaments, both the Serbian Government and the Ministry of Education and Sports to have a healthy nation, to have human health, and mentally and physically, because we are witnessing that in schools there are growing physical deformities, spine deformities, feet and I would appeal to the minister, if he hears me, to return the third class to a high school that was long since abolished. As a man of the profession, I know that two hours a week is insufficient and to be questioned, though. In elementary schools, yes, and not in high school yet. As far as I know. I appeal to the Ministry to return the third course of physical education to school because after the completion of primary and secondary school, 99% of people and children do not continue to play sports, and it is extremely important and useful to play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20646	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirovic. The People's Messenger Radisha Ilic has the word, and the Messenger of the People is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a year of official submission to the National Assembly by the Government for consideration, this bill has finally been put on the agenda. Given the importance of this law, the government appears to be "trying to improve the standard of Serbian citizens. What bothers the citizens of Serbia most, such as poverty, job loss, suspicious privatisation, Kosovo and Metohija, it seems to remain for another time. Thus, this law in the sea of other regulations in Serbia will find its place in our legislative system. The SRS has some fundamental objections to this law and SRS MPs already point to them during the debate. Doping in sports is a negative phenomenon that most disrupts the sports spirit and chivalry of participants in sports competitions. The approach itself to preventing doping athletes must be clear, unequivocal and precisely directed towards detecting those persons involved in these activities. Any hasty and wrong reaction, unsupported by solid evidence, can ruin a sportsman's career forever. Therefore, the high responsibility of authorised anti-doping organisations in the process of sanctioning certain cases prevents doping. This problem can be seen wider. They don't always have to be guilty just athletes. The doping of large stakes can include coaches, clubs, doctors, companies that have an interest in advertising their brand, etc. One number of dishonest sports activities is related to sports judges and their trial, while the other part relates to the use of doping funds and the planting of these funds to athletes, which serves individual interest groups, in order to activate doping affairs by destroying their careers to rival clubs or individuals. As for Article 3, which speaks of infringements of the anti-doping rules, there is the impression that some of the intended cases leave a lot of room for the manipulation of people in anti-doping organisations. For example. in point 2) of this Article, I quote - attempt to use doping funds. What methods will be able to apply a person from an anti-doping organization to establish, as it is said here, an attempt to use. This case can only be proven by a serious police investigation, monitoring, covert recording, witness testimony and order of a doctor, etc. In point 6 of Article 3 it is said that the infringement of the anti-doping rules and if an illicit doping agent is owned. This is certainly too wide a point, and it is not clear whether it refers to the medications that the person owns at his home, which other family members use, and are bought in a pharmacy in free sale. So, not specifically, this point focused on whether the means directly found by the contestants or what is at home are meant. To own, it means to have something in your possession, no matter where it is. In point 8 of this article, there are some ambiguities to which this anti-doping injury is specifically concerned. Does the injury refer to a sportsman or a doctor? This can also be interpreted as giving doping funds without the agreement of competitors, as well as giving with consent, which was later discovered. You've also listed this concept of doping funds. No sports doctor is naive enough to publicly prescribe the release and use of illicit doping. This is something that is too high and unnecessary. What's almost inevitable when it comes to doping in sports, it's doping animals that participate in sports competitions. It primarily refers to the organizers of horse racing, as well as the race where other animals take part. Given how much money is turning in this area of sport, it would be necessary to extend this member by amendment to the SRS, which was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, whose law would find all those who, doping animals and setting up the race results, earn huge sums of money at betting stations. Article 6(3) clarifies the situation in which a athlete should make sure that the medical treatment obtained does not contain a doping agent. This formulation is not good for the following reason: how can a athlete convince himself of the existence of some means, when he simply does not have any knowledge in the field of medicine and pharmacies? It would be more logical for a doctor to commit himself to prescribing treatment that does not contain a doping agent, not to convince himself. Such a solution in its amendment was proposed by SRS MP Dr Pai Momcilov and the minister should accept this change when the debate takes place in particular. Article 21 provides for some deadlines for the time limits for the ban on participation in competitions. Expressing the ban on participation is very important and significant in the career of every athlete. The question arises what happens if a sportsman, after a measure has been taken in court, proves the lack of basis for a ban on participation in competitions. For some athletes, it can mean the end of a career, financial failure, family breakdown, etc. How will someone from the antidoping organization be held responsible for the wrongly stated measure? In this case, has the integrity of athletes been protected? I don't think so, and time will show if it really happens in practice. In the end, I'd say something about an anti-doping agency. The SRS is in principle against the establishment of any agency. Article 29 shows that this agency will also be on the back of Serbian citizens, as the funds for its work and establishment are secured, among other things, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition, funds for the Agency's work are provided for both from donations and sponsorship of foreign and domestic legal and natural persons. Who can now say there can be no abuse or even conflict of interest here? The anti-doping agency, which determines the liability of a person under Article 30(5), should be maintained, inter alia, and from the funds received from a person who may be directly or indirectly interested in individual cases. This bill would be acceptable if objections and amendments to SRS MPs were adopted, leaving behind the possibility of abuse by both athletes and anti-doping organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20648	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. A total of 28 minutes, but there's no reason to use everything, it's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20649	Mr. President, thank you for reminding me, I will follow your recommendation. It's a big help. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is from a previous period, from a last-declaration. For reasons unknown to us, however, he was not in the debate before the MPs of the congregation. Now we are able to talk about a very serious topic, a big problem that not only athletes face, but society and state as a whole. The essence of this problem and its resolution is not that we are going to adopt a law that is only a follow-up to things that are countries of Europe, and the whole world, adopted as a legal provision or as some rules when it comes to sports organisations or associations or, in the end, if it is a system of competition and regulation of the competition system itself, then this matter is fully regulated. What's our real problem here? Here is a fundamental problem in how to enforce this law. Preventing the use of doping and stimulant means, it is fully resolved on the international competition scene, to all details. How are we going to implement this law when it comes to domestic sport and competition on Serbia's sports scene? How realistic is it that we can now say that the government here predicts that this problem will be resolved in a shorter period by establishing the agency. We won't, gentlemen. Stimulative means are used everywhere by athletes. It's a common-known thing. It's not that athletes do it with their own will or that coaches do it with their own will, but it's that the whole system of functioning sports is more of a system of successful work, that is, earning money. That's the point of the problem. What is the system for the operation of Olympic and other committees, sports associations? It is based on one simple fact -- the goal of functioning these committees, associations and organisations is to make as much profit as possible. To that end, sports results contribute to increasing the profits of these associations or committees. If we pass it on to the home stage, then we'll see that all alliances, all national organizations by the same system, are organized. What's the difference? It's just a profit difference. Look at the clubs. These are no longer in the right sense the words of a sports organisation, they are working organisations, profit organisations. The basic function of clubs and national associations is clearly pointed out that the goal is to earn, and the funds used are athletes. We pass the law and say no stimulating means. Which one? The ones that are familiar. What do you think stimulant or doping means are used by those who have already been seen? How fast do you think technology and pharmaceuticals are going, that we're going to be able to stop everything from happening with this law? No, it's a delusion. It's just one form to cover this government and say it's following modern European flows, as it is in your habit, to always go out and say "this is one pro-European law". This is a law that serves to cover everything that is legalized in the world, especially with us. How else to interpret that the heads of the National Olympic Committee were people who acquired wealth under very suspicious circumstances: arms trafficking, drug trafficking, fraud. How do these people carry out that main maximum of "the important thing is to participate"? They're doing it in practice. Why do they need that association? They need them to have coverage in the overall system that's been established, if you will, and on a higher level, on a global scale. Olympic committees are one of the largest money launderers in the world. After all, we are all witnessing that such picnics are being published from day to day and such data related to certain members of the world's Olympic organizations, from the fact that they were politically defined to destroy everything but them, that no one was in the world, until they were recognized for being drug traffickers, stimulants and dopings. Let the world deal with its problems, but it is essential for us to solve this problem in the most efficient way. How are we going to solve it? It is impossible to solve these problems in this way and in the way that the ministry is working and functioning. Did we have any problems with the Olympic Committee? We did. What was the problem with the Olympic Committee? The problem was, as it was presented to the public, that the leaders would move away from those positions, to come second instead. What's in common for both? They're engaged in impeccable shops. One in the field of business and one in politics. Who now assures us that such wicked people, with such unholy intentions, will go into a decisive fight against the use of doping and stimulant means? Nobody. It's not like we're guaranteed to have one of our colleagues, who's been very active in the Olympic Committee lately, who has something to do with sports because she's had physical training for three hours, she's been in those classes, she can understand the danger of using doping and stimulant means. The sport, however, is a conscious participation in a single competition, and the running of the bridge was done on her side unconsciously. I didn't say unconsciously, I said unconsciously. Her permanent condition is unconscious. How can we influence this Olympic Committee if we only have the law that the agency is going to do it? That's impossible. We can influence not through a resolution ministry that's in charge of sports, but through the Ministry of Interior. Cirkovic, here's your turn, take it easy, this is a ministry that has you in charge too. So, preventing the use of stimulative and doping means by the state systematically, through the organs and systems it manages. We can't tell the public stories here that there have been serious discussions on this subject. First of all, the subject is completely unserious from the basis of the proposing or the bill. The topic is unserious, and the problem is very serious. The point is to solve the problem. How do we solve the problem? By doing something to solve the problem, we're going to start in its conception itself, at the beginning, which is to bring physical education, physical culture back to primary education, return it to high school and, if possible, colleges. Just nod your head, you have no idea, this is where I made my bread, you don't know what it was. Secondly, we can influence a positive media campaign. When lately you've had a chance to look at an example of an amateur athlete from a smaller environment in the interior. You can't even remember. An example of who is a successful man in sports: those who professionally practice sports, those who in most cases left this country for understandable needs of their own and reasons, went professionally to practice sports. It's not like someone's still so naive that they can believe that in the American professional basketball league they don't use stimulant or doping. No matter how much anti-doping control has advanced, however, the pharmaceutical industry has so advanced that it is a step ahead. But we can influence by all the ministries, which the government will seriously fight against the use of stimulating and doping funds, not agencies. The earlier government had as one cliché or model to form bureaus, and now this one has agencies. A little bit of an agency. Are we going to have an agency of stars and partisans? Two agencies. As you start with the agencies, every street in this country will have an agency. This is the law that you have that, as you announce, you bring into the European Union quickly and you adopt it in this assembly, and it has essentially a weight only if it is added to that number or kilograms of those laws that you have previously passed. But their significance and what can be done thanks to this law is negligible. Don't take any of the problems that are related to the use of stimulating sports. Those involved in this work know very well that the category of stimulant and doping also includes those funds that serve to repair injuries. If we're not careful, then we'll put in the same plane those funds that are for repairing injuries, for helping athletes, as well as those funds that athletes take to achieve the ultimate results. If we "legally solve" this way, then we'll have a further situation that in certain not only league football clubs, but even at amateur level, players need to run after the game is over. Are we waiting for an agency representative to determine if they were taking any stimulant means? Every normal knows that the human average organism with maximum training is hard to achieve the result of running at 100 meters below 10 seconds. And it's especially clear to everyone if first league players in this country need to run after 90 minutes of how long the game lasts. It's not like they're having too many conditions. Where does the state react? It does not react through the agency, but reacts through the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries to prevent it from being sanctioned. The state reacts, and if it does not leave out, for example, the National Olympic Committee, which political or business vagabonds, and the state here stands by, and then we have attended a paradox that I must, as an MP of the SRS, as an honorary citizen of this country to say, we have experienced the biggest slap, we have suffered the greatest defeat when instead of one legend of sports, a man who celebrated the name of this country, and his name is Dragan Kicanovic, we have been allowed to lead the National Olympic Committee by a smuggler, a merchant and a criminal. But he also has support for some of the ruling structures. Keep an eye on them. They're not reliable people. Don't support them. If nothing else, then for reasons of ruining youth, the most valuable, the most quality, because that youth is in sport.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20650	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20651	Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I was watching on a television show one of our fellow MPs from the ruling majority sweated a few times before perhaps a bit of unpleasant questions from leaders and viewers who were involved in the show. All asked him to explain what was good and concrete, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the assembly majority did, what was done, and that citizens saw it and that it was finally starting to live better. Of course, he had no answer, his colleague kept repeating how many laws were passed in this House. I know it is our task, that we should pass the laws, but it seems that the order and priorities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivers to us here are not exactly the happiest solutions and are not what Serbia needs today. I'd say that's also the case with this proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports. The fact is that this, or law of this kind, needs Serbia, needs every country. You've heard from your colleagues in the SRS a lot of data during today's debate. Indeed, the necessity of this law is not disputed, but it is disputed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not seem to know how to do it properly. Maybe the government here had good intentions, no minister, and even when it's not paying attention to the MPs, it mostly chats with its associates, it's not nice, it's not polite, but it's a matter of home education. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to do any work to the end as it should and that what the Government is doing really would have an effect. Every problem, and what you're trying to do with the laws that you're discussing here, is about a little bit of surface scratching, and basically nothing's changing and nothing's happening. That's also the case with this bill. There's also been a lot of positive assessments about this law. Of course, this way when you look at it in general and casually it can sound like that, but it really is such that the objections that we of the SRS had on this bill are such that it is simply not possible to accept that the law can be passed without being accepted by those remarks. That's what we've been trying to convince the government's representative and the congregation's majority all day. Of course, we do not expect our suggestions to be accepted. If today's motion for a resolution of the SRS is not accepted regarding this shameful and terrible resolution on the Vojvodina, or on the state of the national minorities, so that we can expect you to adopt some amendment to some law that is somewhere out there in relation to that problem in which I do not know. The minister so proudly said that both on the board and here, there are largely no negative connotations when it comes to this law and that many amendments have not been submitted. We in the SRS, the fact is, we haven't submitted a large number of amendments, but I repeat, the amendments are such that simply without them the law isn't worth anything and could not be applied. You have a problem again, as with most of the laws you've passed, that the government is proposing and you're adopting non-applicable laws, and it's already become a practice. And we always know, when we pass one law, when you adopt it, that it follows us in some next month, two or three amendments and additions to that law, so we're more Googled on such situations and we don't pay attention. We know it's inevitable. The SRS has also been on track since the start of its operation to get in the way of drug abuse and we think the state should actively engage in the fight against drug abuse. The SRS expert team has prepared a programme and we will soon start a serious and extensive campaign, I mean this drug fight, because apparently the state and state institutions don't want to do it, because if they wanted to, then we wouldn't have these problems that our colleagues talked about, and they're educational workers, about the Ministry's attitude towards the subject of physical education. If we don't start with preschool benches, if we don't educationally act on the kids and on until they're adults and citizens, then there won't be any more of what we're doing here. It's terrible, doping is present in sports, is present in the world and, of course, we don't have enough data, no one has taken seriously, but unfortunately doping, and in the worst form of alcoholism and drug abuse, is present in all spheres of life, even among high-ranking officials of political parties and high-ranking officials, I mean those state officials, and that is the problem. It's high time to get in the way of that. You're obviously not ready for that. You're going to bring on a government proposal like this one non-chalant law, I think that's the best term. There's something about what's supposed to be happening here, but nothing concrete or anything significant. We've amendedly intervened on several members. I'll just mention Article 3, where we predicted that anti-doping rules apply to animals, if it's a sport where animals participate. It's just amazing that the minister and the government didn't predict something like this, it's amazing that the government is acting crazy in front of something that everyone in Serbia knows exists, everyone knows how much bets are paid for horse racing, which are money in horse sports. Why does the government want to keep Dragoljub Markovic and some similar ergels, I really don't understand it, but it's obvious that some extreme intentions exist, again something that isn't written directly in the law itself, but we certainly know that we read between the lines. When it comes to this anti-doping agency, or the anti-doping committee on the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee, and we in the SRS suggest it, I would only comment on something. Just now, a colleague who will support this law said that this anti-doping agency, which is provided for by this law, will be completely independent and independent in its work. It's completely impossible and incredible, and don't keep telling us that story about some kind of independence, the independence of some organs, because you're not gonna pick people up from the branch and bring them to this or any other agency. Of course you'll bring your party thinkers, your listeners, and don't convince us, don't convince Serbian citizens yet, just to let me know that this, where this someone who is completely independent and independent will come from, and who no one in any way will and cannot influence. It is simply impossible and therefore do not throw dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens. Of course, in Article 6, says counterpart Sreto Peric, what you famous in the law that something can or can't be done, and we of the SRS represent the position of concise and precise legal norms and, of course, this can not stand, it must be known whether someone is responsible or not, because it can't be said that something can be said in law, so what it can do, the one applying can judge that he doesn't have to and, of course, another possibility for abuse. I've watched these 52nd and 53rd articles that apply to punishments, we haven't had an amendment here, but it's just as interesting as this, and I think it would be good for the minister to hear this, because this is a problem with all the laws of this government, incredibly large ranges when it comes to criminal penalties and it's amazing how sorted the violations are. I'll tell you a specific example, which seems to me to be the most impressive. First, Article 52 states that a fine of 50,000 to 350,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the national sports association, sports organisation and other persons, and is then listed, among other things in point 6) says "if it does not take the measures and activities set out in Article 10(1) of this law under its jurisdiction". The 10th says, "The National Sports Association is required," and then states what needs to be done. Article 53 provides for fines from 10,000 to 50,000 fines for a violation of a natural person, including, if not authorised, or if it does not allow for doping control. Fellow MPs, if you followed what I said, then in the first case, a fine of 50,000 to 350,000 dinars is foreseen. On the side of that range, but I'm talking about that maximum of 350,000 dinars. The maximum penalty to a person who does not allow and disables doping control is only 50,000. What does this mean? It means that a athlete can do his will, achieve the right result, that result brings a lot of money to him and to whoever sends him to a sports competition, and he will be punished for being fined by 50,000 dinars. You have examples like this in both members, and we will talk about it when we speak in detail. I guess we don't have time to talk about this law anymore, but we'll talk about it in detail. In any case, the SRS, our parliamentary group cannot and will never vote for laws that only have a title that may seem to say that this law should be passed. We will never vote for a law that essentially does not solve any problems, but only does it begin and leaves the possibility of abuse and broad interpretation of legal norms.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20652	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. Is there another word he wants that hasn't used his right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. I thank the representatives of the Ministry. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Security and Health Safety Act at Work You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, the G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the parliamentary group - New Serbia's independent MPs 9+9 - 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDPs and two independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93rd paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this item are representatives of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscuric; for the Socialist Party MP Toma Busetic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, want a word? Here you go, Minister. At the same time, I am informing you, because of the obligations of the other MPs, that the decision we have made will be done by the end of the period we have begun we will not be able to respect, because we must respect the second decision of the Rules of Procedure, which is that the transfers are public. Technically, it's not possible to secure a transmission after 1800 hours. So, at 6:00, we'll interrupt the debate. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20653	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, you have before you a bill on safety and health at work. I don't think I have to explain how significant the law is, how important this matter is in Serbia. We are all witnessing certain injuries to the work that are happening, which we follow through the press, through the public. So, for a long time, I've been preparing this law, I must say, for many years it's been working on. There is one fundamental need for the adoption of this law, which is that the rules that are now in force are long ago passed and that these are regulations that were logical and adapted to each other's time and other relationships. Simply, for a long time, there has been a need for Serbia to meet the necessary standards, in line with modern solutions in Europe. Roughly speaking, we had two types of obligations: one kind of obligation was to bring our regulations into line with a number of international legal acts, the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, the Protocol, but also with the directives of the European Union and a series of acts adopted in this area. Of course, it is an obligation in line with the European Social Charter. There is also a commitment, which we ourselves took when we adopted the EU Accession Strategy. So, on one side long ago, there is a need to introduce into our legislation those obligations that the state has already taken, but at the level of international acts. Another need to pass this law is the need to prepare ourselves and create conditions in Serbia that will hurt as few workers as possible, to be as few fatal injuries as possible, which unfortunately there are. Simply, to create the best possible conditions in line with European standards for the work of our company workers. I have one more thing to say here. We've had a relatively small number of injuries, if I may say so - fatal injuries, a good part because industry hasn't worked for us, which the economy hasn't worked that long. During this period when we expect sudden economic development, when we expect investment in the Serbian economy, how good it is for our economy to start, to start the standard, to start employment, on the other hand, in this area, in the area of safety and health at work, there is a great risk of more serious labour injuries and fatal outcomes. So, by adopting this law, we are essentially preparing ourselves in good time for what is already largely and what is yet to come, which is that in the serious development of the Serbian economy and how to show the need and already the need for standards and modes of work to be introduced in the field of safety and health at work that will lead to maximum safety of employees. Of course, I could give you international acts that bind us to it, but I don't think there's a need at this point. I'd like to point out something else. What is the basic idea of this law? The basic idea of this law is prevention. Compared to the philosophy that was present in the previous period, where there was the idea that we could sanctions to successfully deal with this problem, it proved, of course, not just to us and not just to this issue, that you can't solve the problem by sanctions. The essence of the problem can or should be solved by preventive action and that is what is the essence of this law. When I talk about preventive action, first of all, I think, and it's here in this law and defined completely clearly, one new category is being introduced into this area. It was collokious later on in thinking, but not as a liability and as an act, which is a question of risk assessment. The key thing in the area of prevention is to assess the risk of the obligation, to carry out a risk assessment at workplaces and the obligation of the employer to adopt, accordingly, a work risk assessment act. So it's actually an essential act or an essential process that needs to enable preventive action, because how do we act preventively if we don't know what the risk is in individual jobs or in individual work processes? It's the key to this law. In this regard, when we talk about risk assessment, the law sets out the obligation of each employer, when we adopt this law, to adopt a risk assessment act, and in collaboration with medical work, with other entities that need to help. The first and the main thing is actually the adoption of a risk assessment act. The other thing that matters when we talk about this law is one approach that I think is important for this area, and that is including those that are primarily concerned with acting together with the state to improve the situation in this area. When I say that, I mean first of all social partners, I mean unions, I mean employers. In fact, here in law, it's meant to be a solution, but I'd like to give one piece of information that doesn't appear in the law. We have been involved in the work inspection and representatives of representative unions and employers for a year or year, so that their representatives, together with our inspectors, are going to the field and in some ways taking part in doing these inspection or control controls, where I think it is another valuable experience for them to see that this is not such a simple job, as people who watch it on the side often think. It is important that by including trade unions and employers we raise the quality of what we do and, most importantly, we include organisations that, on the one hand, have the need to act together with the state to protect their membership, trade unions, and employers also to protect members of their associations, because this is, of course, a mutual relationship and interest. When it comes to trade unions and employers, now I'm talking about trade unions, it's very important when we involve them in this joint activity, then they, through their network of union organisations that they have in businesses, simply provide us with information, agree with us, co-operate with the labour inspectorate, and what's happening over the past year as a practical activity, has led us to have fewer fatal injuries than it has been in the nine months of 2004. It is this facto activity itself, of course, that setting up the entire system and adopting this law, and I expect it to be adopted, should bring much better results, for these years already showing serious results in this changed concept. The changed concept, which is basically on prevention, is also expressed in one obligation by the labour inspector to act preventively, in terms of a tour of the company without calling, without having to punish someone, in terms of giving advice, explaining what needs to be done to make it a better situation on this basis in the company. That's what we're practically already doing to a certain extent, but the point is that the law is now going to be bound by that thing. In fact, the whole focus, as you can see from what I've said, is being shifted to this side of prevention, explanation and joint work. Moreover, we think, which applies not only in this area, that we as a state cannot achieve desirable results if we do not realize that we need to achieve greater cooperation of all the factors concerned on a matter, and at the same time if we do not understand that we are able to properly regulate and create favourable conditions only if most of those concerned, and employers and workers, essentially voluntarily and consciously understand that they are in their interest, respect the law. Why am I saying this? It's because of a changed philosophy compared to an earlier period. It's impossible if too many entities don't respect the law so that we can handle sanctions or something else in that area. What we insist on is in fact forming awareness among employers and workers about the need for their interest, not because the state prescribes it and will punish him if he does not respect it, to respect the regulations in this area, as well as in other areas. I mentioned it once, and I'll repeat it because it's an example of this different approach, once when I spoke to a delegation who came from the U.S. Ministry of Work on Talks here and when I mentioned it in the conversation, shouting as many of us as we have an inspector – we had about 400 and something, about mine, if we had 4,000, so that it would be good – in that conversation they informed me that in the United States, with so many employees, they had less than 1,000 labour inspectors. What exactly is that idea? I asked, how is it possible that you have so many employees? It's about what's normal for 99% of employers to respect the law. These inspectors are gonna be chasing those 1%. The bottom line is, that's why I'm stressing the issue of prevention, the essence of the idea of what we're doing is to raise the awareness of people who first and foremost care about the situation in this area, so that the situation in this area will be significantly improved. Every other approach has proved unsuccessful. We can now get high on how much punishment should be, but it just doesn't make any difference. You know very well, and we all know that unfortunately very often, not only employers are responsible for the injury at work or the accident. You know very well, whoever lives realistically in Serbia, that there are many cases where workers themselves are responsible in this sense for not applying the measures, refusing to apply the measures, not putting protective clothes on themselves, simply doing things at their own expense. So I stress this is very important, which is why trade unions are involved, to act essentially educationally, preventively, to convince workers that it is in their best interest to respect the regulations in this area. After all, we can't expect the employer to make sure the law applies if the worker himself doesn't. This is another segment of why it is very important to create conditions in which we will be able to act in a proper way, and preventive action is always an action on people's consciousness. It's always a preventive action, and otherwise, in some other segments, we have the idea to act through conversations with employers, unions, collective agreements and other things, simply to have a majority mood about who it concerns to apply the law. When we do, everything else will be easy. Then there'll be 400 inspectors, and maybe less, maybe it shouldn't be 400. It's not a number, it's a matter of quality. So the quality of the relationship that needs to be established in this area and the whole idea of this law is to establish different relationships or different standards in this area. The very name of the law is no longer a protection at work, which we've been used to for decades, but safety and health at work, which is a broader concept and is in line with European standards, I'm talking about a broader scope that is being achieved by this law. That is why this law covers concepts, such as working environments and similar concepts, because the overall system and the conditions in which our worker is now working, or in which our employer should meet the appropriate conditions. Of course, through the application of these provisions and the application of this law, we need to achieve these basic objectives. Now, in the context of what I was saying about the need and the professional thing to change consciousness or the relationship to this problem, we in this law predict that, in fact, in the employers' companies, it will be an obligation to have one representative of the employee involved in the whole story. When I say that, of course he can be in the union and he doesn't have to be if there's no union, I'm talking about the need for someone from that collective to be involved in these things. The second, very important thing, is also envisaged to form a Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Enterprises, where, through a kind of social contact, agreements between employees, whether they have or do not have a union, and employers, work together to optimise working conditions. The point of the whole thing is that optimal working conditions are in the best interest of both employers and workers. In fact, this concept, where we involve both sides and we want to turn them on as much as possible, is the idea that they understand it and that they care about it together. Only if they have awareness and care about it in that environment, and we can achieve the effects. We can't from Belgrade, we can't really solve problems that are in a place 300km away, in a company, by calling the labour inspector's phone and saying go there. It's an illusion. These things already happen while you do it. That's what's so important in the whole story. We have also seen the problem that unfortunately, in a few cases, those who need to deal with this area in businesses, by improving the conditions in this area, are not sufficiently qualified or that they are familiar with enough matter. We've got an unprepared man, we've satisfied the form, we've got some Pera Petrovic there, and he doesn't know shit about it. Things aren't going right. We also predicted here that people who deal with this area in enterprises must have passed a professional exam, and in this regard, the Ministry, or the minister, gives certain licences, licensing that man. The bottom line is that we get in businesses with employers a qualified staff, who knows this matter and who can do it on the basis of knowledge. We need to raise the level of expertise of those who do this, and that's actually the story here. And that we are aware of the problem that we are facing and that we are just going to face, if God gives us health, to start a serious investment and economic development, we year, year and a half of the last, and if not two years, we are doing a serious reform of the labour inspectorate, independent of this law, although this law comes as some crown of that and part of something regulates. So, for about two years, we've been conducting a project to reform the labour inspectorate. We're just finishing it now. I think we've achieved one important key thing. What was the idea of the whole project? You have a technical part of the story, to tie it up, to have computers, connections, it's all nice and it should have. However, what is the basic question? The basic question is what kind of inspectorate that is. What he really is, how qualified he is and what quality he is. So, the heart of this project was in the professional training of labour inspectors in Serbia, in order to create, in addition to other conditions, in addition to raising its expertise, and to be able to perform so-called an integrated function, which means that with a smaller number of reviews, a greater effect can be achieved. It was a central issue of this reform. I can say that right now, and of course you never have a hundred percent effect, it's an illusion. According to some critical approach, I am sure that more than half of the labour inspectors achieved the necessary level of expertise and willingness to do their job because it was simply an important element. We're free of the best law if the people on the ground don't know the job and aren't capable. Then we all talked for free. That's what we do and what we do. As the crown of that story came this law. Of course, we haven't ignored that part of the sanctions that must exist in every law. We, just to get this thing serious, know the limited range of sanctions I was talking about, but you need to get that thing serious. Now, in the current solutions, these fines range from 50 dinars to 8,000 dinars. That's funny, comedian. Now we've overlooked criminal penalties here ranging from 800,000 to a million dinars for the employer, and for the entrepreneur from 400 to 500,000. But what is important, we have also provided penalties for workers who do not comply with the regulations, who will not place protective equipment on them, from 10,000 to 20,000 dinars are also penalties provided for in that part. (From the O.R.: If he survives.) ) Whether to survive depends precisely on whether you will vote for this law. So, what I'm saying is that if we didn't pass this law, of course we would be seriously at risk in the perspective of workers' health in Serbia. Since I'm sure there's a lot of people in this congregation, thank God, to pass this law, so I don't worry about it. That's what we have most of it for. What I was also going to say, regardless of trying to throw someone away, is also one very important thing. We've given a special emphasis here in law on the area of construction. It's quite clear why. The largest number of fatal injuries occur in this area and in the area of construction and in its specific treatment we gave the law a special place. Whoever read the law saw what I mean. We're aware of what's going on. I have to tell you that what is the direct cause of the need for us to deal with this issue is that at this point, as we speak, practically, Belgrade and Novi Sad, for example, two major construction sites can be said. There are now about 420 large sites in Belgrade, which is not remembered when it was. There are over 270 major construction sites in Novi Sad, and what it says about the serious need for such a size of work to be done, and we expect there to be even more construction sites, that the whole of Serbia will be a major site, in such conditions it is necessary that special treatment has an area of construction, because unfortunately, there are, as you know, the most frequent injuries. I just wanted to say one more thing, which is that such reformed labour inspections should actually be the headquarters that will work together with their social partners, and these are trade unions, employers, through preventive action, really create conditions that will be in Serbia: to work safely in accordance with European standards. By adopting this law, we will essentially, and that is our duty, fulfill one of our important tasks, which is to enable the Serbian labour force to work in such conditions as are appropriate for developed European countries. I think everyone in this congregation wants it and that everyone, by my logic, should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20654	Thank you, Mr. Lalovich. Please, now according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20655	That's very nice of you to be confused with, Mr. Markovic. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. First member of the Rules of Procedure, and I believe I can really bet the minister doesn't know a single member of the Rules of Procedure, and that's what I'm saying because he's also an MP. The first member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament. He who insults the dignity of the National Assembly, who says first of all that the messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr. Slobodan Lalovic is also an MP and minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, yes, he is head of his own solo group. First of all, Mr. Markovic, I don't understand at all, you objected today, and rightly so, to a man who came in here and told us in a hurry that the assistant was unknowingly dressed and dressed, because he had some gins on him. Came this way into the most legislative body, into this esteemed congregation building, which is, no matter how hard we worked through the violation of the Rules of Procedure and MPs from the ruling structures to demean it. What Mr. Nikolic would say is that there's no more morals, no more. And what the People's Assembly has turned into, we ask ourselves, ten and a half years old, and those who have seen it for a year and a half. Okay. You could not give him your word because the MP and minister Lalovic did not fit your codes, which you advocated and adopted by units of local self-government, came dressed in the Serbian Parliament. Minister Lalovic, an MP, came to the Assembly without a tie and went out to talk about the law. He, at the very least, underestimates and demeans workers in Serbia, not only workers, but all those who monitor the transmission and see that it poses over an abnormal situation in which Serbia is today. Every worker who, for example, for punishment for not wearing a working suit, or protectively – the question is only where and which factories do it, and which is the percentage of those who can take protection at work and train themselves in accordance with new regulations and pay the full salary – says "what is 5,000 dinars, yes", and the question is whether he will receive so much. Mr. Lalovic, ever since you started coming with your ideas to the National Assembly, it wouldn't be a big deal if you were just an MP and came up with an idea, but you're a minister in the government, and the government is irresponsible, because it gives you the opportunity to play with the fate of citizens and workers. First of all, worse and worse live than your ideas. Cardelity and one model that you use as a piece of work from that time. But there were respected businessmen and capable people there, no matter what you think, but you've never worked on these jobs, you haven't been the director of some big businesses and you've had that kind of management function. From the union, through the second union, and after October 5th, as "I'll catch thieves", so I found Vuk Obradovic the crime, you in the drawer, and you advance further, to the minister, to the free shooter. Don't talk to the MPs of the SRS like that. You are not only insulting our dignity, we are high moral and honorable people, but citizens of Serbia, and there are over 40% of them and there will be over 50% of them who support us. (President: Time. ) Because you said that they would be better off if the law passed, and we will influence it, and we do not want workers well. They know all Serbian citizens that we wish them well, because our main purpose and intention is to drive the entire government out of power as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20656	Therefore, Article 1 regulates the rights and duties of Members, i.e. this Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the organisation and work of the National Assembly and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. In contrast, today I have warned and asked him to leave the gentleman's room who came in a colorful shirt, sportingly, inadequately dressed to represent the ministry. It's my duty. There's also one dress rule, which is currently out of function, another one that is now being prepared and I expect the Administrative Board to adopt it anyway, but none of them mentions the tie. I get it from the previous address, and I get it well on the basis of the amendments to Article 35, you'll see, it's just an appeal to respect the workplace and the way it's being left behind, and the way it's stuck, and the way it's being taken over, and the fact that it's appropriate equipment in the workplace, that it's something that MPs of all the parliamentary groups agree on, and also representatives of the government. Please take a look and you'll see. I hope you're satisfied with the clarification. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you have some colleagues, unfortunately, who are also in the way they were reacting now when I went to the pay phone, who showed that they are like that Albian today, for some place where they should be isolated, and never sit in a parliamentary bench. It also serves them to honor this man who reacts in this way, and the MP is the ruling structure. By the way, when he looks himself in the mirror, I think he's scared, because that's how he behaves and looks at everyone else like he hates the whole world. As far as the answer is concerned, I am not satisfied and I ask that the Parliament in the voting day declare that you, by allowing inappropriate and inappropriate behaviour of the minister, have allowed the dignity of the Assembly to be offended, to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20658	We're continuing our work. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and Mr Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Lalovic, President Markovic, for us in the SPS, this law is not disputed, when it comes to employers' obligations and responsibilities, and when it comes to obligations, in a way, and the responsibilities of employees. I'm just gonna stick to employee rights. I think it's the most controversial thing in this bill. When it comes to the rights of employees, it will remain a dead letter on paper, regardless of what in this law, in this chapter, in Articles 22 and 23, says that they are employees' rights to make proposals, remarks, that they can refuse work under certain conditions. I don't think there's any of that, first of all, because in our country after October 5th, the basic system, the system of values, has changed the laws. The biggest problem is the Labour Act. According to this Labour Act, which is a parent, basic law, the employer is all, the worker is nothing, the employee has no right whatsoever, and one permanent sword for all employees is fired by the employer, which can be given at any time. Let's just remind ourselves, this law, which was passed in 2001, says that the employer's resignation is possible due to the employer's results, which is assessed by the employer, is possible if the employer suddenly finds that the employee does not have adequate knowledge, that there is no adequate capacity, because of working indiscipline, which is once again assessed by the employer, is possible due to organisational, technical or technological changes. If we have all this in mind, then almost every employee has no right. It's just that he can't even try to turn down a job, no matter what it's about. That's the situation when we talk about private entrepreneurs, where we know what these private bosses are like: prideful, grammable, 90% are like that, where workers and employees can't even think about refusing any job, refusing to work more than full-time, because that's exactly what this is about, let alone some suggestions, suggestions, objections, no matter what the topic is on the agenda. It's not just about private companies. The worst situation is in private businesses. This is also the situation in public enterprises, institutions, institutions, schools, hospitals. He's threatened with layoffs everywhere, he's threatened with technological surpluses everywhere. Simply, in such a situation, each of the employees listens irrevocably to their employer, whether it is a private entrepreneur, whether it is a school director, a hospital director, all the perpetrators are under one directive - to carry out every possible task. This also applies to social enterprises where people are out of work, 300-400 thousand people are out of work. In one factory, where the number of employees is halved, you think that one of those who stayed at work will tell their employer – my terms are you and those are, I will not do more than full-time, my remarks are these, my suggestions are these. Guys, that's not gonna happen. When I talk about these foreign employers, this situation is no better, everything is similar. Here, all the ministers of October 5th boasted the great success of Sartida. In the Sartid, where production has increased five times, I have learned today that the average salary is 200 euros. So, workers have the right to an approximate salary as it is in some other countries, but there's none of it. To make someone think they're saying - I don't want to work for 200 euros, I'm looking for a bigger salary. So it's none of that, it's changed the system, the law is cruel, and as long as it's such a law and all the rights of employees are reduced to almost no rights. Simply, all employees must listen to their bosses unspeakably. There are several proposals in the law itself regarding the establishment of a Security Committee, so there will be a number of board members, and all this story that I was talking about at the beginning refers to this committee. Simply, the representatives of the employees have to listen to their employers, their bosses, unnecessarily, so they will not produce any special result. Or when we talk about the union, so it's said in this law that the relationship between the union and the board is such that it's governed by a collective agreement. We know the collective contract isn't mandatory, it only applies to public services, businesses, institutions. Collective contracts aren't where it's most difficult, where the biggest exploitation is, where the bosses and employers are the most brutal. These are, above all, private enterprises and everything privatized after October 5th. It's 1,000 companies, and we know what the situation is in all these companies. On the other hand, we know how unions behave. In addition to the Independent Union, all other unions that are only on paper are always represented by the government, always acting as someone else's and other interests. I believe that the formation of the Security Administration is one unnecessary thing, the administration is multiplying and just to remind Minister Lalovic that we have great announcements of the dismissal of workers in health care, in education, in all institutions and institutions, and we know that after 5 October 20,000 people are employed, new people, in state structures. So, everything about the ministries. It's an amazing thing, but it's true. So by 2000, there were 9,000 workers in these state structures, in the ministries, in the administrations, and now there were 27,000. The question arises when we insist on restructuring public enterprises, so the EPS will run out of jobs of 20,000 people, we have a surplus in these state structures, these people who were admitted after October 5th. But it was a party line, let's hire all of our own, take care of them. It's mostly those who have walked all these years, but a small number has been taken care of, a large number of people were at that moment, but they've all been cheated, so this security administration means nothing but the accumulation of a new number of people, employees of the ministries. That's our opinion when it comes to agencies and all other services. There's another parallel to be made here. When we talk about employee rights, the law says employees have rights. If we were to make some parallel with state issues, the most important state issues, we would have this situation. Here, for example, all of our most important and highest state officials, started by Vuk Draskovic, Svetozar Marovic, Tadic, and Kostunica, all have the right, but not only the right and obligation to tell the international invoice when it comes to Resolution 1244 that it has resolved the issue of Kosovo and Metohija when it comes to status and that we today-to-day Security Council can only talk about the model of autonomy, about the essence of autonomy. It's pure nonsense, the thesis that now appears - more than autonomy and less than independence. It's the right and obligation of all state officials, but no one can tell the international factor. As employees here must say nothing to their employer and their boss. Or, for example, We know well that Martti Ahtisaari, representative of the United Nations for negotiations on the future status of Cosmeta, is a member of the International Crisis Group. We know that the International Crisis Group has an enemy relationship with Serbia and the Serbian state for years and we know in advance what solution Ahtisaari will give when it comes to our most important political and state issue. No one can say it, she said it seems to me to be the president of Sanda Raskovic-Ivić's Coordination Centre and none of the more important officials. So, for free that they have the right and have the obligation, they can't say that. When we talk about Hungarian rights, here's the resolution that's been passed. We know it's done by the script. Hungarians and all national minorities in Serbia have the greatest rights in Europe. There are no such rights as national minorities in Serbia, but no one can say. Ljajic said something at the meeting, but of the most important officials, Vuk Draskovic said something like that, right on the job, Boris Tadic, right on the job. When we talk about Haradinaj, a decision has been made to be able to deal with politics, so as something suspended and will bring it back to him again. No one was allowed to say it was a disaster, such behaviour by the UN tribunal was not allowed, etc. That is not to be said, as no one can say to our President Slobodan Milosevic, the defence in The Hague is difficult, starting from documents to other things, although we know that the policy was right. And now Minister Lalovic is talking about sanctions again. The sanctions were unfair and confirmation and our policy is just these days. Harold Pinter, a member of the association, the international defence committee Slobodan Milosevic, won the Nobel Prize for Literature. Noam Chomsky, the world's greatest critic of the new order, globalisation and everything that's happened in our country, has been named the greatest intellectual of the 20th century, but they're free of all that we're saying. This is a microplan, the right of employees to the employer and the rights and obligations of top state officials to say what is most important to this country. He's got a brightness in these cases. Albania's top state officials talk about how Kosovo and Metohija should be an independent state. No one was allowed to stand up to it, none of our most important state officials. These constant blackmails related to Mladic and Karadzic. This is now a condition for accession and these conditions will keep on increasing. At the same time, English Foreign Minister Jack Straw says Gotovina is no longer a condition for nothing, Croats can finish the process and will most likely be, but it will be because none of our top state officials can say anything. We are just coming to the conclusion that in Serbia, the biggest problem is that these state officials, the highest officials, some are being blackmailed by The Hague, some by tobacco smuggling, we have listened to Momir Bulatovic these days, and we see how this happened, some are scared by themselves, and some are in a permanent vasal relationship. You can recognize anyone in my words. Therefore, something similar is related to this law. So, the problem with this law, we're going to vote most likely for this law, but the problem is that these rights of employees, that they come true, that there's nothing going on because the system has changed, the new Labour Act has been passed, everything is measured according to this Labour Act. In this new system on stage is wild capitalism, all the human values that we supported, which we had during those most difficult 10 years, it's all crossed down as a hand. Therefore, it may not have been the most qualitative comparison, but it is all true and simply this law can only be good in the sense that this criminal policy will force employers to comply with those obligations that Minister Lalovic spoke of, and everything else is a big question mark.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20660	It is my duty to represent this assembly, Mr. Bushetic, that you spoke of the highest levels of government, and you didn't mention the most. When it comes to the highest level of government, it is this assembly, the cabinet is at your disposal. So it doesn't matter what's written in the paper. Let me show you a letter of gratitude from the President of the European Parliament to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for all activities in the previous period, its representative and its committees on the protection of national minorities. So, of course, it stands as documentation. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are few of us left to talk about a law that may not be the most important, but it's certainly important because in a package of those eight thousand pages or how many tens of pounds of material we need to bring in to get conditions to knock on the door of the Stabilisation and Association Pact, and who knows what else and who knows what conditions we still have. So, this law that we've changed our name now, I guess because of the incomprehensible translation of an Anglo-Saxon original, I don't know what's wrong with staying a name -- a law on protection at work, because that name wouldn't change anything, it's not proof of basic washing since October 5th, so let's say. If that's the key change, it would be different from the 5th to now and from now on, then take it away from Mitto, none of it is, unfortunately, the mere change of name is so important. I would also like to say that, if the law that has been in place so far, along with a series of sublegal acts, which you predict that, if they are not in agreement, they will be a little bit more in force by one year, then you will wipe out the powers you have given to ministers, so we are starting from the final page, simply beyond this law, that the minister will bring four or five sublegal acts, which barely unite one eighth or nine powers that the inspectors had under the law under the law so far. So, what do we get? In some ways, I've changed the law that's not better, a law that gives a lot of foggy solutions, fortunately, I've seen both the government and the ministry's answers to the amendments that we've given, so I see that you've created different things in subordination, that closer to the provisions we've offered to the amendments you haven't accepted, because the sausages have been solved in the Labour Act. Of course, that's not true. I looked at and compared it, they weren't exactly solved how important it is to solve the problems of some particularly endangered structures of employees, pregnant women, underage children or people with disabilities or moderately reduced working skills, for which we wanted to tax as much as possible to improve their protection at work. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is clear that it cannot solve the essential thing, and that is the number of unemployed who are rapidly approaching the number of millions. A thousand and a half companies that changed owners did not disproportionately increase the number or quality of work and the quality of life of those who remained to work. So we're threatened by one collapse of every kind. The number of unemployed will be growing. I hear the Chinese will come, maybe we write a law like this for them, certainly if they choose to come work here, they won't look much at their employers or the provisions of the laws that concern even the criminal norms for employers. But when I touched that question and the fact that the standards were enormously raised for the employer, wasn't that a chance for the inspectors to finally get even more here, because it's still a high point. He'll easily agree to take 200, 300 or 500 grand or how much he won't pay a fine of a million dinars. We can see that the inspector has the right to even give advice. I guess that's always, if a normal man is correct for co-operation, without networking and without having to centrally control their work, he certainly provided legal advice and methodological instructions on the spot when he issued solutions to remove something. It's one of his tax obligations here. If that's the part of the qualitative shift, I can understand it, but nothing is guaranteed. Simply, as the inspection services of other authorities, other ministries, that this will be an honest work, it is possible that only one more source of their additional earnings, because their salaries are likely to be low and they are not satisfied with it. I mean, especially the private persons, the privates of the others, will be able to pay the decision, the changed decision of the inspector when out because of this or that helmet or if there's no information on the register, so those who will pass inspection. What I'm saying is that you've done a lot of things in the law itself in relation to previous solutions, and when I speak, I compare the law that was in force and the current laws of the neighbouring republics. There's one in my hand, as it looks, that went deep into the so-called. reforms and where they kept solutions that were very similar to what we had in the previous law. It's a termology change, I agree. We can't talk about some standard anymore, we can't talk about the terms that characterized the employer and the employees of that time, but it could have gone through the amendments to the law, and that thing would have finally been clearly resolved. So, in this bill, there is no longer a tax number, let's say, a very important obligation for the manufacturer of equipment and tools for work, means of working, manufacturer of chemically harmful substances, on the method of transport, storage and destruction of packaging, because the sublaws regulated it. When you remove them, and what the ministry intends to bring, several new four or five sublegal acts, the question is how will this matter be covered. Indeed, you did foresee here that the equipment-provided employer must have, when buying equipment, a accompanying act from the manufacturer that has been defined in several sentences to meet such equipment and such standards. Here the manufacturer no longer undertakes to deliver equipment that is standardised, which has a test of verification, evidence of verification, a methodology of safety testing, are not even counted here, but the minister will make a decision or some other body about how often they will perform, or how much quality and safety of working means will be checked for production, or means of working, say machine. So here it is not in this law, such as the solutions provided for in earlier regulations, which are machines, which are circumstances, which are particularly harmful to health, by work, which are at greater risk. So, they are described as taxing, foggy, just as there are ambiguities already in the preamble of the law, in the part where they talk about what persons are considered to be subject to the law on the protection of safety and health at work. Let's just say there's no mention of persons who can be found at work on the business of visiting civil servants, by the work of inspectors, because these are some of the other faces. It wasn't a problem to put them on at all, because they could be inspectors, they could be business associates, they could be relatives of whoever came to visit their own. For example, a woman comes to a husband who's a director and so on. The other persons the employer knows about: Be careful, then, the wife must announce herself to the husband who is head of the company to come. The inspector won't make an announcement, so if he announces himself, he's going into some kind of emergency control to check something out. So maybe that could have been more specific too. What I'm saying is that there are such elements in this proposal despite the tendency to be reformal, because things aren't fully defined. When it comes to the employer, it's Article 9, where the employer isn't responsible, I'm talking about members who seem unspeakable, I want to make a statement. Because in your answers to the amendments that we've written, we've been going to the momentary details in an attempt to describe closer and identify individual members, so here's the darkness for you to return and describe our remarks. What is this qualification of unpredictable, unusual, exceptional circumstances where the employer is not responsible for hurting workers? You should say then that something closer to knowing about whether it's a weather accident, an electric shock, a current, a thunderbolt, because there's anything that you can do about it. It can be quite widely understood when an employee comes into a legal dispute with his employer and can under this unclear category do much to be wronged. It is also not resolved to take preventive measures, since some solutions in the law have clearly defined preventive general measures and preventive special measures. In preventive general measures, you mentioned workplace measures here, technology measures, quality assurance measures, equipment functions, protection against harmful conditions at work, but special measures are not taxed, and they should concern both gender and age, and work skills, and especially harmful working conditions for individual occupations. If an analysis of the risk assessment is going to do so, then it requires a highly skilled employer, and we see that you refused an amendment in which we only asked the employer to know something about labour technology, not to pass the license. How the government reacts to objections where we're asking the employer to know something. Why would he know something? So if he's an authorized person, he only meets the technology of work, it's a responsible person who has a working relationship and it's a duty to meet. It's very undefined and vaguely placed, employed, understood by this law, employed and then trained by a worker. So, if he is employed and trained, then someone must train him during the process. And who could it be, because not only can the person who's been appointed, as you say the authorized person, so in this part, the authorized person for security matters. It may be a worker who is in that workplace, so working with him, because this man is already dressed, in the best way he who does the same job will help whoever came to work. With our amendment, we put no obstacle to free employment, but we introduce the concept of mutual training of the one who works. Of course, there's a responsible person, who doesn't always have to be there. Of course it's a responsible person who doesn't always have to be there. The employer doesn't always have a responsible person for the matter of protection, you said a dozen jobs and a number of employees up to 10, say, some laws say up to 20, somewhere the minister releases, and when 50 employees, in some legal solutions. It's a good thing we didn't give the minister the authority to save the employer from not having to have a face authorized to question security. But, I'm saying, it's one of those things that's not solved to the end. Training for healthy and safe work, the employer organizes a certain period of time that is not said to be, probably when it is estimated to be capable of the candidate, the employee takes the exam. That exam has one theoretical and practical part, and you put it directly into the law, put it in the workplace. It's quite clear, and we from the health profession have that every two or three years. By the way, the fire protection here isn't even mentioned, except in general, the worker needs to know the ways of the evacuation, etc. That's very general. Some laws in this area very precisely regulate the issue and alcoholism, I haven't been able to see, perhaps that's one word I haven't seen, the question of alcoholism, intoxication, drugs, harmful chemicals. Why did we delete it? Which would be an obstacle to Serbia's European path if it were left, that it could not be alcoholised, that there must be special conditions if it was a fire, how to train workers, how to carry out a particular collective training. It may look like those military exercises they were, it may be, but it's the biggest panic and the biggest accident when the fire comes. We're still running tests in hospitals today. Where do we take the tests? No one lays next to a patient in the room. So the written shape of the test should be laid in the room. He can't go to work, on a scale to fill out a test, in a case, next to a welder, next to a boiler. There you go, like in the "get out of the place" commercial. So it's a small intervention. We're not saying the law is so good that we've been doing petty interventions. These small interventions lead to fundamental changes. The employer needs to know something about the work he's doing with the elements of technology, so not having a license, it's beautifully and clearly written -- that he knows technology, that he knows the basic measures of providing assistance and protection, what the founder would have to know. Because he also meets a licensed person, lays, in a way, accounts in front of the inspector and those before whom he is an employer, therefore, in front of the future employee. I don't see what we had to save the employer. We probably didn't think only of our own, but of the other employers we hope to have, whom we must prepare very smooth and dusty terrain, that nothing, of course, should concern them. Different concepts have also been introduced. I was saying something about the concepts of special working conditions and particularly risky working conditions and special needs that must be met by employees in that place. It's absolutely not separate here. The special medical need to do a particular job is not the same as especially difficult working conditions. In some legislative solutions, it is quite clear. Of course, it is similar, it can often overlap, especially difficult working conditions require a particularly health condition, but we also have people with poor or poor health conditions. They should not even hope to work, as is our basic Labour Act, but since you have predicted that because of the failure to meet certain conditions, the remarks put by the employer, be careful how you put in the law - remarks that the worker realizes that it is not sufficiently directed to prevention and safe work. How long does he have to do it to realize that he didn't, to get the inspector to come to him and say, "Listen, you have a chance, you're not instructed enough, you refuse to work." They'll say go, you're losing your job. You did, there's no right to fire him, but he has the right and employer to call the inspector, so he can convince the worker together, say, that he was wrong when he interrupted work for some so-called so-called. danger. So what if it's about a woman you can throw a firecracker, or a little spark, a burning trash can, paper, she runs away, screaming, and normally looking for a responsible person or a director to report to him that there's a fire going on, that there's no working conditions, because she's estimated to be afraid. We tried to modify the effect that after he tried, proportionately qualified and handy technical means he had, to repair the damage, I was talking about a case of fire, he could leave the place, in any case remain safe. Here, when someone assesses, there's a spark in that compound, I'm out, I'm out, so let what sparks later turn the whole factory on. Now the Borucela factory's gone, the tank's open. So, the worker doesn't need to be forced. To be clear with the law, you do nothing against the risk of being killed, but a minimum of some measures. Then why training? Why get to know and train if you don't have to do anything, but as soon as it's a risk, you run out and the whole company goes, burns down, floods, harmful gases, gases, and I don't know what kind of causes each job carries. So it's not regulated enough again. He can say, "Here, I estimate it's bad and I run away," and the employer says, "Where are you going to run?" You cost me the whole company, your running away. Which at least doesn't try to put out that fire, pour a cup of water, pour a bucket of water on that little fire, not start everything, or move it, etc. It is not regulated, for example, when it comes to the rights of workers in part of their obligations that the worker must also have a certain obligation to, for example, find the workplace neat and orderly leave it. He must be familiar with, say, the elements of protection, personal protection, whether these tools and the means used in personal protection are correct, whether they are numbered, whether his workplace works well. If he finds that it's okay, he keeps working there, when he leaves it has to leave it to a neat job. No one would object to that. In the West, they'd never object. Their factories are clean, clean, pedantic, at least that's what those who work there say, because everyone is responsible for leaving behind the order and the job, the tools, the means to work, the matter, the substances used in the work, which he must and has the right and the obligation to do so. It's one of the things that could have intervened Amendingly to fix it, etc. In terms of engagement, let's say, he has the right to engage in medical work. Some solutions mean that an employer can, when he has 250-300 or more employees, make his own work protection service. Also, he can engage in medical work. But what you have here with the legal proposal, the kobajagi unknowingly, has loaded a dangerous obligation to the medical service, that it is required to participate in the organization of first aid, rescue and evacuation. Maybe it's more logical that he organizes training for such things. Will you be able to do medical work, or some outpatient, where doctors of general practice work, as specialists of general practice, general medicine, and work, perform the functions of a doctor of medical work, so that when a fire happens, let's say, in the flag, a doctor of general practice comes to Knic and must completely withdraw the organisation of all this. Tomorrow a man will answer for it. It costs 400 to 800,000 if that institution doesn't respond, the inspector can punish so much. Even our medical institutions don't have the money to pay for the drugs, the packing material, and to pay the inspectors the fine, because he didn't participate in God's elemental accident. In earlier legislative solutions, it was written -- the employer invites it, invites it, so he arranges it. So, the service of medical work is enough to have, that you taxed 10-15 functions, and to say that it participates in education, process creation, politics, let it also have a demonstration exercise, but not to put them, in a certain way, the responsibility that they must participate in the evacuation process. With what? So you're going to give them sanity. Would you like to buy them some sanity, special equipment? Ideally, he can't wait for Minister Tomic to spend money on the other side without you buying it for him. But the budget is Dinkic's, for nothing, everything from the same register goes. First aid number, one of the remarks. Some legal solutions say - if 20 employees have one person trained for first aid, there is an ideal place for the service. You put that in point 2) - to train for first aid. But point 9) or I don’t know which later draws it a little into the dangerous waters of the medical work. If innocent people were to organize and take on the burden of a flag, whatever it is now, to organize and rescue, evacuate workers, that would be very, very risky. You said - the corresponding number of persons to be sent or trained in the area of first aid. It is still necessary to numerically determine - what does that mean, the corresponding number of faces? Probably that there are 10 employees - catering facilities, health facilities, which you gave in Article 37, where the employer organizes everything himself, that it doesn't really matter here. But there's something he needs to know for himself, he's got to know how to fold, he's got to solve some cut. So there's a lot that's left unsaid in this need to write a solution as quickly and as quickly as possible, even though it's been ticked this year, it might have been possible to fix it, to read our amendments, etc. When it comes to the administration and the institution that you've formed, we think that what she's going to contain is just employees and is not exactly the wisest solution. Be careful, the employer may determine how many people involved, trained for this by the employees, but why not include the employer’s representative or himself, the medical doctor and the other number in that body, not limited to three. The remaining number should always be in excess of the workers trained in work protection and delegated in front of the employees. I don't see what would be the problem with being a doctor of the medical work of that service, the institution with which the employer concluded a contract, to be a member of that committee. As for the administration, I also don't think it was necessary for the administration to form. It's a body that forms a ministry for itself, an administrative-burocratic team. If the minister is going to pass sublegal acts, only right now are helping the lady, but so far we have seen a large number of ministers who have managed to solve all the problems themselves, especially the health minister. He solved everything on his own, without any administration, without any help. I believe you could have done this yourself or helped you with professional services, not a vaguely defined number of employees. There'll be bureaucratic multiplication in the administration. Finally, when it comes to transitional and final provisions, it is said that 30 sublegal acts will be abolished, where the procedures in the case of motor vehicle hararium, machinery traffic, road traffic, toxic matter and so on will be detailed. That's the basis for inspectors to act on. If you remove it from them and replace it with four or five norms, which the minister intends to bring as sublegal acts, and there may be more, then the inspectors will remain mutilated in the source of information and necessary prerogatives for their actions, if all of this is lifted as it was. There was no need to redecorate them yes, but to lift all those instructions for work that the inspectors served, I really think it was too much of a bite and unnecessary risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-20-0.u20662	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. This means that the first will have the word of MP Zivodarka Dacin, then MP Rodoljub Gačević, and then MP Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic, who will be on Monday, October 24th, at 10.00 p.m., when, due to the importance of the points on the agenda, we will continue the debate and will most likely work until 20.00 p.m.
