ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13611	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not sure which member of the Rules of Procedure belongs to what I'm going to say, but I would like to propose one proposal to the President and to this National Assembly, given that today is March 24th, the day when NATO's aggression ends on our country. This aggression, unfortunately, is called the "Merciful Angel" action, in being Satan or Lucifer, is no matter. On that day 19 of the world's strongest nations began aggression on a small country, on a small nation and on the citizens of our Republic of Serbia. From that day on, 78 days uninterrupted, including aggression on the day of the greatest Christian holiday of Easter, the innocent were bombed and many victims fell in that war. It may be that 19 of the largest countries won the war, but I'm sure they've lost their peace. Three thousand and more victims, in the image of officers, soldiers, innocent children, old men, youth and all other citizens of our Republic, fell in that war. So I call upon you, for a minute of silence, in the name of the dignity of this National Assembly, to honor all the victims of this war, and to all those who have become victims of the diseases that came after this NATO aggression. So aggression was in any case and there is no doubt about it. Crimes have been committed and we have to remember it while we're alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13612	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. It's not a matter of Rules of Procedure. I think there's consciousness for all of us. I'm asking you to honor the victims six years ago with a moment of silence. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: In the beastly aggression of the NATO Pact against the Serbian people; what shame are you to say? One minute of silence. I'm not ashamed, I'm not talking for a minute of silence. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milojub Albianic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before the principle search opens, I remind you that. in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group - four SPP MPs and three members of the Social Democratic Party - five minutes each, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives are authorized for this item of the agenda, in front of the SRS - Aleksandar Vucic, in front of DSS - Slavoljub Matic and in front of the SPS - Bojan Kekić. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic and Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13613	Dear President, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, since I am already expressing my suspicion that this debate will be about what is a part of the agenda, because I think it will spread, as it has spread these days to some topics concerning the overall work of your ministry and some other ministries, I must say that in this assembly, the Rules of Procedure that regulates our work has been injured, and I will read it now: "The National Assembly session at which it will discuss the confidence of the Government or the individual member is held at the earliest of three days, and no later than 15 days after the date of submission of the motion for not to vote." You're probably aware that one of the MPs here has filed a motion for a vote of no confidence in you. Unfortunately, this request is obviously not discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group submitted a motion to vote against Interior Minister Dragan Jocic on 7 March 2005, because we believe that the results of his work are not appropriate, or that he does not deserve further support from this National Assembly. I think that you, as one of the leaders of the ruling coalition, should influence the ruling majority and the president of the assembly, who is also under examination of trust, because a claim against him has also been filed for a vote of no confidence, that is to say, to decide on his work. Simply, you should try to influence, along with other leaders of the ruling coalition, to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the National Assembly. Tomorrow, this ruling majority may be in opposition too, like we who were once the ruling majority now in opposition. I know there have been some arguments in the previous session, and I've already heard that as an argument, so I'd like to warn that kind of argument that's supposed to mean the answer to this proposal. So in the previous session, there were, at the very least, strange, inconclusive and inadequate arguments when the opposition was asked to vote on the government's trust or individual member's. I also want to tell you that some past mistakes can't be an alibi and can't justify mistakes in the present. Simply, each individual and every political party is responsible for their work and their mistakes, and I believe this breach of the Rules of Procedure is a serious mistake. So, I propose that, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we make a statement on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, or that the committee responsible be declared. I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, to influence the ruling majority to put the agenda in which it would be decided to trust Minister Jocic, as well as the agenda point in which it would be decided to trust everyone else for whom that trust is set, on the agenda. I'm sorry about the time-out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13614	Thank you. I hope it is quite clear to all of us that we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and by the Rules of Procedure, you cannot, except in exceptional cases, when 126 MPs agree on it, and as a rule, and that is not the Rules of Procedure, based on the agreement of the heads of Parliament groups to interrupt the session. As you yourself have concluded, the deadline is 23. So, today, in case there isn't a session in progress, there would be an appointment for a session on the agenda to discuss the issue of trust with Minister Jocic. As you know, last time we cleared up a dilemma about that statement, and we said, we agreed that the next session would definitely be a session to discuss questions about the established trust. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic. We're continuing our work. Same thing in the Rules of Procedure. And the assembly will certainly declare your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13615	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in article 100 which speaks of the dignity of MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So far, unfortunately, we have been witnessing that MPs are speaking inappropriately to each other, but what we could hear on TV and read in the papers, and what Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said here, speaking of Serbian Parliament MPs, simply exceeds everything seen in previous parliamentary life. Mr Mladjan Dinkic gave himself the right to allow MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly and this high-level legislature, which he and the entire government of Vojislav Kostunica, to compare with public enterprises and to threaten us with the introduction of provisional measures or not to know what sanctions, as was the case in JAT. Does anyone think they will send special forces to the Serbian Parliament, as he sent special forces to the airport hangars, JAT, the Public Enterprise, I don't know, but within the Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, I ask Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to deny that he said so, if he didn't say so, or to publicly apologize to the Serbian Parliament and this high house he chose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13616	Article 100 speaks exclusively of the behaviour of Members of Parliament. Thank you. Of course, during the session, you know very well that you must respect the dignity of all those present and take care of it together. We'll see during this session if it works. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13617	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly explain the law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and the banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans. As you know, a reform of the banking system began in 2002. Some banks, which had negative capital, went bankrupt. These banks owed foreign creditors for previously taken loans or guaranteed companies in the public or social sector, and it remained unresolved that these debts would be recovered. Then the state took the obligation to service the foreign debt. The problem, however, is that it is now paying back external debt, and there is no way it can charge for claims from banks in bankruptcy held by other companies and therefore slows down the privatisation process for both social enterprises and banks. This law frees the fact bank in bankruptcy from obligations to foreign creditors, according to the following foreign creditors: according to the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe, the London and Paris Club and other foreign creditors, in cases where the Republic of Serbia has taken over to repay these foreign debts. So, on the one hand, banks are being released from obligations to foreign creditors, because the state has taken over, and on the other hand, the final debtors, which are legal entities or their legal followers, are being released from obligations to banks in bankruptcy. Business banks, which were guaranteed these loans, are also released from liabilities to banks in bankruptcy. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia is taking over claims from both the final debtors and those claims on behalf and the account of the Republic of Serbia is managed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. The final debtors, under the law, are obliged to conclude a contract within three months of the date of entry into force of this law with the Agency, which will regulate their obligations to the Republic of Serbia and transfer all security instruments to the Republic of Serbia, as they have been transferred to banks in bankruptcy so far. The funds that will be achieved by the collection of claims under the contracts I have now spoken of will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and these funds will be used to meet the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to the abroad, according to the credentials I have listed. So, the law is very short, it's a technical law, but it will essentially cancel the privatisation process of social enterprises, especially those that are in restructuring, which have a lot of obligations to abroad, and banks that are in bankruptcy have claims, on the other hand, towards them. The state will then solve the case by case and will be able to write off some claims to these companies, as otherwise the state pays a debt to abroad, but through write-off these companies will be more attractive to privatisation, and then the state will, after privatisation of the privatisation income, charge part of its claims it takes. So, instead of charging these claims from the bankruptcy of banks, which is very complicated, these claims will be charged directly to the company itself. This will speed up the privatisation process of both banks and businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13618	Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) (Alexander Vukic, from the place: I am the only one reported. I don't think it would be possible, but I'll consult you during your presentation with the secretary. Do you want a word? Mr. Wolfie, you've got 20 minutes. You'll wait. So no one's answering for a word. We're moving on to a debate against the reported debaters. We only have three debaters. The first word has Bojan Kekic, and let Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13619	Fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, since there were no introductions on behalf of the SPS, will later report to counterpart Jovan Todorovic, I must first of all with several sentences concerning the law in question, which is to regulate the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the banks in bankruptcy, to ask the minister to explain to us who is now in charge of taking care of the banks that are in bankruptcy. A concrete example of the Firebank, I pointed out several times behind this speaker, which went bankrupt in early 2002; here, not even today, although it is a development bank for the whole Braničevsky district. It dates back to its existence, even as utility banks since 1956. With various transformations of the entire banking system, we have come into a situation to become one of the most convincing banks, after Beobanka, in the joint Belgrade Bank, with assets that are somewhere around 4,000 squares, with very strong commissioners, who were in Pozharjevačka Banka. And now the owner of the entire fire bank's assets, somewhere around 4,000 square meters, has become the Commercial Bank, which bought it for 156 million. At the same time, the Commercial Bank, through an ad in "Politica", sells the same space or less of the space somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 euros. If calculated correctly, it mathematically determines the correct purchase of the Commercial Bank, the entire property of the Požereva banka is arranged for 200 to 300 euros per square. We all know that most banks are in the center, they have the most attractive locations. My firemen know where they are. For years, more than 30 years, the exchange office was the Belgrade Bank's, or Belgrade Bank's counter, now sold for 3,000 euros. The biggest problem for the fire economy and for the entire population was the moment that Pogorjevačka banka went bankrupt, two years did not settle obligations, i.e. no funds were recovered for both committees and ordinary citizens, and over current accounts a large number of our people received both pensions and personal incomes, and almost a year failed to settle. As for the Pogorevačka Banka and why it went into bankruptcy, or liquidation, it is said of a great guarantee, given that the Pogorevačka Banka was a guarantee to the Czechs who worked on Sekerana, but no one in the bankruptcy proceedings until today, I mean that bankruptcy mass, and surely the Czechs, if they did so, provided the loan in some other way and have no claim to Serbia. One part of that money was a long way from 1993, I mean 40%, settled from the funds of the Fire Bank. More specifically, if we are talking about this law, I have the impression that it can happen for individual companies – such as MIP "Firevac", such as "Vocar Product", which used foreign loans, and whether it was through the United Belgrade Bank, since Pogorjevačka Banka was not a bank with great powers, only later became it – the Deposit Insurance Agency speeds up the privatisation process. I also asked that question yesterday to Minister Bubalo, so I would ask the minister, if he is in a position to explain to us what it means to pass this law in the privatisation process, but according to those large enterprises that are even more difficult to privatise, such as MIP, Fruit Product and others. I believe that if the law achieves these effects, it will immediately be applicable in this privatisation process, that certain companies that owe directly to the Republic, that the Republic, or the state, will become the owner of these companies and that we will thus manage to do the privatisation that is important to these large enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13620	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13621	Let me just answer the questions. As for the Fire-Balaka Bank, it went into bankruptcy under an old law, so that the court liquidates the Fire-Balkan Bank, and later the law was changed and the Agency for the Bank's bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks is bankrupting the largest number of banks, but the Fire-Revka No, because it went into bankruptcy a little earlier, before it was passed this law, and this process goes slower, as you yourself said. However, this way, by adopting this law, there will be a significant simplification and a shortened bankruptcy procedure, for the simple reason that when claims, on the one hand, and debts, on the other hand, are drawn from the balance sheet of banks into bankruptcy, these balance sheets will be reduced and the size of business for the bankruptcy manager will be reduced, the bankruptcy process will be finished much faster. As for specific questions for this company, that is precisely what the intention is, now that the banks are in bankruptcy, there is no agreement with the court, with the bankruptcy manager on the write-off of any claim or conversion into ownership, so the privatisation of many companies is thus stiff. The Agency will now, on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Serbia, agree together, in coordination with the Privatisation Agency, a case by case and can, if a company has a perspective to privatise, and is burdened with old debts, write off those debts, or can be temporarily released, and then charge one part later from the privatisation income, so that the company can be privatised. So this is how the privatisation process, which was blocked because of the current situation, will be launched, where the actual banks in bankruptcy blocked the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13622	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13623	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for the proposed law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans, for a simple reason why we think that, apart from what Minister Dinkic has presented here as legal-technical changes, necessary to speed up the privatisation process and that the state may be able to collect its claims faster, there are many things that are not only vague, but the basis for significant abuses in the future, which we have already become accustomed to in the past. In fact, Minister Dinkic said that it is known to everyone that in 2002, a reform of the banking system in the Republic of Serbia began, that it was then started with the establishment of the banking system as it exists in Europe and the world, and we think that in 2002, but also before, 2001, it was headed for the complete destruction of Serbia's economy, the banking system in general and the destruction of all relatively successful business banks or insubordinate business banks, those which were not directly dominated or the stick of the party, Minister Dinkic or his own. Four of the largest state banks were then closed, without an analysis of the state of these banks, without a single competent assessment of the state of demand for these banks in Cyprus and New York, which completely began to collapse the domestic financial sector. Then the introduction of foreign banks into Serbia's market without any restrictions, so-called. Greenfield projects, where individual foreign banks are allowed, without any restrictions, to fully collect savings in Serbia. These banks are allowed to export the foreign exchange savings collected in such a way to their central accounts and to buy domestic economy and rob Serbian citizens, allowing the government, where Mr Dinkic played a key role. Then we have the establishment of the National Savings Bank, with the help of the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves at Euroaxis Bank, where the interested group of certain friends of the party became the owner of both the Euroaxis Bank and the National Savings Bank, using the deposits of the National Bank of Serbia at the bank. A little later, after we have prepared extensive documentation and perhaps today we will make a record of the duration of the exhibition, show the exact examples of who was saying and what Mr Dinkic said on the Survey Committee, when and how deposits from the Euroaxis Bank will be withdrawn on the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, and how they were once again left for the purpose of destroying the Serbian economy or individual businesses, and to enrich the godfathers of the mafia, Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, and others. Furthermore, we have private handling of the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves and it is the placements of the Euroaxis Bank, which is unlawfully available to state property in the event of the use of the PDO's business space. I think that in recent days you see what situation this is and how what represented the property of Serbia could have been taken and robbed in a perfiduous way. The granting of privileged status to the National Savings Bank in the event of payment of old foreign savings, the granting of a license to trade in old foreign savings bonds, which allowed the National Savings Savings Bank to be a monopoly on the market for old foreign exchange savings bonds, as well as one-off profits through commissions. The establishment of personal criteria in the banking sector in the area of bank control, I am talking about everything, it is all the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of the regime, the previous, this and especially Mr Dinkic. All banks are in the position that one day they can be closed and that Dinkic's criteria always apply, which has introduced complete uncertainty into the banking system. Whether it's just the Dinkics or the Jelasics. Governor Dinkic's discretion to assess the credit portfolio of business banks in the domain of bank supervisory, without any criteria, has enabled him to determine the value of each bank's capital. It's been a while, and now it's in an indirect way. That way, with his free estimate, the bank's capital could be reduced to $10 million. For example, in the case of the Commercial Bank, one finding of the control sector was replaced by another, when a representative of G17 plus was brought to the head of the bank. So everything was possible and everything was allowed. At the same time, it was a way for the directors of certain banks to be put under their full control through blackmail and put themselves in a position to serve their interests uncompromisingly. This type of coverage of the banking sector by G17 plus led to the full termination of any criteria that would objectively define the position of a commercial bank on the market, while at the same time representing complete uncertainty in the banking sector for all committees that would choose a business bank on the basis of these criteria. The uncertainty of committees and bankers is exactly what gives space to G17 plus, Mr Dinkic, that with marketing, his personal and party ties, he defines and develops those banks for which they have direct interest. The best example for this is the favouring of Delta Bank in the situation of destroying the Commercial Bank, as well as some other banks, with which Mr Dinkic and some others from G17 plus did not find their own personal interest. Making monetary policy in a way that directly destroyed Serbia's economy is also the responsibility of this and the former regime. The introduction of criteria in the domain of bank control that only foreign banks, which did not credit the Serbian war-and-spent economy in the past decades, was another principle of the functioning of such a government and of this regime. The destruction of the balance of domestic banks to the full takeover of the market by foreign banks, especially and particularly significant banks, and later you will see why and which banks had special ones, and for which reasons, treatment with the representatives of the government, with Mr Dinkic. After October 5th, domestic banks were placed in an economy that was exhausted by sanctions and bombings. The ten-year period of sanctions has left a daunting impact on the balance sheet of domestic companies. The inappropriate introduction of vasal criteria to such a Serbian economy has led to credit portfolios of domestic banks being exposed to such businesses. The inadequate adjustment of the balance sheet and these banks to new criteria, required by the new National Bank, has led to the fact that virtually most of the balance sheet of domestic banks is sacrificed to such a notion of business banking. Of course, the result of this favouring foreign banks, as banks in Serbia's market came in new, logically and understandablely, had perfect balances because they did not deal with Serbia's economy during the decade-long period of sanctions and wars. Normally, the name of foreign banks, under conditions of mistrust in the domestic banking sector, also leads to the direction of the new foreign exchange savings right into the bank. That is exactly how the collected foreign exchange savings was transferred to accounts abroad by the National Bank without any special regulation, with huge profits in the differences in interest rates, returned to the country and placed on those same citizens and used to buy companies in Serbia, but this time by privileged clients of these banks. At least what the National Bank should have done in these cases is a legislative regulation which, for example, the National Bank would have a control function in these and such placements. Then, the discretionary right to open up, or to close banks, is with one man. They don't apply the same criteria for everyone. It's completely privileged to treat his banks. Believe it or not, in some banks today's governor of the National Bank is directly mixed in bank management, not talking about assets and passives, they're not talking about bank balances, they're talking about having good or bad management. What does that have to do with the governor and the finance department? It's not clear to anyone, and no one can know that alive. The killing of Serbia's economy continues through the banking sector, which is why the best Serbian firms, due to the criteria of the National Bank of Serbia in the domain of supervisory supervision, are declaring themselves poor customers. Applying the criteria of the National Bank of Serbia in the domain of supervision, without any previous analysis, has led to the best Serbian firms also declaring themselves to be high-risk customers in the balance sheets of domestic banks. Of course, like these companies, they lose their credit ability, because the banks stop lending to these companies in the next phase. What can small and medium-sized enterprises with curved balances hope for, due to an unrealistic course in the conditions of business under sanctions. Of course, all of this together incapacitates the domestic economy and makes it a risky debtor. All this leads to the complete destruction of the Serbian economy. This is the most perfided model in banking theory, because in a sophisticated way, through business banking, and because of the regulatory central bank, the entire economy is being destroyed. The closing of domestic and foreign banks which are not his or her will and will of G17 plus, and without clear and precise criteria, it completely ruins the investment environment. Many swear in Europe, in European terms, in European values, and the investment ambience as if it were deliberately and deliberately collapsing, choking, and I simply think that this is what all citizens of Serbia are seeing today. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, if I've interrupted you, I hope I'm not long. Mr Dinkic's discretion at the position of the governor of the National Bank enabled him to assess what domestic banks would do, which they did not, and not to apply the same criteria for all. The closure of several domestic banks, without understanding and clear criteria for all, has led to a loss of confidence in the domestic banking sector, resulting in a complete turn of clients towards foreign banks because of fears that some of their banks could be closed overnight. Dinkic, by means of Mr Jelasic, stopped not only at domestic banks, but spread the experience to some foreign banks that did not have the green light by Mr Dinkic to become the owners of individual banks in our country. Fresh examples are that serious foreign capital is found in front of a dilemma of what to do next, in conditions where there is no prior announcements of the closure of the bank in which they invested. This completely impairs serious new investors to think about some investments in the Serbian economy. For investors, the most important criterion, the criteria of stability, is absolutely impossible to achieve in conditions where one man assesses what is good and what is bad capital. At the same time, the lack of phasing out in all these actions brings foreign investors into a position to refrain from any serious investment in Serbia. Simply put, he is a man who accepts only investors who have concrete passes for the Serbian economy, which he has betrayed. You know how those passes get. In this way, because of the lack of criteria, there is simply no climate for serious investors, because they cannot predict at any time when someone from G17 plus, just for their known reasons, will cancel their hospitality. The failure to resolve the Cyprus affair, to submit a report on how and how billions of dollars have disappeared in Cyprus, is also a serious problem, not only for the entire banking system, but for Serbia's overall economy, for the society in Serbia and for those who guaranteed, so they found huge money, more than $4 billion in Cyprus, hidden money from Serbian citizens. And then that money magically disappeared, and you know that money is always traceable and impossible to hide. But it seems that he was no longer there because it was a democratic robbery of Serbia, as you will hear and see, but I will talk about it in particular in the second part of my presentation. Domestic bankers don't know any day in the country of Serbia what G17 plus can do to them, but neither foreign bankers, foreign investors, or people who would like to do business with this country anymore. We in the SRS parliamentary group believe that not only do we have a record foreign trade deficit of $7.4 billion, not only, according to the IMF, this represents an amazing 45 per cent of gross domestic income, but the current payment deficit of over 13 per cent of gross domestic products mentioned in the report, because in December of last year alone we had additional problems, not only because of these reasons, but because of what the future of Serbia, the future of the banking sector, can't accept this bill either, but also the way in which the government of the Republic of Serbia and G17 plus conducts politics itself. The deposit insurance agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, whose director was, I am talking about that moment, Ginić Vesna, chairman of the Board of Directors Labus Miroljub, and members of Mladjan Dinkic and some other experts and experts, I am talking about the time when the collapse of the entire banking system, as some say - kept a goat cabbage, was then first extinguished by four major state banks, but let's see how and how. The consequences for our country are hard to predict and difficult to assess. About 10,000 workers were out of work, with Beobanka about 3,800 workers, with Investbanka about 2,700 workers, with Jugobanka about 1,900 workers, Belgrade Banka 620 workers, JK and Slavija Banka about 480 workers. If we single out only the South Bank of Belgrade from these banks, we will see that this agency for the production of its balance has been attributed and placed on the burden, to help bury it more quickly, the debts of the following banks: Commercial Bank, Continental Bank, Jugobanka Podgorica, Jugobanka Kosovaska Mitrovica, Jugobanka Bor, Jugobanka Kruševac, Jugobanka Kragujevac, Jugobanka Belgrade and others. Many of the listed banks, and after that they continued to work, just changed their name. The total debt of the Yugoslav Bank of Belgrade under credit obligations was also entered by the debt of those banks, which amounted to around 900 million German marks, in due time, and was shown exclusively as a debt of the Yugoslav Bank of Belgrade, in order to ease and push it into liquidation as quickly as possible. It's the easiest way. You have a problem - you have to solve it. When you don't have a problem, you liquidate it and you don't have any more trouble. That's how problems are solved in our country. In doing so, this huge debt to abroad has not been reduced by a cent. If it is known that our delegation, led by Miroljub Labus, of the London and Paris Club, has won a large write-off of our debts, the question is, who are the debtors of billions of dollars to abroad and who have been reduced by liquidated banks in total debt, if it is true that these clubs have forgiven us so many billions of dollars. Or the state took it upon itself in advance, and now the state will by this law take full action capital and action funds from individual companies, whether RTB Bor or some others. When I say state, I don't mean state, because it's about the Agency once again controlled by the G17 Plus Party, and all major enterprises in the state of Serbia will, in an indirect manner, become their property. What is fate and what will happen to hundreds of thousands of square meters of the most exclusive half-life space across Serbia that was owned by liquidated banks. Not even today is known, but it is known that the vast space, on an unknown legal basis, at unknown and unclear legal regulations, has the National Savings Department, and now I hear that it will go into possession at incredibly low prices and in an incredible way. What about these banks' equipment? What about the fleet, thousands of phones, resorts and other assets that were created over a few dozen years before that? According to the provisions of Article 12b of the Sanitation Act, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, the Agency was to make a new decision on the recovery if not one year after the date of the decision on the recovery of banks in the recovery does not bring its financial part of the share capital and relevant business indicators with the provisions of the federal law governing banking operations. This provision of the law is not respected, as banks were left with a deadline of only about six months, instead of a year, from July to December 2001. The winding-up procedure began since January 2002, which apparently corresponded to someone, a team before they were interested in bringing these banks back to life. Then I will show a copy of the documents of a certain Mr. George Mullinks, who issued orders on how and how to deal with these banks, as well as in what way, in whose name and for whose account these banks should be destroyed and destroyed. It should also be noted that the South Bank of Belgrade, as a centre for all those banks, was the first debtor to abroad and its obligations to ino-partners were covered by 100% of the country's claims, precisely from banks that remained mostly intact at the time. To go so far as to ignore the debtors and release them from obligations towards the former central one, to find that the South Bank has an ino-debt that cannot serve and in this case represents absurdity, as well as in other banks. As we can see, today Mr Dinkic and how he cares about the claims of banks in bankruptcy and is looking for what belongs to them, and there was no time to wait then, to go to rehab, to heal banks, to settle those claims as far as possible, and to save what is ours, what the citizens have created for decades. Such an example of neglect of the balance sheet, in this case in the South Bank of Belgrade, has not been recorded in banking so far. By all criteria, Yugoslavia's assets from 31.12.2001 were larger than the total passport, so more could be talked about the surplus, which the ino-partners knew, accepting its guarantees irrevocably, believe it or not, as first-class ones. If Dinkic and his supporters wanted to sacrifice only a bank that was pushed out of debt to abroad, then the intention obviously did not come true, because today the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens are still at peace. This debt is growing, regardless of the stories of the discharge of debts of the London and Paris Club, and the question is who will in the future and how will be able to repay all that we have owed, not only in his time, but even before, even in communist times. Also, a similar game took place over the liquidation of the remaining three largest banks -- the Belgrade Bank, Beobanka and Investbanka Belgrade. Belgrade's bank a.d. Belgrade was in the same situation as Southobanka, as it granted guarantees to daughters against ino-reliances and was the first debtor, but in the country's related banks received guarantees under the same conditions as it gave abroad. Thus, the balance sheet balance of the Belgrade Bank, when it came to ino-debt, was fully covered by the country's guarantee. If other elements in the balance sheet of the Belgrade Bank are looked at, it can even be determined in layman's view that the Belgrade Bank also had a significantly larger activity than the Passives and, from 31.12.2001, showed a positive result. If you remember, there were attempts at forced entry, some bandits with black socks on their heads went into the bank, tried to take it, tried to take over all the paperwork, all the papers, that they were doing what they wanted. But there was someone who threw them out. They found some who stood up to a five-octobaric manner, drove them out. It was their mortal sin. Having driven them out, they were no longer allowed to exist, they were no longer allowed to operate on Serbia's banking and financial markets and therefore had to be shut down in such a brutal way. The investment bank a.d. in Belgrade had an absolutely equal activity with a passive and its ino-debt essentially 80% related to "Sartid" Smederevo, EPS, JAT Belgrade and the railway. Only 20% represent the obligations of the other committees. It is these giants, who have huge strategic significance for the whole country and for all citizens, who have served Mr Dinkic and others to play with debtors to abroad, the Investbanks, the good work and the Belgrade Bank, and so it occurred to them to eliminate debtors to the outside world and cut off, as they say, outside creditors. In the end, only citizens of Serbia, our banks and people who were employed in these business banks were cut off. It is interesting to point out that Ivestbank in 2001 sought to resolve some of the court disputes in the country and thus become liquid, and to meet all its obligations in the country and abroad successfully. No dispute was ended, everything slowed down, on purpose, on the political line it was imposed on judges not to take part in the end of these disputes, so that they could not collect some of their claims and end up more quickly and better with liquidation. This obstruction gradually led the ruling oligarchy to the impression that Investbank was unable to operate liquidally, so it happened that the liquidation of large giants was amnesty and showed the people that the new government was protecting the economy from liquidation and that it was helping them. As it helps them and works, I think it showed up last night when the police broke in and dispersed the strikers, dissipated people who were just asking to have their own salary. And some who won't pay them, they won't give it to them because at any cost they want to lower the value of one of the most powerful and most important enterprises in our country, so they can buy it for themselves and for their friends. A bank with 140 years of tradition was sacrificed. It was a treat of the regime, a treat of those who boasted of their legality, the major changes they bring to the country, a god-awful improvement for Serbian citizens. When it comes to Investbank, there is no relevant criterion, not according to domestic or international indicators, which would lead the bank into liquidation. The aim of the Agency, Mr Dinkic, of all others, was to categorize the bank's biggest debtors in the most risky group and thus show 160 billion dinars of potential loss in the Investbank as if there were no debtors and thus gradually go into liquidation and layoff of employees. The debtors, of course, couldn't wait for a turn like this, so the malts feel as if someone had written off all their obligations. He did not write off their obligations, because in this way, by this law today, which we adopt, they become only partly owners, and majority owners will become people from G-17 plus, who will through the Agency manage the Action Fund and the company actions. The negotiations on the partial write-off of ino-debts ran and continued with the big pomp. Citizens are represented as something that will bring them much good, as something that will make life much easier for them. The only thing she didn't care about was our banks. He didn't care about the Serbian economy. It can only be assumed that when there is a final reprogramme of all debts, with credits of at least regular interest, and dues of payments, as well as the service of obligations, when the debtor's bank is no longer there, when the economy, which is the debtor in 90% of the cases, does not feel the debtor, because in this way they have been amnesty, and now it is sought, first of all, the ownership structures in a strange way, and not only privatisation, as the minister pointed out today, then the burden, of course, will fall to the state, which by no criteria will it be able to bear, or will bear very hard, because even so far a part of these, which have been so amnested in the previous three years, have changed both the names and owners. Some of these companies don't exist anymore. The question arises who will repay so much debt to trustees abroad. It is absolutely certain that this will indirectly represent some new Horses and Dafina and to remind those who accused and someone in the SRS, they were created with the support of the coalition partners G-17 plus, and the SRS and none of us had anything to do with it. Now, as I have told you myself, I have brought to show you (in hands of material) an internal memorandum for Serbian citizens and for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - December 12, 2001, for Vesna Djindjic of George Mullinks, is the subject of the bankruptcy of five banks. The following are several items that need to be considered as soon as possible - teams for five banks, and you will hear orders have been issued to destroy Serbian business banks. It is recommended that we have bankruptcy management teams for each bank, drawn up, as follows: team leader, lawyer, closure manager and balance-opener, liability manager, asset manager and building manager. Listen now, please -- the director of the South Bank of Bor bank has agreed to stay, if and when the bank is in bankruptcy. If he has qualified men among his workers, they should be chosen. If the bank doesn't have qualified men, then we need to get him people from the agency's employees. Two -- Zoran in "Yugoban" said he wasn't interested in staying as a liquidator. We should name someone in that place. Maybe Zoran can recommend someone from the bank. In doing so, I'm going to ask Zoran to recommend other people from the bank to help the liquidator. Three -- I believe you chose a new director at Beobanca, and he said he was interested in being the liquidator. I'd like to ask the staff to pick him out of the bank's current employees. Four -- I understand you don't think the current director of Investbank has the ability to be liquidated administrative. If that's true, then we should choose a person and help her choose a team to help her. Five -- I think you have confidence in a new person at the Belgrade Bank. We need to confirm that he's interested in being the liquidator, and assuming he's interested in choosing a team that will help him from current bank employees. The wardens and their staff should be trained, including six or seven people we would hire from interviews Oliver and I conducted this week. Bill Thomas leaves Belgrade on 14.12, and David Parker on 22.12. Thomas does not return until 4.1, however, David returns on 28.12. If possible, it would be good to use Thursday and Friday this week to train the staff of these five banks while Bill Thomas is here. If that's not possible, then David will conduct training next week and during the end of this week. Here we now have, therefore, various NGOs formed for the destruction of the five largest state banks, and which also submitted their statements to the Constitutional Court, their complaints. As far as we know, the Constitutional Court did not answer, because the Constitutional Court is an ordinary political institution, unfortunately today in Serbia. It is managed by member G-17 plus Slobodan Vučetic, a man who was never interested in law. He was always interested in politics and how and how the sooner and the better his political skin to sell to someone, in order to get a more significant place, with as much pay and as much income as possible, and never to norm it, he was never fundamentally and really not interested in legalism. Now we're going to give a few more information to certain banks. This is only half an hour as I speak. I'm planning on using the whole two hours, if you don't mind. Well, since I see... (Minister leaving the O.R.) I'd like you to stop my time. First, I'd like someone to chair the assembly session, and I'm sorry Mr. Minister left the gym. I was very cultured and civilized the whole time I was talking from this pay phone. I have not spoken a word of insult, and I would only ask that you allow me or that someone is chairing the congregation, if there is no more... I'd like to ask you (to the Secretary of Parliament) to stop my time. I'm gonna get off the phone and I'm gonna wait for the president to come back, or someone he's authorized to run the session. Please stop my time (votes - here comes the president).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13624	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13625	Mr. President, let me inform you, I spoke for about 30 minutes, so please take this time away from me. Thank you for understanding. I'm sorry if I interrupted you in something important. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we've been told here many times how we're not telling the truth, how we're dealing with some half-actions or forgeries, I've brought here a criminal report to the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, the street of Slobodan Penezic Krcuna. 17a. As you can see, the document is a copy of the original. Dusan Jukic, from Belgrade, was signed with an apartment on Radnička 24th Street, and filed a criminal charges against the defendant Mladjan Dinkic, vice president G17 plus and a certain Slavko Vukajlov from Belgrade, and against five male defendants whose identity should be determined in the course of this criminal report. Namely, the crimes covered by this criminal report did so on 6 October 2000. The full description and legal qualification of criminal offences that have been committed will be able to be precise when all relevant facts are established. For the time being, the applicant of this criminal report provides a description and a legal qualification of the crimes that the defendant did on 6 October 2000, based on the facts he knows. Mr. Albianic, please don't throw it at me, because very civilized and in the most beautiful way possible I explain what you've done and done. What Minister Dinkic does not have and does not want to hear, it seems to me that he speaks much more about Mr Dinkic and the government itself, because it is obvious that they have no patience to listen to a reasoned and civilized criticism, without even a single insult. Obviously, the facts hurt the most. May I have your attention, because I'm reading something very important. So, it is said, I will go to the crime scene description: "On the day of 6 October 2000, all the defendants, armed with helicopters, except Mladjan Dinkic, who had no visible weapons, threatened Svetozar Lazic, the security coordinator of the NBJ, and two other security workers in that bank that would use arms - heklers, if they did not allow them to enter the business building and the bank in Bulevar of King Alexander 15 in Belgrade, although for such entry they had no authority because they were not workers or bank officials, so bank security workers were forced to suffer the unauthorized entry of the accused into the said business building. So, with a serious threat - murder and bodily injuries, they forced other persons to suffer something, thereby committing the crime of coercion under Article 62(2). The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. In assessing the seriousness of the threat, it should be borne in mind that the accused were more numerous than the bank security workers, 7:3 in favour of the defendants, and that the accused were armed with helicopters, and the workers of the bank's security to guns. On 6 October 2000, the accused Mladjan Dinkic, as the ringleader and others accused, were actively involved in a group of seven people who worked jointly by threatening workers of security by the use of weapons, violently and unauthorizedly entered the business building of NBJ in King Alexander 15 in Belgrade, and were in the cabinet of the Director-General of the foreign exchange and payment services sector with abroad, with threats from the present workers, unauthorizedly seized a list of operations in the last nine months and other files and documents and documents of the NBJ, including files and IDs with a code of secrecy. So, the accused Mladjan Dinkic, as the group's ringleader and the other accused, as group participants, participated in a group of people who committed serious violence by common action, thereby committing a criminal act of participation in a group that commits violence under Article 230. KZ Republika Srpska, and that is Mladjan Dinkic of Item 2 and others blamed under Item 1. On 6 October, in the cabinet of the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Legal Affairs of the NBJ, one of the defendants, whose identity is currently unknown, armed with a heclar, told Assistant Director General Dusan Jukic, the applicant of this criminal application (I will not read everything because of the swearing and brutality of these most cultural and civilised leaders in Europe), do not let us... (Now goes that forbidden word), give us the data, so we don't take you out with our feet forward. Following such threats, some of the present workers, including Dusan Jukic, agreed to give the unauthorized persons official records and IDs to the NBJ. Therefore, it has threatened the safety of the damaged Dusan Jukic with a serious threat that he will attack the life or body of the damaged one, which has led to serious consequences - the release of official documents to unauthorized persons, thereby committing a criminal offence to the security of Article 67(2). The KZ Republic of Serbia. The applicant of this criminal report suggests that, in connection with the crimes covered by this report, witnesses are heard: Svetozar Lazic, NSA security coordinator; two security workers who attended; Dusan Jukic; Predrag Tonkovic; Darinka Kocic; Trifoni Vesna; Goran Nikolic". It is interesting in the mentioned Mrs Trifoni, she was scheduled to testify before the Survey Committee, which was educated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the NBS deposit at Veksim Bank, or Euroaxis Bank in Moscow. So this lady suddenly sent us a letter from the doctor so she couldn't show up. Of course, she was under pressure and blackmail from the NBS. She can't show up because her mouth and throat are drying, so she's not sure how or how it's going to work in front of the Survey Committee. In addition to this criminal report, there is also a second criminal record of a larger number of applicants. (President: Please do not disturb the speaker. Mr. Wolfie, continue. Mr. President, I'm not disturbed by anyone but you. Please don't do this in the future. So, in addition to this criminal report, there is also the preparation of another criminal complaint by a major group of applicants on the abuse of the official position of the accused Mladjan Dinkic, as governor of the NBJ, during the transfer and dismissal of workers to the NBJ. Now I'm going to give you a few examples of how someone is dealing with the care of their parents, and some of them with the greatest care possible and directly contrary to the principles of the Fide Bona, according to which state officials might behave. Namely, this very extensive documentation is only documentation about the Vojvodjanska Banka, which for several reasons has grown to the heart of the G17 Plus party. Why? Because the party wants to take over the entire Vojvodina economy through the Hungarian bank OTP, where Radovan Jelasic, who wants to buy out the Vojvodjanska Banka, is employed. What's this about? I hope as I speak, since I have a lot of material, Mr. President, that you will inform both me and the National Assembly why Mr. Minister left the session. I don't know which one has better things to do today than to represent and represent his law before the MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So there's been a clean-up at the Vojvodjanska Banka... of suspicious placements and write-offs... and a cover-up of everything that's gone missing in the bank. The value of her capital was reduced by 98% in one day. This destroyed the balances of all companies -- the owner of the Vojvodjanska Banka stock from 100 to two dinars. For example, "Parmalat" in Italy experienced it with 70%. As you know, it was a European affair, the whole state and government were shaking, dozens of people were arrested. In our country, none of it all and almost nobody's interested. The privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka is planned, phased, for several years and slowly. First, the capital goes down. It was done a year before the conversion of the insignificant debts of the Vojvodina Bank to the 1989 International Financial Corporation, waiting for the matter to lie down in a certain way. Secondly, the International Financial Corporation will, as planned, become co-owner of the Vojvodjanska Banka this year by the end of March. The write-off was 75% of $160m compared to 98% of the Vojvodjanska Banka wrote off to its shareholders, thereby reducing capital to two percent of the total value. The mathematical claim by the IMF has increased 12.5 times. The protocol was signed in October 2004. Mr Dinkic still keeps him with him, has shown him neither to the government nor to the Assembly nor to the public. It's obvious there's a good time waiting for that story to be swallowed up and gone without any consequences. The third final blow is the second half of the year and the tender sale of the Vojvodjanska Banka. Of course, the tender will be secret, and the bank will buy the Hungarian bank OTP. One is the owner, and one is the physical person, and the manager of that bank is the governor's own brother. The plan is to take over the Vojvodjanska Banka, OTP together with the International Financial Corporation in relation to 80%:20% and thus the entire Vojvodina economy. The bank also has mortgages and claims on the entire Dukean economy. Mr Dinkic did not want to write off a dinar economy that received write-offs after the embargo, war and bombings, but all the write-offs were seized by the law he had passed in the Federal Assembly, completely against the law of the state, more specifically for his financial-expert organisation. Today, by accepting this legislative proposal, which is on the agenda, only this powerful financial oligarchy from G17 plus would be further enriched, and the state would still be the last hole on the play. Here's how it works. In the list "Today" from Wednesday 13 June 2001, just to see how there are different arches, different relations, Mr Dinkic said that although the National Bank of Yugoslavia did not receive the final account of the Vojvodjanska Banka, Governor Mladjan Dinkic denied the inscriptions that she was threatening to shut down because he wanted it for himself. It says -- the Vojvodjanska Banka is the best and only one that will survive without state aid, because the bank will soon conclude a business arrangement with the International Financial Corporation and gain an even better basis for successful work. Further, you have what the representatives of the Resistance themselves in Vojvodina have said, that in time even Branimir Nikolic, you know him, one of the leaders of the Resistance, accused the leaders of banks that participated in crime and malversions directly to the dams of Mr Dinkic and Djindjic. You can see the whole title. Then interestingly, from another one of you respected newspapers, I read only a fraction of the text in which it is said - Dinkic forgave the Vojvodjanska Banka for forging the final bill for 2000 at the height of 93 million marks. We also have Mr Dinkic's answer to that question. Mr. Dinkic says - it was a period (those who are impatient, let them come out, I will speak for another hour and a half, if I endure) when all the banks really faked the balances. The control carried out by the NBJ determines the balance on a bank's balance sheet, and then, based on potential losses, there's a real balance sheet. Totally amazing, but you see, it was and the rest is possible. It shows how, who and how he was all interested and remained interested in the Vojvodjanska Banka, and it was all known to be one single relationship, which is the G17 plus and the experts at its head. It's also an interesting case with the sale of the first corporate bank, because then there was an exercise in bank sales technology. Namely, Radovan Jelasic, as vice governor for control, sends control that manipulates the classification of loans reduces the bank's capital and then forces them, under the current threat of obtaining permission, to immediately sell a yet unfinished building in the city centre of 2,500 m2 of HVB bank by bookkeeping value, i.e. I think you all know, for a very funny sum of money. The building is in the center, next to Prince Mikhail, and sold four times below the real market price. Jelasic, a little later than the same bank, receives the post of CEO of HVB Bank. It is the main order for Serbian citizens to know that such things cannot exist under positive laws and cannot be justified. Just when I thought everything else was gonna be okay, the next blow came. The new control of the National Bank of Serbia, again under the leadership of Jelasic and Dinkic, the First Enterprise Bank is each paid, so believe it or not to the EPS, which, as you see today and today, Haraju Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, are harassing because you have entered a combination with them, this plasma EPS, as well as other public enterprises, has been categorized as risky and for these amounts of re-reduced capital to three million marks, far below the censorship for banks, since then seven million marks. The first enterprise bank was again forced to be saved with a recommendation from the National Bank of Serbia, the majority must be recapitalised. With who? Of course, NBS advises them with LHB, LHB is a Slovenian-Austrian anonymous bank, which serves to launder money, as well as these banks in Austria and Slovenia, through which they laundered money. It is a complete washing machine, from Euroaxis Bank and individual Slovenian, Austrian banks, to the National Savings Bank here in Serbia, which organised the top of the previous and the top of the current regime. So, I said it was the LHB Slovenian-Austrian bank, which transfers from 10 million marks of recapitalisation to its three founding firms, by moving the funds from one LHB bank account to Frankfurt to another newly opened First Entrepreneurship Bank in the same bank in Frankfurt. Money has never even entered the country, and the entire leadership of the PP bank has been replaced as unpleasant and unpleasant witnesses. All the loans that the NBS declared to be non-refundable were charged in the entire amount after that, the risk was not, but by the control of the NBS was all made up, and for the new owners it was a net profit, they bought a bank without dinars, they bought a bank and gained a huge profit without even a single euro invested. We have here an example of the destruction of the credit-export bank AD Belgrade. I hope it has not been destroyed for some political or national reasons, and you will see that economic reasons, business-banking reasons, were not. The man brought us all the material, brought us even the material of the auditor's house, which analyzed everything and brought all the data and all the papers from all the controls that were carried out how, why and how that bank was destroyed. Namely, the Credit-Export Bank AD Belgrade hired Ernst and Yang to carry out a review of credit portfolio – Ernst and Yang, as you know, is one of the world's most famous companies, I should not especially explain to you, with much greater credibility and legitimacy worldwide than "Diloj Tuša" and many others, even of those four largest Ernst and Yang is the most famous – i.e. the deposited banks, money and capital, with a state of 30.9.4 and with a condition on 31.12.2004 and to check whether the bank has executed the classification of debt claims in accordance with the decision on the criteria for classification of balance assets and off-balance sheet items according to the rate of charge at the level of the special reserve of banks and other financial organisations. Therefore, the agreed procedures are only carried out to assist in assessing the validity of the credit portfolio accounts of capital assets and these procedures are fully and in a perfect manner implemented until the end. They found, therefore, that by taking into account the documentation related to the bank's stock trade on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which was carried out in 29.9.4 years; opinions of the Attorney's Office related to the analysis of the documentation were also provided. Executing the accounting and other documentation relating to the position of the bank relating to the same day, an insight into the cash situation shown in the accounts, accounting for business indicators according to the member of the team and team. They got and checked the classification of 50 of the bank's biggest debtors. So everything they needed they did in the best possible way. They proved to have an incomparably better and bigger activity than a passive one. Their balance sheets turned out to be perfect. But someone wanted to free up more space for their friends, for their business companies. The government of the Republic of Serbia received material, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, in agreement with the IMF. And that's interesting information, we've never heard in public, we thought that they were themselves great experts, great experts, and we see that these were part of everything that happened, not until the end, because these people didn't participate in all the combinations, of course, but they told them exactly how and what steps on certain issues to take. So you can see how to run monetary policy and exchange rate policy, otherwise classified material is top secret, and I can't even disclose it completely, but the point is that direct orders are received either in a way or in a way that destroys this country's banking system. The signatories are the reception of the material Mladjan Dinkic, and the conclusion of Miroljub Labus, because they are authorised to carry out such criminal actions against business banks in Serbia without mercy and until the end. There are also those banks that, I would say, are extremely connected to our country's financial oligarchy, to the G17 plus, and they're obviously all blooming in this country, and they're making progress and they can do whatever they want. That is the case, and we were able to see it through the media, especially electronic, but also printed, as the big door announced the sale of one of the To God's domestic banks, and it was presented as a big investment job for our country, because it arrived around 250m euros and 280m euros, respectively in Serbia, and it will benefit Serbia's citizens greatly. It's about the sale of Delta Bank to Italy's Intesa. And what behavior we've had. After many agreements, we had the title -- successful sales, the largest domestic bank sales -- to Serbia will enter 277m euros. If that were true, it would be really good information and it would be nice for the citizens of Serbia. Part of it would be reinvested in the banking system, thereby returning to our business and small and medium-sized enterprises, thus seeing, if nothing, great benefits from more significant employment of Serbian citizens. However, what happened: 86.36% of Delta Bank owners are not some Belgrade firm, not some Serbian firm, not some firm, as presented. He owns Hemslede Tradingltd from Nicosia without any traffic or property. I brought that to you to check, it was downloaded from the banking system site and all the banking data, to take a look. So, participation in Hemsled Trading Itd Nicosia 86.36%. So no single dinar has entered this country, let alone 277m euros, nor will it enter. What do you say next? They say it's a big incentive for domestic economy. Whether the former and current governor don't know, or if it's something else, who's real and who's the real owner of this bank where the percent is. Does this mean that they've never controlled that bank, as well as the National Savings Bank, whether it means that we have again the involvement of false or fictitious capital from exotic islands, where some of the accounts of some of the people we're talking about here in the Sessel Islands, I don't know which, and it doesn't really matter. It's connected to that job I was talking about the other day. I brought all the paperwork, because some of them didn't believe me. So, this financial oligarchy in our country sets up another powermaker in the same way, but in every place in this country, wherever there is a lot of money, they place their people as leaders of these houses, of all agencies, of all the securities commissions of value, the Agency for Rehabilitation and Banks, the Agency for Deposit Insurance, the Serbians, to the Galenika, and to every possible place their people are placed. And why is that? To see how it's connected, it's always done the same business everywhere, always and everywhere with the same companies. Don't tell me it's impossible or that some of it's wrong. I have here a report, i.e. a letter from the lawyer's office, one of the prominent Belgrade offices, the Galenika Management Board, where the question is asked, namely, that an offer of two million euros for certain things has been accepted, instead of an offer of two million and 600,000 euros, means 600,000 euros, respected MPs, someone puts it in their pocket. I'll read it to you correctly, and I'll give you accurate information. We have been informed that at today's meeting, your company's board of directors intends to adopt a decision on the sale of construction facilities in Belgrade, at a location between the streets of November 29th and Djura Djakovic, Prolek. The traffic facility would have been sold to Delta for 150 million dinars. As the pronoun of Delparser, who participated in the previous selection for the best bidder, according to a published ad since 5.5.2003, we draw your attention to the following things. The amount offered and which according to our information should be accepted by the Management Board at today's meeting is incomparably lower than the amount our client offered in the previous tender. Namely, our client offered a price of 2m and 600,000 euros, while the company offered 2m euros. Your company's board of directors, by its decision of 26.12.2003, made a decision not to make the choice of the best bidder because of the offer of inadequate prices that are significantly lower than overestimated. It is possible that six months ago, two million and 600,000 euros were inadequate and lower than estimated, and now the price of two million euros is adequate and acceptable. The Management Board has repeatedly called and annulled tenders for the sale of the above-mentioned immovable property. Each of these tenders was attended by the same firm and could never win the tender. And, as it ends, not a public tender, is not the price of the most important element of the contract, and it is finished, behind the back of the public, behind the back of Serbian citizens. All men from G17 plus. However, here I have brought contracts to the Delta Renter, service contracts, some supervisory board, etc. Let me read it to you and let me explain to you, they're, in fact, no minister, calling a public tender for the purchase of small-litre vehicles, 50 plus four, so 54 vehicles in total. The tender included those who "needed" to get a job, i.e. when I said "should", you understood that it was under the assumption, I'm sure they understood Serbian citizens, but their offer was more incomparably favourable than the offer of another firm. And then, since it couldn't go through in the tender, because some of them knew it could make them go to jail, go behind bars, they didn't want to agree to it, then a Solomonian solution came along, we don't even think about buying vehicles, but we're going to make a contract to rent a vehicle. I brought a lease contract concluded in Belgrade on 28.12.2004. It says here, please listen, Article 1 - the creditor rents, and please don't throw away, completely civilized, calmly just explaining why we disagree with the proposed law, and if you have something, go out for a pay phone, you'll have plenty of time. So, Article 1 - the bookkeeper rents 50 vehicles for a period of five years, with contracts to be renewed for a year, in the quantity and type of vehicle according to the specification, which follows:fiyat punto 1,2 16v dynamic, 45 pieces; fiyate diablo, panorama 1,9 dssh, 4 pieces; fiyate cargo 1 piece. This isn't all of a surprise. He's got a member of 2. The amount of the monthly rental for vehicles, which are the subject of the lease and this contract, according to a valid company pricer of 12,932 euros, without VAT. Add to that mandatory VAT and calculate it, 250,000 times five years, so at an annual level, so plus VAT, more than 1.5m euros, much higher price than for new vehicles, ladies and gentlemen, much higher price than that of new vehicles, the same vehicles that they bought. But that's not all, ladies and gentlemen, because the tenant is obliged to pay the tenant the amount of monthly rent regardless of the distance for the rental vehicle and the other costs charged for using the vehicle at the current price list. They also made a commitment to all repairs at the service centres of the same company. So they can't go to Master Zika, they have to go to the same firm they agreed on. I can't go to some other favored firm. And then they agreed on something else, that all the expenses, insurance costs and everything that happens to the vehicle, the full amount of damage paid by the tenant. Dragan Uskokovic and Dragan Stipcic signed it, and you Serbian citizens watch where the property of Serbia goes, as well as how it all happens. Now we're moving on to a very important topic, which with special attention I want to talk about. It is about how and how the banking system in Serbia was destroyed, exactly the opposite of what the minister was talking about this morning, until he lost his patience and left the assembly hall incorrectly. So I am now reading parts of the Council's anti-corruption report, not the opinion of Alexander Vukic, not just what the SRS was saying, but what is the official report of the Anti-Corruption Council. The case of access to the business space of the PDO to those who used it in the previous three years, including the National Savings Bank AD, received the largest squares in the capital centre, and the state of ownership, is precedent and in any case the allocation of that space points to corruption at the highest level. That's what the Anti-Corruption Council says. For her part, the government responded that there is no reason to suspect, and that through a new transfer of actions owned by the Republic of Serbia, the states will again become the largest individual owner in the National Savings Bank. Something like that didn't happen until today. Until today, this has not been done, the state is still not the majority owner of the National Savings Bank, but the godmothers of the Mafia. You know how, through a money launderer. The Anti-Corruption Council also announced the following -- a contract establishing the National Savings Bank AD signed on 25 December 2001 by representatives of 13 legal entities. The founding assembly was held on the next day, December 26th, 2001, when a decision was made to issue the first 364m dinar action. The largest shareholder became the Yugoslav Bank for International and Economic Co-operation of JUMBES, with 38.46 per cent shares, three founders gained 9.62 per cent of shares, Beopetrol, Ju Guarantee Bank and Toza Markovic AD. Now they list others, as it belonged to the Eurosalon, which is the one who was recently arrested for an affair around the VIP salon at Belgrade Airport, those are 80,000 dinar carpets, of 60,000 dinars and ficuses of 40,000 dinars, a tablespoon of 650 dinars, and I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of dinars of artistic painting. For one night, everyone is released because today they equip cabinets with individual people in the government of Serbia with their furniture and individual ministries and agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, because of such corruption, Serbia is today, unfortunately, in a commercial slave. At a session on 20 May 2002, the Bank Assembly decided to issue a second 180m dinar emissions. The biggest buyers, with over 80 per cent of their actions broadcast, are Belgrade's Squadra companies, Pima, Principal Export-Import and the Daeners Club. Behind the first two lies the Warrior Lazarevic, with his head and beard. Both companies are, of course, related companies and this is indicated by the Anti-Corruption Council, not Aleksandar Vukic. These companies are related companies, suggesting more facts found in the report of the Money Laundering Prevention Authority. Related persons made the purchase of shares through the National Savings Bank's foreign exchange account at the Euro-Acsis Bank in Moscow. It's all without a substantial transfer of money, only papers made in a fictitious way. In a fictitious way, fictitious papers take over the entire economy of the Serbian state or at least its and what a significant part. Since I have five extensions, I have to read you the most important parts. There is still a new show, a new issue of action, and who participates in the third issue of 300 million dinar shares? By the day the action's show was closed, only two companies, the "Little Collective" from Belgrade and "Elim" from Vienna, which paid for the action via the "Euro-aksis" bank in Moscow. You know who owns these companies? Who owns the small collective? Wolf Hamovic. So, the second show of Vojin Lazarevic, the third Vuk Hamovic. Who becomes the illegal owner of a huge part of business space in Belgrade and across the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, this is part of the second part, and it is said that without a tender, the National Savings Bank has been serviced, about 84% of the old foreign exchange savings of 4.5 billion euros, so look at how much it is and how it is. It's here. It's an unusual role of the Euroaxis Bank. Since I'm two hours away from forgetting to tell you something. In June of this year, National Bank Governor Radovan Jelasic, contrary to previous Governor Kori Udovici's announcements by Minister Dinkic at the polling committee at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, again makes it not to withdraw deposits, or foreign exchange reserves of our country that are not held in the first-class bank, but in a bad bank, which by the criteria does not deserve it, and they continue to hold $28m in Serbia's "Euroaxis" bank, according to the latest decision by Radovan Jelasic. Why? Because that's where their friends own it, too. And guess what, the co-owners of the Euroaxis bank in Moscow are Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. The Anti-Corruption Council says -- the unusual role of Euroaxis bank. It's that bank where they sent a journalist from RTS, they gave him 2,000 euros to contribute to attack all those who are fighting against such a magnificent bank, so good, and those who are to withdraw funds from the bank's foreign reserve deposits. The most interesting traffic was made on September 13th 2002. At that time, only in one day, four related companies received from the company Koprom 1.2m euros from Vienna. They immediately sold the funds to the National Savings Bank, which paid the dinar equivalent to Atlas and Sosite to the bank. These two banks returned the same amount to the National Savings Bank on behalf of the recapitalisation in favour of the companies mentioned above. Finally, the National Savings Bank transferred the amount paid to its account at Euroaxis bank. With this complex operation, in which money was not even involved, but only papers, the related companies gained 88.16% of the other shares' emissions and thus reached a 37% stake in the bank's capital. The account holder of the initial payment of Koprom also has a foreign exchange account at the Euroaxis bank, the order was paid as an advance for the export of corn, and no corn was found and no export business had occurred. Ladies and gentlemen, let me not read further how and in what way new privileges have been gained in the work, how sophisticated crime has been committed, how the Banks Act has been abused, especially Articles 8, 9, 10a, 12, 15, 19b, etc., because most of these things the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not need to know, but it is good to hear it. We are now coming up with interesting information from the closest associates of those who have not agreed to work in such an anti-constitutional and against the law, as Vice Governor Stojanović, almost fired; Mr Jelasic said that the vice governor resigned because he was soft; this is a quote from Mr Jelasic - in Serbia problems are solved only by beating. That's what Jelasic said in public. By the way, he said he wasn't here to play football handsome for an eye, but to score goals. What does Dr. Dusan Stojanovic say himself? He says he felt that the NBS must not at any cost allow it to be used for daily-political purposes and that no NBS move should be directed towards individual banks and other participants in the financial market. However, with the arrival of the new governor, all clear on behalf of the business, this mentioned principle of equality in front of the supervisory little by little transforms into a new version, which is roughly - all banks are equal in front of the NB, except that some banks are more equal, he paraphrased George Orwell. They couldn't agree on one member of the dispute. I don't have much left, about an hour, don't worry, I won't be long. So around one member of the disputed could not agree, despite a number of meetings held, the controversial member Mr. Stojanovic intended to abolish, as the disputed member was concerned with the privileged treatment of individual foreign banks that allowed easier access to the foreign market compared to domestic banks. But then came the pressures and attempts to give up on Mr. Stojanovic's intention. But the pressures continued, they did not stop, and in the end Mr. Stojanovic was resolved. Not long after his resolution of the foreign bank, and it is about HVB bank, believe it or not, bank where Mr. Jelasic was already director, it gets, by law, the right and the possibility of so-called. accommodating business, castodies of the so-called business. value balance of paper. The bank was given the consent of the National Bank to perform castodys of business, although it did not have a level of capital projected as minimal. Moreover, the request of the bank was first rejected because it did not satisfy many other conditions that were explicitly stated in the NBS requirements. Of course, what is particularly interesting is that all these sessions, not by chance, especially the most significant ones, were attended by Minister Dinkic. To hear again, to return to Euroaxis bank. It's very important. It is said that there is no way to assess how and how Serbia's state property is being robbed without being dragged into the Euroaxis bank, as Mr Stojanovic insisted that the privileged position be abolished, primarily by authorised exchangers in relation to business banks, because they take a special rent and charge otherwise, have an advantage over business banks. But they didn't mind, and they kept that privileged position, better known as "rent siking." It ends behind the curtain, you don't know who's got how much money in his own pocket. Further disagreement is about the Euroaxis bank because it is registered and operates in Russia, and the NBS has no formal control over it. However, the NBS at the Euroaxis Bank holds part of the country's foreign reserves, which were to be returned by the end of this year under contract. However, international practice states that the country's foreign reserves are held exclusively in banks that have been assessed by global, credit rating agencies as the most qualitative and safest, which certainly does not apply to the said bank. However, the Euroaxis Bank informed the NBS this year that it could not repay the rest of the $28m debt and was respected. The governor disagreed with my proposal and a statement was issued explaining it, given that a number of our banks are holding their deposits at the Euroaxis Bank, that we must continue to hold deposits in such a bank. How many of those who participate in this dirty business, how much money directly belongs to them, will hardly ever be able to determine anyone in any way. This is also about the supervisory sector and how and how it all works. Here's from one prominent "Economist Magazine", not a yellow print, he says -- great attention has been given to the fact that the resignation of two vice governors coincided with the delay of Euroaxis bank's liabilities that $28 million, held by the NBS as foreign reserve in Moscow, returned to the owner, i.e. NB. It was also important because of never the end of the enlightened role of this bank, i.e. Its co-owners, Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, in the privatisation of the National Savings Centre, in some agreements on electricity trade made by the EPS, etc. I brought here the complete documentation that I would like to show you, which you can see, how and how the Foreign Affairs and Relations Sector works, how foreign exchange reserves were managed and the basis of engagement, whether through the Commercial Bank, or electricity, as you can see, twice 10 million dollars directly for electricity, directly on the hands of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, the money of the citizens of this country, this Serbia. No one's ever denied it. No one's ever said anything about it. I've got a dysponibilities table here. That dysponibilities table shows exactly how much for everything we've been saying we were absolutely right. There are also the signatures of previous governors, as money was left in Vexim Bank, which is the legal predecessor of the Euroaxis Bank. I hope this won't last much longer as a reality in the Republic of Serbia. Now I have prepared what is called already everywhere in Serbia a very popular - democratic robbery of Serbia, so I will read you parts, talk about parts and show you special documentation. You'll see, it has nothing to do with the book, but I already have every document, with my seal, with my signature, with many very, very important things. I will first quote what Mladjan Dinkic wrote in his book "Economics of Destruction" to all Serbian citizens, to all his readers. Says Mladjan Dinkic in the fifth, supplemented, 1997 edition of the following - the state was bringing its money to sacks (i.e. to think of its coalition partners), while others had to settle for purses, bags and suitcases. However, regardless of all the differences in the way the foreign exchanges were transferred, the destinations were usually the same for all passengers - Israel, Greece, and most often Cyprus. The informal state stand for acceptance, storage and dispatch of collected foreign exchanges was "Belgrade Bank". It criticises its coalition partners again. To make the irony bigger, the entire operation sought to carry out as legally as possible, so that with sacks adapted and severances are based on data from fictitious foreign savings contracts. There were even names and foreign savings listed. So he goes on to say -- money was first laid in the accounts of the "Belgrade Bank" in Cyprus. On the eve of the September 24th election, G-17 promises to recover stolen money from Cyprus (seems to accuse its current coalition partners, without which they would not rule Serbia), to start the economy, to make money to start the economy, and that it will serve as a momentum for social recovery and progress. And then it was clear that they would take these finances, and some people, including Djordjevic, visit the organisation of G-17 plus, and there is also receiving it from Predrag Markovic, and then he announced that the leader of the National Bank of Yugoslavia would be one of their leaders, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, as well as that an investigation into the socialist couples of your coalition partners, I apologize, should have co-ordinated Mr Sasa Vitosevic, as suggested, future agriculture minister. In contact with Mr. Markovic, expert Djordjevic is getting new information -- that an investigation into the full funds of your coalition partners, which your coalition partners, at one time today, will be taken from Serbian citizens, according to your claims, according to Mr Dinkic, that the action will be conducted directly by Mladjan Dinkic. (Glasses - where's the money? What? I don't know. Now I'm going to tell you, I'm going to read it all to you. Dinkic says it was that money. I'm just saying what Dinkic says. So they went into action to get money through Cyprus. Mr. Dusan Lalic, directly related to G-17 plus, is appointed by Mladjan Dinkic, is starting to publish figures and data on the way the money was delivered and on the persons involved, which was fully in line with his statements and claims during the pre-election period. In December 2000, Dinkic already has full insight into the archives. He also knew other important details about our money he received when taking over from Dusan Vlatkovic. He was also informed by foreign governments, U.S., British and German, of the missing billions. But Dinkic is already calling for an international bureau to control foreign funds, although such a bureau does not exist. It's about "Oces Proasset Control", which is part of the U.S. Treasury Ministry, not some international institution. This office provided all the necessary information and then Mladjan Dinkic comes out in the press and tells us that he has found huge money in Cyprus. And then he says he's going into a big fight against crime and he's going to find the money that was robbed by the people and the citizens of Serbia. Mladjan Dinkic in "Blica" said on June 14th 2002 -- so far, no one has asked me to find information about a search for money that was exported from the country to Cyprus, but if that happens, I am ready to submit a report to the SRJ Assembly. However, it is more appropriate for Serbia's MUP and the judiciary to ask for data as far as the Cyprus account investigation has arrived. And in Serbia's MUP, at any time, they found that they had no idea, but that we should ask only Mladjan Dinkic about it. Mladjan Dinkic received a special report from some people in December 2000 as well as how the money heist was committed. He warned that the "Belgrade Bank" documentation in Cyprus was particularly important. In particular, attention has been drawn to the need to place a ban on the availability of money to companies that are de facto property of the Serbian state by unauthorized persons, foreigners, lawyers, offices - Tasos Popapoulosi companies from Nicosia, whose role will be described in a special way and more detail. Now, it is very important to say how and how some other actors, also the coalition partners of Mladjan Dinkic, are involved, in the whole story. The case of Velimir Ilic, minister of capital investment, is particularly important. And he entered into the next story and asked the Serbian authorities to allow him to travel to Cyprus, to investigate what was happening, and in 2002 he decided to see because he received information that Dinkic stole the money, and now you will hear what Velimir Ilic said. Accompanied by Mr Mladen Spasic of the MUP, Oliver Bogovec of the National Security Service, people from the NBJ, Velja Ilic's way of the island is printed. There they meet persons who show or offer to show Velimir Ilic copies of the accounts that have $1.3 billion. These are, we assume, the same sums he saw and the expert mentioned here, Djordjevic, with two bills, billions and 300 million, with the third of the 285 million Velimir Ilic obviously not getting an insight. The people who offered him help sought first and foremost anonymity for themselves, and then a commission of $10 million. That fact indicates that these are not the same people who have previously shown these documents. It's indisputable about the same amount of money. And here's what Velimir Ilic says in the Witness. He says -- there were, quote, involved some people from the Cypriot MUP and then the governor of the Cypriot National Bank, Exentius Aksentis. The fact was made known to both Americans and their embassy, which were expected to be aided in action. Dinkic called me and told me to give all the information to him and to anyone else, that he is estimating it and that I only file a report on his arrival from Cyprus. Why -- you'll hear. That's what happened. I told you on my way back from the road to Governor Dinkic what I heard, saw and experienced. I told him that the governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus was involved in the affair, that he was a key man and that he was personally waiting for a plane with his Mercedes and carrying money to a Cypriot bank. It was all in the documents we saw in Cyprus, and who was piloting the planes that people were coming to, the numbers of their passports. So I told Dinkic, who immediately went to Cyprus and contacted their governor. Me and all the other members of the delegation have called off and told us that we are no longer working on it and that this is from that moment on the problem of the Serbian government. This is where everything breaks down, and no one ever mentions the money, or all the documents we came up with. Velimir Ilic, in the same conversation, also announces that Mladjan Dinkic has never informed Prime Minister Djindjic, who asked himself - why he was not informed of the findings they had received in Cyprus. Velimir Ilic, therefore the minister in the coalition government, says the following -- I own the document, with Dinkic and Mihajlovic's signature, which clearly states that I have all the powers to seek money. It's all withdrawn, since I told you what I saw and what's in the documents; how can we take them, where to put them? I was told in Cyprus that the documents later took over - who; this Lalic. No one knows if there's some kind of deal with the governor. (This is what Velimir Ilic says.) Even the translator, who was with me in Cyprus the whole time, took hold of his head and wondered what it was doing. This is a figure of around $1,300,000, in various hidden accounts, which have disappeared, transferred to some Russian banks and elsewhere. "I've been given a warrant not to talk about the knowledge we've come to, and I've been silent so far," says Velimir Ilic in his own time. "When this information began to run through the newspapers, Dinkic reacted and would, of course, accuse me of asking for a large commission." Ladies and gentlemen, who asked for a large commission, but 1,300,000 euros are gone, 1,300,000 people of Serbia, the people of Serbia, due to someone's commission, obviously, are gone. He says, "Dinkic reacted and that everything would lie down, of course, accuse me of asking for a large commission, and in fact, the commission was sought by people who wanted to protect themselves from the potential dangers of the Cypriot mobsters." Here's how Dinkic's role with the missing Serbian billions was pro-commentated by Velimir Ilic in the Sunday Telegraph. Here you have a special document on Dusan Lalic's business in Cyprus, from the Cypriot newspapers, in English. It is said: "Milosevic, covert of continuum" and "Dusan Lalic is the weakest link", in the title, and below you have in your signature, a Cypriot financial weeklyer reporting on the activities of Dusan Lalic and the strange silence of Serbian authorities. It says: "From Serbia to Cyprus $11.5 billion has been exported, 7.5 has been spent on paying various commitments. Why is Dinkic hiding where the rest is? "Ladies and gentlemen, where are four billion dollars? The three-time minister, Serbian Prime Minister Velimir Ilic, asks that of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. We are asking the same question - where are four billion dollars of money from citizens of Serbia? Here are the documents on the Cyprus accounts. Now I ask you to hear the next story, it is important to all citizens of Serbia. Director Dusan Lalic, who ran the main business and the whole business, a friend and member of G17 plus, was asked: "Is a single dinar of billions that, under the current coalition partners of G17 plus, have been released from the country so far?" "He replied: "The Swiss authorities assured us that they would soon publish the names of former senior political officials, owners of two accounts. "As if, God forbid, he fell from Mars, Lalic commented and said, "It is not in the jurisdiction of the NBJ to conduct investigations and interrogate the suspects. "Everything they came up with, he added, he handed it over to the D.A. and the D.A. By the way, the D.A. and the D.A. didn't hand over anything, not a single piece of paper, absolutely nothing about it. But listen now. The journalist immediately asked Serbia's MUP authorities: "What is going on with the investigation of the Cypriot couples and whether you received documents from the NBJ. "And the answer of the MUP was revealed, "Ask the Lord of the NBJ what they have given us and when they delivered. We never got any of them." So that's where they get mixed up, believe it or not, by chance, you remember that Mr. No-No-Collesar. Now, this one appears in that story, and another one, related to the Antexol Company, money laundering, Cypriot accounts. It's no accident that one of them ended up in the Sessels, others on the Marshall Islands. Since there were warnings at the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and were presented to them on 10 September 2001 the facts about the fate of our money in Cyprus, immediately this woman was relieved of her duties and brought to her place: who - the person we talked about from the beginning, which is Vesna Ginić, a direct friend and directly connected with Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus. It should have been fooled, according to the expert report, that the money owned by the Belgrade Bank had disappeared, and thus the state's report. We have the case of Nikola Zivanovic, who, in co-operation with Slobodan Acimovic, who were in BB COBY in Cyprus, at the time the bank was working, went into the making of incorrect reports, to warn any demand from the state through companies that de facto belong to it, and above all the companies "Antexol" and "Brancord". In 2001, Slobodan Acimovic conducted an analysis and a list of companies established in Cyprus under the control of the Belgrade Bank. This document served Dinkic and his investigators in Cyprus. There's a fraud on the spot right now. The report outlines the claim that Atnexol was closed in 1999. This notorious untruth was written that the Belgrade Bank would not accidentally have any claims through the company, and those claims would go to billions of dollars in Serbian citizens' money. That is why it was necessary to move, as you say, into reforming the banking system, i.e. to shut down, bankruptcy and final liquidation of the Belgrade Bank, so that no one alive could ever understand, find out and find out where, how and how the money went missing. However, in a document presented by the lawyer's office, Tasos Papadolus, to the Cypriot court during 2000, with the company's seal and the signature of so-called. Antexola's director is confirmed to have the lawyer's office, Tasos Papadolus, represented "Antexol" in court, in a trial conducted against the company. In a document passed to the Cypriot district court on July 7th, 2003, they claim to be the legal directors and legal representatives. So, in July 2003, the company exists and is managed by legal representatives from Tassos Papadolus' Attorney's Office. So it's quite clear from what I said that someone hid and took huge money from Serbian citizens. I don't care if Dinkic was accusing his coalition partners today, whether he was accusing this or that. I don't care how they have the nerve to support him today. I'm only interested in where the money is from the Serbian citizens and when the money will be returned to the Serbian citizens. It is a fundamental issue that is of interest to all Serbian citizens. He was supposed to be interested in Mr Dinkic, but he's obviously got something better to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13626	Mr. Vukic, since the time has elapsed for the MP's group, will you continue as an authorised promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13627	I'll save it for the afternoon, now I'll just have two or three minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13628	Final word? Are you going to use that part or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13629	It's not the end word, I have a lot of papers left to show.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13630	Here, start using the first ten minutes. Bring the end. You're not gonna use time now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13631	So the SRS cannot accept this bill and cannot agree that reforms have been carried out in Serbia. The consequences of accepting this law will be further the destruction of our economic system, its further disintegration and, I would say, the collection of money in the hands of political and financial oligarchy in Serbia. They will in this way de facto become the owners of our companies that are in debt to our banks. They will, through the Deposit Insurance Agency, via other agencies, allegedly state authorities, and in fact their party cells, exercise full control over the state of Serbia. That's what I'm asking you to stop, that's what we expect from you, honourable MPs, and I know we have the support of most Serbian citizens for this. Most citizens know that what we said is true, that what we said is true, that this legal project is not accepted. I expect and hope that in the future there will be more understanding by the minister, that they will not give to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that they will not give to the MPs, that they will not give to their political opponents, because everything we have spoken, we have said, in a polite manner, very civilized, but we have spoken to the facts, specifically, the arguments, as we can and how we want you here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to convince the truth of our claims, while also wishing that all other citizens of Serbia know what this is about and what we can do. Thank you. I hope I wasn't too long, and I'm sure and convinced that another two, three, four or five hours that I've been saying, it wouldn't have been enough to point out all the bad consequences of the regime's rule, everything that G17 plus brought to Serbia and everything that Minister Dinkic himself brought to Serbia. Serbia needs change, Serbia needs first of all a fight against corruption, and I am convinced that Serbian citizens will live incomparably better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13632	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Is he here? No, it's not. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the initial search is concluded, kindly allow me to hold a session of the Rules of Procedure, let me finish the sentence, therefore, before the opening of the principled search, ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to do so, but we will continue on the hourly break, because there is currently no quorum. We'll continue the session at 14.55 p.m. [[After break – 16,20]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. According to official records, 158 MPs attend this sequel. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronic voting system units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have a quorum to work with. We have been standing by in the morning work, do the final words of the representatives, the authorised representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups want? Yeah. ) The word has Alexander Vucic, authorized for this point in front of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately I have to realize that the Government's representative is still not in the Assembly room, so with regret, because I wish that the correct and concrete questions were answered in the same way. I also wish he could have heard his fellow Members, MPs, representatives of the legislative authority, because it represents a kind of elemental order. You know, we at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at least thought well of Vladan Batic, but we respected that he endured and was here one of the ones whose shift was being discussed, unlike some others, who not only cannot permit it, but cannot hear a single word of criticism, because they either get sick or think they can't listen to such nonsense, or simply don't want to hear a single word against their majesty. Anyway, thank you for letting me speak in silence and pay attention to my two-hour talk about this law. The SRS parliamentary group will not support the proposed law because we do not think it is a legal-technical solution to the problem of the claim, i.e. to collect claims from individual companies, and on behalf of the state and for the account of the state, and to the finality of what once belonged to the shut-down and liquidated banks, for the simple reason that we consider it a major risk of taking over the entire Serbian economy from the financial oligarchy in the Republic of Serbia, above all from the political party G17 plus and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as Cypriot money is concerned, I just want to keep you going, or I'd like to point out a few important things to you. We were talking about the Antexol company and how some of them said that it had ceased to exist since 1999. And why was that important? So, in no way would they get the money from the citizens of Serbia, which has been transferred from our people to Cyprus. I'm sorry, Mr. Aligrudic, I'm very sorry to interrupt, but I may be a little less focused, because I've been talking for two hours, and you're a little too quiet and you won't respond to crime. So, it is said that the company "Antexol" existed in 2003, and this document that I have already shown proves that Dinkic, Jelasic, Nikola Zivanovic and Dusan Lalić knowingly represented Mrs Ljiljana Radenkovic as the sole culprit for all crimes and crime committed on behalf of and through "Antexol", in order to exclude the possibilities of the Bank's connection with its natural betrayal as Antexol company, and that never that kind of claim could be charged. So, what has undoubtedly been proven, it is a billion and 300 million dollars, who knows how much more, and it is estimated to be up to four billion euros that it is. Interestingly, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and Deposit Insurance also warned about the Cyprus money situation on 10 September 2001, and its representative, Radmila Markovic-Milutinovic. Immediately after her decision to do something serious, Dinkic and Labus, who brought their man, replaced her. And who? Today we talked about how and how she handled bank recovery, or bank liquidation: Vesna Ginić. Labus and Dinkic have already prepared the ground for the liquidation of banks in Belgrade, Belgrade Bank, Beobank, Invest Bank and Jugobank so that there is no natural and legitimate search for funds from companies in Cyprus. That's why our claims, that first point I was talking about today, were nowhere in Cyprus, New York, other foreign countries, so where it could have been clear and how to compare the assets and passports. And the balance sheet would be incomparably different from what they were showing it to the local public, and they used it to liquidate banks. When the Belgrade Bank was liquidated into bankruptcy, funds belonging to the Belgrade Bank were not entered and are on the accounts of companies, their sub-companions in Cyprus, and particularly exotic islands. In a play presented to the Cypriot court on July 7th, 2003, under oath and certified court fees and signatures, the lawyer's office confirms that the company "Antexol Tradeltd" is under their control, that they are responsible for its work and activities and that the directors Mario Seliades and Kirjakos Theodorides, and also reject any request by lawyer Pavelos Angeliros, who represented Radmila Budishin as the owner to step down and not represent the company falsely and illegally, which remains its de jure property. So, they clearly say, it is the Belgrade Bank and in doing so, Labusa, Dinkic, Jelasic can qualify in a variety of ways, which falls within the domain of judicial professionals. How it came to be that Labus, Dinkic and others decided to take such a big step. In April 2001, when Dinkic's team raised dust on a visit to Cyprus, they came to return $4 billion from Cyprus, it is clear that the Cypriot authorities immediately offered co-operation, only to avoid jeopardising the reputation of Cyprus, which at that time was approaching EU accession. Papadopulus, apparently, also offered them a deal, because with the truth of what he would do in public, would be closer to prison than a presidential chair. According to the Cypriots, Dinkic was recommended, do not dig for "Antexol" and companies, and according to what happened later, Dinkic was obviously warmly accepted by the proposed recommendation. Our question to all -- where are the citizens of Serbia's money? It's a key question for a few reasons, because one has to put an end to this affair. I know some people in this room don't care, I know they have better things to do, I guess they're just waiting for this point to end and say the job's over, but I'm asking you to be so straight as to listen to the end of those who think otherwise. So, we in the SRS believe that once and for all, we must put an end to this affair and know that we had money from our citizens in Cyprus or not, who is responsible for why that money was not found, even though there were all channels and promises that money would be returned, and those who stole it would be charged and would answer to justice, and that the citizens of Serbia would be satisfied. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will not be provoked by those who don't know what else to do, because they have to support what none of them would support, but what to do to them. That's their thing. As for the money in Cyprus, I am delighted to inform you that unlike many others, no one in the SRS has a single dinar in Cyprus. I'm very happy about it, but I'm not happy about the fact that I know and that we all know that there's money for the citizens of Serbia, but it's based on other people's names, on a few citizens, on a few people, and who knows how many of them they took and took a commission to keep quiet about it and never to know the truth. Those who keep quiet about it, those who hide it from the public, those who try to say in every way that thieving is worth it, crime pays off, corruption is welcome, these are not Serbian citizens' friends, and you will eventually have to face justice. Don't throw it at me, I look forward to your replica, I'm delighted with your attitudes, your genius, and there's no doubt that your replica will be quite like that. As for the banking system, the financial market and what is obtained by this law, I must say that in the financial sector almost all the key positions, almost all the command positions, controlled by the same political oligarchy, the same political group, are almost everything that is managed in Serbia and commanded by significant cash flows, significant monetary resources, located in one single, in the G17 plus and, of course, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are still some power centers from other opposition circles, but these are more foreign power centers than domestic ones. After the collapse and destruction of the entire banking system, the collapse of the financial market has begun to be a final match with insurance companies in Serbia. Anything not under direct stick, under direct command, under the direct control of those who are today the top of the government of the Republic of Serbia, had to be closed, it had to stop working. Namely, the governor of the NBS, using the official position, took over 18 insurance companies' licenses, used the authority of the National Bank of Serbia to control the work of insurance companies and this number of insurance companies forced them into liquidation. At the head of the team that was in control and made a major contribution to shutting down insurance companies are the same ones that closed domestic banks while the governor was Mladjan Dinkic. It is obvious that some have not even mastered the business of controlling insurance companies, since eight were taken over and 21 were subsequently employed for the control of insurance companies. The tenency of the NBS governor shows that Serbia's financial system must be destroyed, and it can exist and survive on Serbia's economic scene only what is under the direct command stick of Mladjan Dinkic. I have brought here a record of field control, to see how much ossion the relationship can be towards the citizens of Serbia, in the same way that the minister has shown today by his boasting attitude towards the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, because he does not respect their word, he does not want to hear what they think about it, and I am surprised to you that you are sitting, and from other parties, you accept the role that you do not have a representative of the Government on such important agenda points. Namely, I've brought in a report on field control. On the basis of Article 128(1), The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Tax Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration -- the New Belgrade branch, drafted a report on field control. Here I bring you an example of a small bakery in New Belgrade, Bulevar Arsenija Charnojevic No. 175a, at the Hit Bakery. In the time between 14,35 and 16,00 hours, in the presence of the owner, control was carried out and because for a 15-dollar dinary dinary, it's okay to be punished, it's okay to have a fine go for it, but it's not right that someone can't work for a month, because you're giving 30 days' sentence to people not to work. A 30-day ban has been imposed that a man cannot open his bakery, that those who work in that bakery cannot support their families, their children and think about their future. In the same way that they treat everyone in Serbia who wants to think differently, who does not want to be directly controlled, so today they treat us here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I brought here a lot of contracts, a lot of applications, a lot of things that prove it in different ways, but what happened with the shutting down of four major banks, what happens today with the attempt to privatise the Vojvodina Bank and some other banks, especially with illegal and semi-secret takeover by the Hungarian OTP Bank, with the complete takeover of the entire Vojvodina economy, and through this law and the complete successful economy in the social and state sector. Because now that we have data around South Bank Bor, around Belgrade Bank, Beobanka and other banks, this way, G17 plus de facto will become the owner of the Mining-Topinist Baseline Bor and many others, making mining resources, which other strategic resources in Serbia, just because certain banks, which have been shut down and liquidated, have had their claims, i.e. in time, to some companies, social and state firms. It's something that needs to be prevented today in Serbia, it's something we have to show the citizens of Serbia, that we have strength and ability, that we have the will to say it. We were all expecting to talk to the minister here today, but the minister didn't want to. He may have expected someone to swear or I don't know what to say from the pay phone. Since he didn't, he was surprised and didn't know how to respond to concrete and civilized accusations, because Serbian citizens want to ask how it is possible to send a gendarme to attack JAT workers tonight. Are you doing this because JAT needs to be privatized, so why would someone want to belong, or because I don't know what? What's going on in Genex and in a lot of other companies? Do you know how many Genex employees there are today? Believe it or not, four employees. They moved to another company, and now they're going to go to privatisation, and only business space goes to privatisation, 4,000 square meters in the main building, in a tower in New Belgrade. By an employee of 4,000 square meters. What are we talking about here? All I'm talking about is the main building, 4,000 square meters per worker, and somebody's gonna say it's not a robbery, it's not a kidnapping. It's a public ad, the press has published, the Privatisation Agency. It's something nobody in Serbia can accept, it's something we can't agree on. We in the SRS feel that things should be carried out to the clearing. We can love each other or we can't love each other. It doesn't matter. It's our job to present different ideas, to have different ideologies, different world views. It's our job not to agree on key political issues, to conflict, to face each other. Better me than the citizens of Serbia. It's our job to tell each other what's wrong and sometimes it's too much. It's our job, because we're paid for it, not for the citizens of Serbia, but it's our job, first of all, to deal with thieves and deal with those who took part in Serbia's robbery. I will read to you what is the conclusion of today's promotional book "Democratic Robbery of Serbia", to hear what the author says about how and how he had to answer the question why there is no money in Cyprus, where it is and why the new, to God, democratic government has failed to do so. He says, why doesn't your new government come to Cyprus, shake a hand on the table and shit? We want the money back. This simple question of an engaged Serbian citizen, ashamed and ashamed, was always answered by an even shorter and simpler answer: "Because it is corrupt and thieving". Despite the extraordinary efforts of the hired expert to try to find at least one excuse that could give any other answer, other than this above, pressured by a huge number of evidence and inconclusive, facts and conclusions, these efforts unfortunately remained unsuccessful. Shame, shame and grief are enormous when on the threshold of 2005 someone must realize that just his country in the claws of people who ignore poverty, poverty, poverty, unemployment and thousands of other tragedies that result from only one cause: the robbery of money, of which the same country would be much less poor, would be much more cheerful and joyful. They ignore everything for their own gain because there is no other conclusion. All the things that Milosevic was accused of for ten years are now doing, not the same thing, but much worse. Milosevic, after all, did not take the money, but a democratic new power, so this robbery, billions of dollars taken from the state and the people, will remain remembered in world annals as Serbia's democratic robbery. I have to add and thank you for your patience and thank you, Mr. President, for letting me use this 20 minutes. I expected Mr. Predrag Markovic to want at least something to hear, but I am sorry, he seems to have solved, along with Mr. Dinkic, not to attend. [[Louds from the bench: He's out.]] Nevertheless, Serbian citizens want a better life. Serbian citizens want to change, but Serbian citizens know it will not go easily and they would be satisfied with the gradual and gradual changes better. But Serbian citizens want justice and justice, Serbian citizens want to fight corruption and crime, we need a travel method of dealing with organised crime and corruption. Serbia needs a new deal with citizens to get out of the severe economic crisis and social misery. The SRS is preparing a programme to get out of the economic crisis and social misery, and one of the key points of the programme will be just to fight corruption and crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13635	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the current on October 5th is the introduction of a democratic form of rule in Serbia. Since then, from 2000 to today, Serbia has embarked on changes, reforms, development and consolidation of democratic institutions. I'm stressing important results. Macro-economic stability, remember inflation and hyperinflation in the previous period. We now have as a solid dinar liquid, for which the then governor of NBJ is certainly responsible, and today's finance minister, Mr Mladjan Dinkic. Today we have membership in international institutions. Today, Serbia has become an integral part of the civilized world. What is important to point out is that the banking sector is one of the most vital today, and it has implemented the most successful reform. Before October 5th, there was no savings in banks. Today, the savings amount to a billion 500m euros. The country's public debt has been reduced from 14.1 billion euros to 9.6 billion euros. NBS foreign exchange reserves increased from $360m to four billion and 300 million. There's no such thing as a black exchange rate today. Remember that payment traffic has been transferred to banks in a very efficient way. Remember that today there are no para-state banks, such as Dafina and Jadas. The banking system is a healthy core of Serbia's entire economic system. Today there are more bank employees than after the bankruptcy of four large banks, as the four banks owed eight billion marks at a given time and needed all of Serbia, all employees in Serbia to work 18 months to pay back the debt. Today, we are in a position to return the old foreign exchange savings and the loan for Serbia's rebirth, which was made in the decade before October 5th. Today, Serbia received a credit rating for the first time. Today, Serbia signed an international contract, a textile agreement, after the 1990s for the first time. What is very important to say is that we have the household management of people's money and savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget. For example, there was a deficit in 2003, there were 43 billion dinars, in 2004, 22 billion, and today in 2005, the deficit almost does not exist. Order is being introduced in Serbia. The law applies equally to everyone. It creates an atmosphere, an ambience, that healthy and real work and profit, and that the state helps the sick, the poor. Corruption is shrinking. Do you know that more than 160,000 fiscal cash registers have been introduced, VAT has been introduced. The agricultural budget is three times bigger. The price of diesel fuel for agricultural producers is 17 dinars cheaper. The same agricultural producers can go to banks and submit documents and projects to banks for short- and long-term agricultural loans. You know very well that a strategy has been made in the area of agriculture. Today in Serbia, after many years, there is an Agency for the Insurance of Residential Credits, you well know that it was not there. Today in Serbia, an initiative is being launched to reduce unemployment, to grant loans to unemployed persons, and you remember well that by 2000, the number of unemployed has increased to an 800,000 figure, plus those of people on forced leave. Today, financial stability exists in Serbia and public sector pensions are paid regularly in Serbia. You know well that the Republic of Serbia's budget takes care of the entire five pensions, as the fund can only pay seven. Today in Serbia, economic growth is 8%, and you know how stagnation was in the previous period. In this building, since this assembly of parliament, about a hundred laws have been passed in Serbia. And it is important that we have a lot of awareness that we have to do a lot more laws to pass, because Serbia is closer to the European Union, closer than ever. Soon we get a positive assessment of the Performance Study, and on that road, we have a big job in the legislative sense, to adapt our regulations, because Europe is waiting for us. We moved from the Foreign Affairs Directorate to the Association Directorate. What is very important to tell people is that ten countries that entered the European Union in the previous cycle, between 2004 and 2006, will receive 40 billion euros in assistance for infrastructure development, agriculture, institutions in their countries. We can't miss a chance. It is time for us to work actively to pass laws and comply with the rules with the European Union. What's very important is that we missed one period, that it can't be easily compensated, but we can't lose a moment of faster and better work to achieve that backlog. So for G-17 plus all these results are very significant, for the state of Serbia even more important. What is very important is that this introduction of order, that this way of working can only take the country to the family of European countries. I call on the assembly majority to vote for changes to the laws that are more technical, but at the same time allow us to speed up the processes towards European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13637	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, answered and gave some explanation to the vice president. ) Just a moment, fellow Members, means the word has a People's MP, but I would like to ask the head of the SPS parliamentary group to arrange these submissions to be delivered to the president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13638	Let me explain about Mr. Wolf's exposure. It's about mentioning some money in Cyprus, that the G-17 coalition partners brought it up. Mr. Vukic, I am convinced that you as an experienced politician understand that this story about Milosevic's money in Cyprus is a lie and that DOS used it in an election campaign. Turns out there's no money in Cyprus. I don't understand politicians. Everybody's chasing and asking for some money. Some politicians look to me like those trackers and jar-diggers with gold they never dig up. If it hadn't been for that lie in the campaign, the question is whether we would have lost the election and if Milosevic would have lost the election at all. The other day on TV, Borka Vukic hosted and explained how it was done during the time of the sanctions and the war. We had to do business with countries in the environment. We also had to import and export. When we had sanctions, somebody tell me that it could have been done differently. Money was delivered through Macedonia, but goods entered the country for the money. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say that they should know that it was a big lie -- Milosevic's money in Cyprus. The lie was staged in 2000, and now it's 2005. I guess the lies came to an end. You, Mr. Vukic, listen to Batic, who has been wandering around Cyprus for three years and looking for Milosevic's money, and is playing in Cyprus. While he was there, he lost his job as justice minister because he didn't work here, became a money seeker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13639	Replica. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I only owe one amendment to what Mr Albianic was talking about. Of course, I don't agree with anything, but this is one different way, it seems he's chosen a smarter way of talking than it was before. But anyway, it's not 40 billion. They have reduced this to 15 billion for the support of the European Union to new members. As for the money in Cyprus, the people, the state, whatever you want, I most agree with you, Mr. Peric. I never said it was Milosevic's money. On the contrary, I said it wasn't Milosevic's money. But that money was there and that money was untraceable -- that's what I said. So, I said the untraceable was gone and I didn't call on Batic, but I was calling on your coalition partner, Mladjan Dinkic. I called on Mladjan Dinkic and he hasn't told me for three years Vladan Batic, but here for five years he's been telling me, five years your coalition partner Mladjan Dinkic tells me that there is so much and so much money in Cyprus, that all we have to do is wait and get that money. Now, I'm surprised at the sudden change in you, so you're making a huge and dramatic difference between Mr Batic and Mr Dinkic. I'm sorry, there's no difference for us. And each other were in DOS. Both have dealt with political opponents in the same way or talked about us all the worst in the previous period. As for Dinkic himself, he is much more evil than Batic. He has the keys to all financing in Serbia. He decides on wealth or poverty for Serbian citizens. It is he who is the most responsible for which and the misery that exists today in Serbia. So I invite you in the correctest way, convinced that you understand that, Mr. Pericic, which is - I agree with you, but I am sure you no longer trust these and such lies that DOS, and as you see before everyone here, Mladjan Dinkic presented it to us, so I am confident that you will vote for his shift and that you will allow us to find it on the agenda next time, because it is not democratic to take it off our agenda. So together to replace it and then expect certainly an unmatched better future and make changes for the citizens of Serbia and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13641	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? (No) I am concluding a principled search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13642	The SRS parliamentary group is asking for an amendment to delete Article 1 of this bill, but first I must tell you that we were just misinformed by the last president of the G-17 Plus parliamentary group. He said it was a law on changes and additions. That's not the name of the law. You did not inhale in time to read, it is a law on regulating the relations of the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy. They've been in bankruptcy for four years. You see, terms don't agree - based on foreign loans or loans taken over. In order for Serbian citizens to understand what this is about, it is that someone has corned that they have made an agreement, that 66.6% of something that does not exist has been written off. It's some interest and some claims that are out of date. But it was a cover to shut down four banks and to add 20 more banks to that shut-down and to those banks, and thus form a market for space to enter these banks, allegedly from abroad. However, these are almost all banks formed by capital from the Republic of Serbia. When the operation was done, no one said, and this is G17 plus, namely Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, that there is any obligation of these banks to bankruptcy towards the state. Now, with a delay of several years, this law appears which practically changes the status of creditors during the bankruptcy process that has been opened over banks. You have this constitutional problem, though both mentally and logically. Now, the trustee, who is waiting for his claim to charge him in a bankruptcy procedure, will be released, for the simple reason that on the basis of this ordinary paper, the character of the claim is changing, or the Republic of Serbia becomes a trustee of banks in bankruptcy, and thus becomes a trustee of that property where the end-users were our businesses. The lack of this bill is that the amount is not known, which is not known what are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, according to which investment fund or group of banks from abroad, which is not known what is the obligations that banks of these banks are in bankruptcy, which is not known who the end-users of the loan were, which companies: RTB Bor, mines, Zastava and these other companies, so that we know what the state is getting. In this way, the state says -- we're practically stopping the bankruptcy procedure in these companies now, because the state has become the owner of everything that was the demand for these banks to the economy. Basically, here we have a combination of three original lies, so you don't see the truth that the banks are shut down, to hide the data on how much money there is abroad. The author of that book, "Democratic Robbery of Serbia", rightly asks the question: "Where are the money? "Here you had a chance to hear the quotes. Elliot Ness, called Mladjan Dinkic, went to seduce the order, so Cyprus failed to seduce the order, but managed to take 20m long cases of materials, to remove the 1054 warrant, in order to avoid data on the claims and placements of the Belgrade bank, which is beyond the offshore company, which, in other words, stands abroad. Then they're being generous here, like, they wrote off something that doesn't exist, some kind of demand for some clubs out there that funded them to come to power. Where there are four billion, it rightly asks the question and the author of this book, with the right to ask, and all of them, it is also asked by Velimir Ilic. His statement reads, "I don't know, by the authority and power of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I've been investigating. It was 1,600,000, which could have been withdrawn by one signature, and it wasn't done. "That money comes back to us through the Euroaxis Bank, the Small collective, of those exotic islands of yours. You don't need to be experts for that. You're boasting that you're experts. What you're doing is a crime. That's why you care about these claims by the state of banks in bankruptcy. As you say here, and I'm not going to read you article 1, he's inapplicable, and he says, "On that basis, the Republic of Serbia has acquired a claim," and there's no basis anywhere, you didn't specify which is the basis. That's how your exposure, which is called the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation, becomes the nominal owner, not the state. You see, in that Action Fund Act, you applied one solution, so there you said the claims are being written off, and here you didn't write off the claim, but you kept it. This is a legalized robbery, a legalized crime directed by G17 plus, which needs to be saved from criminal responsibility. Remember, Mladjan Dinkic was looking for some money in Cyprus, and he found his cousin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13643	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13644	Mr. Chairman, if during my speech, as happened during Mr. Krasic's speech, I will hear that one of the most likely questioned MPs in this assembly whistled in any way, I will personally approach and rip out at least one ear. As for this law and everything that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic spoke about today in a multi-hour discussion, I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and you are all witnesses of this, first of all, of the DSS gentlemen, who today suffer in every way possible, in a political sense, in financial and any other, slapping by Mladjan Dinkic, who is the finance minister, who then wanted the public, as some sort of withdrawal for opposition action, to show that they are also solidarity with thousands of those of the four Serbian banks that Mladjan Dinkic once decided to close. Today, it is not a question for members of the G17 Plus Group, whose Dinkic is an "expert" and minister -- why they defend him, why they are trying to justify each of his actions, but for Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica himself, whom we warned from this speaker on the day of the election of Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister, not to do so. It would be acceptable for Serbian citizens to say -- here, the Assembly has brought one out of the hundred fifty and I don't know how many laws in the new assembly, and that this law allows those several thousand people from the banks, which Dinkic fired, to return to work. We have a completely reverse situation today. We have a situation where they no longer know the number, or in Kragujevac, where 40,000 people are unemployed, there is no idea how many foreign banks are allegedly operating as domestic ones, and the interest rates of interest from the people they buy from and through particularly consumer loans, to which citizens are forced to go because of poverty and poverty, through the huge interest taken by the citizens of Serbia, by the business of these banks, are being robbed anyway by the completely empty pockets of Serbian citizens. Then what are we talking about here? What generosity is now the minister of finance and the state of Serbia, so he will write off debts and four banks that should have gone into bankruptcy, but in the process of recovery, in their recovery, so that they can work and place themselves in a domestic economy, which today does not work at all. On the contrary, you are talking about a feasibility study and the process of stabilising and joining the European Union. I must remind you, especially you, ladies and gentlemen, from this completely destructive majority today in the Serbian Parliament, that in that report by the European Commission, whose opinion you are concerned about, mentions the case of four Serbian banks, and something that they will not allow you and will not accept, although Mr Albianic has tried to present to us how Europe is ahead, so that he has not accepted as such a copy and everyone else goes there. They won't see you, because they strictly sanction something where Mladjan Dinkic is an expert, which is money laundering, money laundering through Cyprus, money laundering through banks that are personally controlled by Mladjan Dinkic, with his godmother-mafian brotherhood, money laundering by Serbian citizens, and the robbery he is now working through banks, foreign banks that he controls in our country. It would be good for any of you to tell us and explain to one of the Serbian citizens that it is possible to lie to people from this assembly payphone when you tell them that these banks are generous, to give excellent and favourable loans, when you know that this is not true, when you know that additional people are being robbed and when you know and you are aware that you are defending the man who represents the greatest evil today. He controls not only cash flows, but all of you, disciplines you in the way he talks to you, and through his address at a press conference in the Serbian government, through his media performances. Then we're being framed by some story and some great expert moves both G17 and Mladjan Dinkic, which will get the state out of the crisis. First of all, I would like to inform you, gentlemen, who are from the party of current Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's party, to call on you, if that is still possible, and to make sure that, if possible, if you wish well to this country and this people, you get rid of someone like the group G17 and the money of all Mladjan Dinkic. Because I believe that even many people sitting in the G17 parliamentary group do not justify these moves of naked crime and the man who today is the most perfiduous personified crime in this country, which is unfortunately the finance minister in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13645	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13646	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this story about domestic banks began at the end of 2001 in early 2002. It was actually developing in two directions. The first money laundering, i.e. removing money that could not, due to the external wall of sanctions, is due to NATO aggression, due to the UN's economic sanctions, to be in legal progress. Most of that business was done by Beobank. With DOS coming to power and violent takeover of the National Bank, someone has come to mind, and someone named Mladjan Dinkic, that money is being poured into private pockets, their own and their business partners. This whole story, the first part of the story about our banks that are in bankruptcy, liquidation, was just about it. The second part of the story is in fact a continuation of the robbery of state or social banks, call them whatever you want, and the robbery took place the next way. There are thousands of square meters of business space left in the most exclusive parts of the cities. Wherever these banks had their own exposures and branches, they were in the center of town. The business space cost over a thousand and a half, two, three, and possibly thousands of euros in Belgrade. The business space is being taken over by new banks, which are close to the governor at the time, and the current finance minister. To make evil bigger and have the things that are going on and on their hands is the decision of EU countries to move from national currencies to one single currency, to the euro. It matches about the time domestic banks were shut down, state banks, with the transition of national currencies to the euro, so some banks, which suddenly appeared on our market, accumulated capital of over eight billion marks. The initial estimates of Mladjan Dinkic, and of everyone else in the game, were that four billion, now it turns out to be eight billion. That money can no longer be controlled by the National Bank, can no longer control the state, the good part is already out or what little remains is used as a cover for interest. The money from the sighting, the foreign currency by sight or by hand at the banks has interest 1.5 to 2%, and you can check it out, and it's just these banks that Alexander Vukic listed. And the placement money to our citizens is not on European interest, ranging from five to 5.5% on an annual basis, but at least 16 to 18%. And these same banks, so they don't have a little bit of it, that same dinar credit they give to the foreign exchange cover is tied to the euro, so they charge him plus a jump in the euro that, you have to admit, exists, so they also tie prices to a little bit, for various interest, banking, tightness, etc. So with the same money, which has been unfairly acquired, the citizens of Serbia are being robbed. And the question is, would that be possible at all if it weren't for one of those hellish machines that was able to come up with one such scam, depicted in a coded party like G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13647	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and then you will be colleagues of Vjerica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13648	Dear People's MPs, I expected this debate and the finance minister to look at it here in this distance from the pay phone, but it escaped, because I am one of the 9,000 workers who made Dinkic and Labus happy in January 2002. This so-called reform or the start of a reform of the banking system, with the destruction of the four largest banks in Serbia, with tradition and a huge reputation, both in the country and abroad, designed to open space to banks that have started opening up, from the bankruptcy of these banks to today. But I had specific questions for the minister to ask. At the time, he was a member of the Management Board of the Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy, and Labus, the current vice-president of the Republic of Government, was chairman of the Management Board. These questions are: how did they carry out the alleged recovery procedure of these four banks from June to the end of 2001; who decided overnight to liquidate these four banks? Since I worked in Jugobanci Kraljevo, I was involved in the entire process of the alleged recovery of these four large banks and this fraud that they first made to the workers of these banks with an alleged programme on the recovery of these banks, to a secret agreement or implementation of programmes that they had received to carry out in the negotiations in Paris. These negotiations in Paris on the alleged write-off of 66% of Serbia's banks' debts are essentially fraud and fraud, as well as a major robbery of Serbian and Serbian citizens. I wanted to ask the minister a concrete question: why are dollar loans, that was most of the loans in these negotiations, converted into euro loans? The fact itself cost 300m euros at that point. Did Mr. Labus and Dinkic have that benefit, only by turning dollar loans into euro? What happened after that, since the bankruptcy proceedings were opened for these four banks. Normally, Kljajevic, as president of the Trade Court, then the Court of Commerce, now the Commercial Court of Belgrade, with bankruptcy judges, has done nothing to date regarding the bankruptcy and liquidation of these banks. Unfortunately, workers from these banks couldn't get – despite the huge assets in terms of money and movable things, without talking about huge immovableities, therefore, with enormous value in the most elite parts of Serbia's cities – no December salaries from 2001, and workers who allegedly went under the recovery programme didn't get paid until today's severance. I would also ask Minister Dinkic, who is not here, what about the money that has been blocked since the start of sanctions at the South Bank Agency in New York, is 120m dollars; what about the money from Veksim Bank in Moscow, which was the legal predecessor of this famous Bank of Lazarevic and Hamovic, whose business was both Dinkic and Labus, where there was at least 20 million dollars when the bank was founded by South Bank of Belgrade; what about 20 million dollars, when it was set up as a Yugoslav-English bank in London, was not founded because of sanctions, but the funds went somewhere. Who took all this money? What about this law now, when it is proposed to take over debts, allegedly these banks in bankruptcy and liquidation, by the state, will credits granted or taken abroad for Trepca, Feronikl in Kosovo and other businesses Serbia will pay the debts? The finance minister said about one billion loans refer to Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are privatising, i.e. alienation of state property. The government, the government and the minister are doing nothing to protect the state property, at least because of these commitments they have made on behalf of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13649	Time, Mr. Four.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13650	I'm sorry, I don't answer very often, but I'm going to end up with one wise saying by Vladimir Bulatovic Vib: "The new rich have heard a little five. They have a sense of reception, a sense of their own estate, a sense of consumption, a sense of grab and a sense of decay." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13651	Thank you for this quote. The word has been issued by the People's MP, Verica Radet, on this amendment, on Mr Krasic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13652	Mladjan Dinkic seems impatient, so he has already run to Europe, since he is not here all day today, but he does not know the coward will return him from there. All the places where it was possible to place criminals, filled, for Mladjan Dinkic there was nothing left, there were still empty places in our prisons. Minister Stojkovic follows our work in this part and the man came immediately to take him, and this one escaped, it really doesn't make sense. Dear colleagues from what you call the parliamentary majority, if you still are, it would be better if you had accepted an SRS initiative, or if we had discussed the resolution of Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, if you had voted with us together for the proposal, then it would have been much better and easier for you as a parliamentary majority and authorities. Serbia would certainly be much better because, first of all, we would not have this law on the agenda today. Perhaps after Dinkic, you would not be able to find another such criminal who would force you to wash your conscience and your crimes through the laws that he proposes to this parliament and which you will certainly, if you manage to conclude most of them, and accept. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, has asked you to delete Article 1. The bill's proposal and he said, I can also say, it's pointless to read this Article of Law, because it really means nothing, but from the reasons set out in the amendment you should be clear why this article should be deleted. In fact, the SRS opposes the different treatment of the Republic of Serbia regarding its claims in a bankruptcy proceedings against banks compared to other bank creditors in bankruptcy. I guess the rules of bankruptcy against banks were known to those who negotiated with the Paris and London Club credentials. Therefore, the amendment requires that Article 1 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Who were the negotiators of the Paris and London Club? Labus, remember when he sang those Partisan songs, so they recorded it on TV and, of course, Mladjan Dinkic, famous for the DOS revolution in that famous stocking, heclers, by the intrusion, I mean the National Bank, by self-proclaiming governor of the National Bank. And since then, everything has gone wrong when it comes to the financing of the Republic of Serbia. All the funds are under the hands of Mladjan Dinkic. He destroyed four major Serbian banks. Regardless of what counterpart Cetrovic had just stepped over the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure for the amendment, it was not nice of the president to let him finish what he had to say, and he could really say a lot, because he was one of those left by Mladjan Dinkic without a job, when he was destroying Serbian banks, to bring, without any control, any foreign bank in Serbia. Most of these banks are Zzn-class banks in their countries, and they are here to pick up all those foreign exchanges that existed with Serbian citizens, to take them to their headquarters, and then here are representatives of the assembly majority and the party of Mladjan Dinkic that now has opportunities, now saves in Serbia, raising housing loans, so I don't know honey and milk. If the citizens of Serbia didn't know what kind of situation they were living in, they might still believe you. You can tell that to someone who doesn't live in Serbia. Ask the citizens of Serbia who took up the housing loan, under which conditions housing loans are granted, who in Serbia is able to pay for the housing loan, or the war on housing credit. These consumer loans, extremely unfavourable, which the people will take, because they have nothing to eat, and then they take that loan, and then they're in trouble. And we will come to a much more difficult situation, much more so the citizens of Serbia will have nothing to eat, especially as you threaten to continue to quit, as Mladjan Dinkic threatens the Labour Act by firing another 300,000 employees from public enterprises. He started with a resolution minister at JAT, and the question is, how far will he get? We suggested we stop him. It's not too late. Make Predrag Markovic, gentlemen of the assembly majority, respect the Rules of Procedure, put the initiative on the agenda and free Serbia from a ballast called Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13653	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, then by Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our people said well - what is born wrong, life doesn't correct. Mladjan Dinkic entered power with an automatic rifle, not an election, not a quality, not a competition. He went into the National Bank with a rifle. You pretended not to see it, that it didn't bother you. You called him governor for a month and a half before he really became governor, and on the same day you gave him everything the National Bank has. He shut down state banks, you pretended it wasn't a problem. The companies were gone, you pretended it didn't matter at all. He favored the exposition of foreign banks, you pretended to be an extraordinary move for Serbian banking. Gasio's financial sector, closing insurance companies, closing banks, says it will reduce the number of banks in Serbia because we have many banks. Find me in the world, democratic and orderly, the finance minister or governor who will say in one state -- I'll close more banks, we've got a lot of banks. To send him to Switzerland to say something like that and say, we have a lot of banks on this street, every house is a bank, we have to close it, it's too, there's no market for foreign banks. When you determined the heights of the wages to the MPs, the one who was used to walking, yelling, being impertinent and rude, did the last insolentness and insolence, to those who chose him as minister, who, by law, appointed the wages of the MPs, dared to say that you would reduce the wages or receive them for 40 days. You don't tell him - Ministers, either cut your salary or you'll receive it for 40 days. That's what he did to you the day after you stopped us from having a debate on Mladjan Dinkic in the agenda. You know what, and I, who am tolerated, democratically-oriented, well-trained, seem to give in to me and start acting like Mladjan Dinkic, if you would really let me do everything I've been meaning to do in one country. You can't stop him either. Every one of you who does not raise his hand to be removed, each one of you who raises his hand to pass this law, will find some justification for himself in some society. You, gentlemen of the DSS, I give you a piece of advice, it would be worth it to you if you wanted to listen to it. Let the country be ruled by politicians. Don't let the country be ruled by tycoons, rich men and their servants, because the tycoons didn't go through a filter of democratic multilateral and free elections. They didn't fight anyone, they were out of competition. Give me the names of the ten richest people in Serbia, I'll prove to you that none of them had competition when they got rich, that their only competition was a state, and the state was falling to rich people and to their protectors. You will say - yes, it is wrong, Mladjan Dinkic, destroys everything, but it is our coalition partner, we need those votes to preserve the government. Of course, you won't say it in a duel, because someone might ask you - why you need such a government. You can't, as a majority partner, as a partner who introduced the SPS, who doesn't have as many MPs as you are on number as you can always count on the SPS MPs, because of you, they've entered all of this, you can't say that a small coalition partner can do whatever they want, because I think you, unlike them, want to do politics after the next election, and those who don't think never again can do politics. Neither can you from smaller political parties justify yourself if you defend Mladjan Dinkic, because we have evidence of what you think of him and what you have said about him. Serbia must become a normal country. Look, instead of stopping Mladjan Dinkic, you find ways to justify him. (President: Time. I'm done. When our children at school are threatened, on the street threatened, you don't say we provide them with peace, security and security, but you say we lock them in the house. It's insecure for the Prince of Michael's street for children, an insecure schoolyard for children, to sit at home, for what we need children on the street. It's like prohibition in American times. No alcohol. What difference does it make if the street is quiet after 12 or before 12? Are you the government? Is everyone on the street safe from zero to 24 hours? What gives you the right to introduce a curfew so you can say that our kids aren't safe after 12? What kind of state are you? Secure after 12 security on the street. They're destroying our banks and businesses. What excuse do you have today in front of that insidious fact, in front of the fact that a man, impertinent, rude, rude...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13655	Please, don't disturb the speaker, and, Mr. Nikolic, I ask you to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13656	Today, a fugitive member of the government, Mladjan Dinkic, is being talked about. Look out, that's the man who ran down the only book he wrote. Isn't that enough for you? What else does Mladjan Dinkic have to do to say - sorry, you're not for our party, we want a party the people won't hate. You've led them to set up a traffic light on Brank's bridge, so the cars will go first, so the jumpers go back to the cars, so those jumpers, hungry, thirsty, don't have any more sense of living with you in power. Laugh and get fat, but this won't take long. Ivo Andric may have written one song, but he said everything about you. He says it's been a hot summer, and it's grown a lot of fruit. It can no longer be all for you, for your servants, for your children, for your children's servants. You must bring the people back, not the World Bank, not the IMF, not the European Union, the people. Because if you think that only a few of you, how many of you are in that party, enter the European Union, and the people remain at the door, what will you do to us?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13657	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admire the courage of the MPs of the SRS, I don't have that courage. I don't have the guts to call Dinkic a thief, I've never called him and I admire when they say so. That's why I decided, if he were here today, I would address - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Dinkic, but he's gone, so he made my job easier. I'll never mention again when he and his socks and his Kalashnikov broke into the People's Bank like a thief, because thieves come in at night, he fell by day. I'm never going to mention that bunch of pictures that were in the National Bank when he was governor, so there's no governor, no art pictures, because one of the National Bank asked where the pictures were, so the rest of the People's Bank asked where he was. I don't want to mention that $30 million foreign exchange deposit that he gave to his best friends, Hamovic and Lazarevic, at the Euroaxis Bank, when he was governor. And I don't want to tie him to Hamovic and Lazarevic because they're criminals, and if I tie him up, I have to say he's a criminal, and I won't. I don't want to mention what he inherited when he broke up with Jugobanka, Jelasic, I don't know what his name was before he got his citizenship, and I know he was in that commission to sell Southobanka's assets, so Mercedes, which was a total of two years old, took 13,000 euros. If I say so, then I have to connect him to Dinkic and I have to mention Dinkic is a thief, and I won't. I don't want to talk about four banks that he shut down, leaving several thousand people out of work and a few tens of thousands of businesses around Serbia without property, leaving Serbia without a fat asset and what's left of it, after hitting a lock in those four banks, inn as if it were his father's. I don't want to mention that he found several billion dollars in Cyprus, because there's no more money in Cyprus. I heard they went to the Virgin Islands, mentioned Janjusevic there, that he was his relationship, but I won't say, I'm afraid Dinkic doesn't get mad at me. I don't want to talk about how much he robbed the state when he took the exchange mark for the euro for Serbian citizens, and then changed course and how much he took on that difference from the money. I won't because I can't say. Even when he's arrested, I won't be allowed to say he's a thief for at least ten days until he's discovered. Today I expected Minister Stojkovic to sit next to Minister Jocic, and if Dinkic were sitting on this side in the boukagi, then we could talk a lot. This is not how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13659	We heard an opinion on the amendment. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Mircic, on behalf of Mr Krasic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may be a little unusual to discuss an amendment to a law proposed by the Government, whose representative is the minister, and the minister has not been here since the start of the debate. In the end, it has obviously become a habit of the coalition government, when talking about the minister, when discussing his proposals, the government's proposals, the minister either escapes or doesn't come. It comes down to the same thing. I see no reason why, when it comes to such a significant amendment to the fate not only of the monetary sector, but of the full and economic sector, because we saw what Dinkic was doing when he was governor, and later, or now the finance minister, why not listen to what the SRS is saying. If he's so honest and fair, as you presented him when you proposed him to be Minister of Finance, what there would be to be ashamed of such an honest and honest man. Why doesn't he listen and come out and say it from this pay phone? It is obviously a new style and way of working for individual ministers in this government, when they are criticised in parliament, where it is place and where it is logical, then they respond to the MPs, or explain to the people over TV screens, lease or usurp the time on television, and then go out and harass the citizens, and they are aware that no one is able to answer them. Even if we have in mind that recently a special show of state television is emerging, where ministers and vice presidents of the government go out and talk about their success, then we won't be surprised if this minister, instead of answering here, shows up on one of the TVs tonight and starts talking about the financial, monetary, economic system. But it can be expected to speak as if we were living in another country, not in the state of Serbia. The fact is that there are merits of the finance minister and as governor of the National Bank, especially at the post of minister. As governor of the National Bank, he personally pledged to liquidate domestic banks and that, as one of the consequences recently, the fact that through the liquidation of these domestic banks was made possible by tycoons of individual political parties to become owners of large companies, profitable enterprises, mines, to prepare to take over both NIS and EPS overnight. It was made possible for them the moment they broke into the National Bank with the Kalashnikovs, then it was already designed and designed to liquidate domestic banks. The fact that domestic banks were loyal to these large systems is now just a matter of expression. And without Vlassi's knowledge, a new bank governor has been brought in. For the old governor, even here are some MPs who have been in the coalition with him from this pay phone not long ago said he was the biggest thief in the history of Serbian banking. Now they're earnestly trying to keep him quiet, and it's as if that crime was done by someone else. We warn, as always in time, the Serbian public that there is a disaster ahead for the Serbian economy, Serbian finance, Serbian banking. The disaster is primarily based on the fact that Mladjan Dinkic is still the finance minister. Of course, it's always, as an ordinary citizen would say, Dinkic and Labus, like coffee and sour, don't separate from each other, so do they. The point is, sometimes they find some minor tycoon or not to say a delinquent who will be chairman of a bank recovery committee or some other function, so they'll blame him when they see the public pressure is high, especially when the intra-party tensions are high. Then they always find someone to blame, like that poor guy who, not by his mistake, when he was 25, became the owner of half the property in Belgrade, who was laundering money, and finally said that his... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. ... A colleague from the government for the services he provided him. I suppose it's pro-European services. Here is the opportunity, when a colleague and he are not in government, to provide these services on the streets of Belgrade, and it is an opportunity for Minister Dinkic to resign now, so that his services also offer his knowledge to citizens not only of Belgrade, but of all cities in Serbia, because they too will fail. The longer Dinkic remains in power, the greater the tragedy and the greater the ruin for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13661	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, please. Yes, yes, for this amendment, so of course, here you go, it has to be explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13662	Of course, according to the amendment, but you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, since I come from a parliamentary group that has always advocated work and construction, to express my regret that today, indeed, throughout the day, we have hardly been able to talk about the law and amendments. My MP group is having a hard time understanding the obsession with personalities, and we really don't think we should talk about personalities in this assembly to this extent. But speaking of the amendment, and this law that is on the agenda today, I want to say that it is really necessary for Serbia to continue through economic reforms and stabilise its economic and financial situation. Of course, we do, maybe a little less talk, but that's why our results are visible. Instead of constantly repeating how the citizens need to get their money back, we pay the citizens back the money. Let me remind you that 350m euros in old foreign exchange savings have been paid to citizens and that after 15 years, loans for Serbia's rebirth began. That's what debt to citizens is all about. But why is there so much talk here about Minister of Finance and Mr. Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister? Because we all know that they are responsible for the economic part of government policy. What does he mean? First of all - the preservation of macroeconomic stability, the conduct of a solid fiscal policy and the creation of conditions for new investments and changes in the structure of production. I'll remind you, too, that last year we achieved a record low budget deficit. Savings have been made, and this best says that in 2003 the deficit was 42.9 billion dinars, i.e. 47.9% higher than the minus in 2004. Budget revenues, on the contrary, have been increased. In 2004, revenue of 333 million 567 thousand dinars increased 27.3% compared to 2003. At the same time, expenditures for 2004 were reduced compared to 2003. The largest subsidies are given to agriculture. Pension payments, all social benefits, public sector wages, old foreign exchange savings and loans for economic rebirth, as I have already said, go on a regular basis. The average pension in last year was 9,294 dinars, which was actually increased by 5.7%. A reform of the state administration is being carried out. The restructuring of public enterprises has begun. The finance ministry managed to confirm all arrangements with international financial institutions, such as the IMF and the World Bank, already in its first year of work. By renewing these dialogues, 105.7m euros were received from the World Bank, as well as 9m euros in grants from the European Union. After successfully completing the fifth review of the arrangement with the IMF and a positive assessment of the board of directors of the institution, Serbia will receive an additional write-off of about 15%, 700m in debt to the Paris Club of Trustees, a write-off of about 62% according to the London Club's creditors, as well as a reprogramme of remaining liabilities of $1 billion per 20-year term. Also, for the first time in its history, Serbia has received a credit rating, which is B plus for now. Of course, we're not happy with him. We move on, but this is the first time Serbia has received a credit rating, returning to Europe's investment map. Soon Serbia will have the honour of hosting over 2000 participants from the General Assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This will be an opportunity for our businessmen to show potential and capacity to close new jobs. In just a year, we in the Serbian Parliament adopted a set of over 400 economic laws, proposed by the Ministry of Finance. The change in the company's profit tax law reduced the tax rate from 14% to 10%, which is the lowest rate compared to other countries. Changes in the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, whether or not I should remind you, have made a significant fiscal discharge of the debtors and introduced a single minimum base of contribution of 40% of the average earnings paid in the Republic. Certain incentives have been provided for the employment of persons over 45 years of age, as well as those who lost their jobs in the transition process. The fiscal registers have been successfully introduced. The end and process of fiscalisation have been brought to an end, and the already 170,000 fiscal cash registers are functioning in Serbia. Start of applying the new law on gambling... (Chairman (Vojislav Mihailovic): Please, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... He made it possible, I'll finish right away, that the budget finally benefits from these actions. For example, in just two months this year, the state lottery has paid 243 million dinars, only since the lottery was organised, the national cash register has an inflow of 730 million dinars, while in the entire last year this revenue was 800 million. Also, the housing insurance agency started working. Six banks signed a contract with this agency... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) )......................................................................................................... (I'll bring the end right away) which has secured 70% of the risk to banks, so it's possible that with interest from 7.45% to 8.95% of citizens get long-term housing loans. The VAT was successfully introduced. Incomes in the VAT-based budget by mid-February were around 7.3 billion dinars, and already, while there were certain doubts that the state would retain money, also made the first large returns worth 400 million dinars. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to Europe. One of the reasons is that economic reforms are successfully implemented, and this is a positive assessment that we have received from all, and therefore we will get a positive assessment of the feasibility study very soon. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13663	The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13664	Someone forgot a pen from you. Yeah, I get it. Let me just talk to the Rules of Procedure. [[growls]] I understand that some speak out of nothing, some speak based on notes, but here we are talking about a member of 100th and a violation of Parliament's dignity. All MPs of all parliamentary groups here represent the citizens. Citizens chose them to represent their party's interests and chose them to do their job, which is to pass laws because the laws are a prerequisite for serious changes in society. We attended the previous years what happens when changes are done without laws. That is why the obligation of all of us here is to do everything we can to preserve the dignity of the congregation. That means we stick to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, with all the right political obstruction, it is a great pleasure for me to have skilled speakers, such as Mr. Paroski, who spoke several hours in this assembly, a few years ago, or as one MP today. But, please, let's be nice, it applies to all of us, the congregation is not therapy. If they don't let anyone at home speak, of course he has to, please let me finish my presentation, the most normal thing is that he has the right to look for a place to talk. However, none of us, indeed, have the right to interfere with something that allows Serbia's citizens to live better as soon as possible, which is to clear up with all that was not good in the previous period. Because either there were no laws, or there was no democratic procedure, or any other way was at risk of the citizens' interest and the possibility of the economy being involved in Europe, that people would receive what was earned, that they would get what they had saved. Of course, there have been representatives of all parties in previous years, very high-quality people, and they have submitted reports. Parts of those reports are known to all of us. Of course, we don't have to agree with all that, and then we can criticise it. We have no reason to invent what we don't know. (Chairman: You've exceeded time, you're ending it. So no Mr. Dinkic negotiated about any Paris club, as you know. Mr. Labus and Mr. Djelic were negotiating with the SRJ negotiating team. The results of this are well known to all of us. Fortunately, we who have no money, and many of you who have money, are less obliged after that contract. As far as I know, about a thousand and a half dollars. That applies to every resident in this country. It is our obligation that in the next period, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, by respecting the law, by respecting the facts, we do everything (loud voices: time)... It's always time. I've been talking for 3,56 minutes, and I'm right, as you know, five minutes. But please, there's no reason for me to take time, because today's work time is up. (President: Please, you have three minutes.) And I hope that we will do everything possible to be effective in the coming days, to pass laws, rather than invent something that has already been shown a hundred times as a lie. I remind you once again, we don't need someone else's pen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-24-0.u13665	Since it's been 1800 hours, we're finishing today's work. Continuing Tuesday, March 29th, at 10.00 p.m.
