ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13953	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I invite you to pay our respects to the late MP Milutin Pesic at the beginning of the silence. (All present rise.) Eternal meaning to him! (The People's Messengers responds: eternal meaning to him. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 169 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Goran Jaksic, Goran Ilic, Milos Aligrudić, Gašo Knezevic, Dragor Hiber, Dragan Sutanovac and Velimir Stanojevic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SEMEN LAW (resumption in particular) I remind you that at the end of yesterday's session, the National Assembly has launched a review of the amendment to Article 3. The bill also said that MP Vitomir Plužarevic, the applicant for the amendment, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here tomorrow will be the week we've been fighting this seed bill. None of the relevant ones, and here I mean the Minister of Agriculture, has been granted no dignity today to come and listen or to make any comments about the law that matters to him. The economic enslavement of our agriculture through this law is the process of "the worse, the better". For who better? Well, for seed producers that have introduced us into addiction; this addiction is in domestic seed production, agrochemic complex, agromechanization, agro-industry, and at the overall scientific and professional level. We don't need these actions anymore, we need this law now, and that's how we solve everything. By way of derogation from this law, the Minister of Agriculture has shown our citizens, peasants and all the people who are related to agriculture to all the evil devastation coming out of it. The minister's seed has slipped, and now it needs to be transformed into a plant, but the plant will depend on several factors, as the minister has divided the entire farm into two parts. One piece of agriculture binds to, known to it, one Serbia and another part of agriculture binds, to it known, another Serbia. This is what our agricultural producers saw and they now don't want such a minister proposing new laws and running agriculture, and it's probably not going to be much longer. Article 3 of this law has 28 points and each point or number regulates the details of seed processing. To our amendment, we want the words "and includes" to be added behind the words "market". We think that by accepting such an amendment, it would have some kind of stopping course, that this law would not be exactly the way it was proposed, or how mentors who want this seed production to bring it down to the lowest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13955	Anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13956	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, according to this article, the entry into the Register of Seed Producers, the breakdown, mycelium of edible and medicinal mushrooms (hereinafter referred to as ‘Register’) is carried out on the basis of a request submitted by the manufacturer to the Ministry. Articles 6, 7 and 8 have detailed the requirements for entry in the seed producer's register, but this regulation should be defined in the new text: Article 6(2), point 3) after the word "data o" is added the words "area of land and land use based on". After point 5, point 6 is added, which reads as follows: "Data on equipment, machinery and rooms, according to the type of seed production for which the application is submitted. Article 4 is amended as follows: "The Ministry shall adopt a decision concerning the entry in the Register if the manufacturer fulfils the prescribed conditions laid down in Article 2. "In order for a person to deal with seed production should have land, a professional person who will lead the production, both equipment and machinery, as well as the necessary storage space, according to the type of seed production, which is complemented by point 3) and a new point 6) explains. The addition of Article 4 stresses that the minister, before adopting a solution, checks the fulfillment of the conditions for seed production, and only if the manufacturer meets the conditions, makes a solution and enters the Register, since we are struggling to improve these amendments to this law, which we consider not good, and the Ministry proposes it and allegedly combats it in an airy way. But he'll probably never have a legal fact. For example, in early March, Delta Holding tried to import about 25 tonnes of seed corn from America through the Horgos border crossing. The border phytosanitary inspector issued a solution to ban the import of this consignment due to failure, and we have indicated to our amendments and to our overall principled stories that this will happen. Immediately followed by Ivana Dulic's intervention and an urgent arrival at the border of another of her colleagues and pets from G-17, Miroslav Vujovic, director of the Plant Protection Authority. Vujovic orders the inspector to release an invalid shipment into the country and personally secures its passage. That is how they do, for whom they are known, and for which they are known, and for whom the people will not endure for long their boastful conduct that harms all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13957	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13958	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, only by adopting the amendments they have submitted, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, will Parliamentarian Vitomir Plužarevic be circled by Article 6 and will prevent anyone who does not even have a potty of the country, who does not even have that little garden motif to be entered in the Seed Producers' Register, from producing seeds, which are not included in the Register, buying seeds, installing their own price and thus selling seed on the market. So this is the definition of Article 6. The bill allows someone who will be a producer of seeds on the terraces, and without a kilo of land, to torture and sweat those who make these seeds fat. On the other hand, the amendment to the bill makes it impossible for MP Vitomir Plužarevic, at the end of his defence of the amendment, to import genetically modified seeds, seeds of suspicious quality, that the privateer, having been registered in the Register and having the right to declare, has the right to attach that declaration to something that neither he himself knows the quality nor whether it has been modified, and then to sell it as a healthy seed. After all, how did the genetically modified soybeans in Serbia come in the first place? It came just by someone importing those seeds and selling it to the producers. Finally, on Thursday, an MP from the ruling coalition called for a position, opinion, on a statement by Dr Miroslav Malesevic and said that soybeans of genetically modified soybean are not dangerous, if, as a component, three or four percent are embezzled in cattle, Professor Miroslav Malesevic said that in the first knee, we may not mind eating meat from animals fed by genetically modified soybeans, but in the next generations, there is a modification, or genetic disturbance. What is being eaten in Serbia today, and represents a genetically modified product, it will only be the third or fourth generation. Therefore, it should be prohibited, above all, that genetically modified seed should be imported, and secondly, that genetically modified organisms should be installed as components in livestock and thus preserve what is left of us, after this flood on 5 October 2000, when you sold out all living, and all Serbian interests destroyed, that at least that – agriculture and that healthy food, we preserve. Thanks to this particular seed in the bathing area several thousand parcels won't be able to be used for the next few years, and because of the seeds of ′′virginia′′ which ′′Philip Moris′′ introduced, and also because of the virosis, the disease it has brought in with that seed, so that these parcels will remain icy for several years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13959	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13960	Thank you. As we heard from the presentation of Mr Vitomir Plužarevic, what is happening to this example that happened at the border, with the import of 25 tonnes of seed corn, I would refer to what was said yesterday by MPs of the ruling coalition, where Mr. Vlaovic said that there is no talking about agriculture and that it is not meaningful. I think this is all very meaningful, but I can't hear them, that they defend it and deny what we're saying. It has even been said by another MP here that it is not given to every member who criticises a solution that is meaningful. In the past, the amendments have been very meaningful, and one of the meaningful ones is this one, but also those formerly, where we have sought, to prevent such a situation, that the seeds produced for a foreign client should have a certificate that it is not genetically modified. Of course, it's mandatory to give it to our institutes. As we can see, foreign institutes are placing it genetically modified, so I don't know why we should trust them. There is also one specific item, or is proposed that everything will be taken by that foreigner who has ordered it. As we can see from this example given, with the import of seed corn, it's not enough; because if you're willing to break the law and order such a thing to enter the country, how you can only be prepared to steal something and put it in our production. If the intention is true, as you say, then these amendments could be adopted, and since no one says we're wrong, we all know what your intentions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13961	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13962	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of this 6th law refers to the entry into the Register of Seed Producers, Dispersion, mycelium of edible and medicinal mushrooms. So it's not about imports, it's not about genetically modified organisms, it's about the registration process in the seed producer's register. Of course, according to the current law, there is a register of seed producers and producers must meet the conditions in order to be seed producers: of course, to have certain land, to have mechanisms and, most importantly, to have expert staff to be able to deal with this production. This is the case with Article 6 of this Law, and there are no conflicting opinions in these discussions so far, because they are not even encouraged. The story of genetically modified soybeans is repeated again, however, I must say again that the issue of imports of genetically modified soybeans has only been regulated by law since 2001. So, in the pre-2001 period, we know who regulated that matter, and genetically modified soybean and slightly genetically modified corn entered the country. It is known who then led those institutions that approved it or did not approve it. So it came into this country. Since 2001, by adopting this law, of course, it has been regulated by law and at the border each consignment is being examined whether or not it has been genetically modified. In this country there are many hectares of corn, soy, and soybeans, by the way, are 100% of our domestic genetically unmodified variety, because we have no need for that, we do not sow import varieties. All that is found in the possible production is the subject of smuggling and the subject of some criminal activities of certain groups. Of course, criminal activities refer to smugglers, but since 2001, this entry has been disabled. Of course, this country needs soy juice from imports, precisely because it is necessary for our livestock production, however, to import soy buckshots will only be necessary until we do, by agrarian policy measures, that we have enough soy juice for our livestock farming. As long as that's not the case, of course, they'll have to shop abroad. There is no supply on the foreign market of soybean soybeans of genetically unmodified soybeans, but only these, unfortunately. Therefore, the solution is to raise the production of soybeans on our surfaces. As far as corn is concerned, it doesn't matter, because genetically modified corn is not the corn that found a place in our production, because our domestic hybrids, which are being sown to 95% of the surface, and how they stand side by side with white-world corn hybrids, and they will certainly win that battle, because they are good and quality. In other species, fortunately, there is no pressure on genetically modified organisms, and we really have good and healthy food, as far as all other plant species are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13963	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with the predecessor when he said that imports of genetically modified soybeans are only the result of criminal activities, smuggling, etc. Crimes and smuggling are only part of the solution signed by the Ministry of Agriculture for the import of genetically modified soybeans in 2004. Crimes in 2001 are 50,000 tons of genetically modified soybeans imported into the country, given to Cromivo as a gift from America. ′′Krmivoje′′ turned it into a concentrate and sold it. Where the money went – it will, of course, have to be resolved by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. As far as the price of buckshot from genetically modified or genetically unmodified soybeans is concerned, there is no difference in price on the foreign market. The only difference is that for genetically modified soybeans, they get a commission, because nobody's going to give it to their cattle, but they're selling it like you. As for Professor Malesevic's statement, here I found, it was yesterday's presentation by Professor Malesevic; he says it was actually the denials of the previous Malesevic statement published in a Belgrade daily list, that the genetically modified soy shotgun may not harm our generation. True, but it will harm all future generations and the consequences of future generations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, those 25 tonnes of corn seed, genetically modified, imported the ministry thanks to today's minister and her associates. Our Institute in Novi Sad, in the Zemun field, above all, has nowhere to sell all its capacities, but we sell to other countries and we export genetically pure seed, and we import genetically modified corn. For what? For the commission. He was right to be one of the MPs when he said that certain ministries looked more like criminal nests than the ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13965	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment to article 6 submitted by Serbian Radical Party MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Why should this amendment be accepted? It should be accepted because it is realistic, necessary and hopefully useful in any kind of agricultural production. When it comes to seed production, it should be an initial basis for anyone who would like to deal with this type of activity. Each producer should, if he is a serious producer, carry out the whole seed production process on its land or land under lease. The labs and other shops are coming in later. Why is it so difficult now for someone who does this job to deliver data on the surface and the basis of land use? Such a situation is also foreseen by the amendment to the equipment, machinery and room to be used for a particular type of seed production. If the manufacturer, for example, has to deliver the data on the plant, on the means of operation, why in this case would the seed producers not supply the same data? It turns out that you in the Ministry, not accepting this amendment, want suspicious producers in Serbia, fictitious natural persons and, of course, smuggled seed material. There were few talks about trying to get into the country 25 tons of genetically modified seed material of corn. I'll say one more thing: for a kilo of smuggled seed of some vegetable species, whoever does it will earn about 10,000 euros; imagine what happens when a ton is smuggled, two or more of that material. A question asked by all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party – why today is there no resolute minister, Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic, to defend his bill? Is it fashionable for G17 ministers to run ahead of Serbian Radical Party MPs? What are these more than jobs the ministers have, besides defending their bill? The minister is gone today. There's probably a lot of work to do. Maybe he's taking down the leper beds in the Serbian woods, and our forests are in poor shape. Did they get hit by a leper, if G17 plus got hit by them, the same thing gets caught.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13967	The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13968	The MP from G17 plus told me about my exposure that it did not come down to this item on the agenda, or whatever he said. I have to mention, in your case, it all comes down to imports, to money, to interest, to genetically modified soybeans, corn, what's the part, as you're already doing. I think it's more of a shame to be here talking about things. Say nice to the cameras what you're going to do specifically for the peasants, not to make money, but to get them to survive. You should be more ashamed of how you lie and deceive the people. You won't be long, I can tell you that until the next election, and your chair is shaking. It's a very fast election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13969	The word has been made by Ambassador Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one ministry that won't be a G17 Plus ministry for a long time, and it's the Ministry of Agriculture, when a very important seed law is passed then there's less to be done by administration and more to the people who are going to create such a law. One of these laws is created by specialists in seminary from agricultural schools and institutes. We have learned that you, gentlemen, did not use the services of top-notch experts in seminary, such as the professor of academics Skoric, but simply sat in the Ministry's offices and felt that this law was so world-class, so well done by European standards that you simply did more administrative work than anything else. Vitomir Plužarevic, in Article 6, wanted to explain in his amendment that when the real data on the manufacturer should be added the land area and the basis of that use. You can't make on one surface that's seventh-class varieties of certain cultures, like sunflowers and corn, without knowing it's first class. The basis of this amendment is precisely that these surfaces are in accordance with the laws governing the cultivation of varieties. As regards its second addition, it is normal to add, after point 5, point 6) which is the information on equipment, machinery and rooms, according to the type of seed production for which the application is submitted. So, one producer would have to have absolutely certain (against European and world standards) equipment, which will allow for seeds of a certain quality, and that is possible only if it has good machinery and rooms, distributes later to the last manufacturer. The bottom line is that you should really respect the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, since the MP group and the SRS themselves are seriously approaching every bill, and especially the seed law, knowing that agriculture has been brought absolutely to the lowest scale of the survival of farmers, and thus the seed, growers and all those in the seed distribution chain, and since we know that we are amongst the top experts in Europe and the world. I think the ministry gentleman should be here. I'm sorry the minister isn't here to listen to our amendments. and I invite you to vote on the SRS amendments in the voting day, which are certainly of quality, and this is all we want to do to improve the Semen Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13971	The word has an MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made a decision not to report by amendment, because in the opening statement, I said that most amendments, almost all of them, do not fall under this law at all, but should go to some other law that will protect those who produce seeds, which create new varieties, etc. But here there are so many false things and so many offensive things that I had to react. First of all, someone was talking yesterday about how the villagers were brought into a difficult position, destroyed by this government, previous government, etc. I'll give you just one example from practice: in 2001 my son sold all the wheat in 2000 and 1999, because the price was so low that there was no bill and was waiting with the payment that inflation eats; therefore, he sold some seven and a half dinars only in 2001, when the real price was brought, with the birth of 2001. Secondly, colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture know perfectly that all agricultural laws are passed after a large-scale public debate that takes place and in which everyone is involved. I'll tell you something about the election at the end of this. So everyone who's interested participates in the process. Do you know how many boards we have, where we participate, where we go, where the Ministry maintains public stands? So, even when it comes to this seed law, everyone who wants to change the law could participate. I remind you once again, one of the same large institutes as the one who has submitted amendments, the people of the institute, the same production is done and thinks this law is good. A fellow who, like you, from another opposition party, has submitted amendments to this law has withdrawn amendments and has now told me – I am going to make a statement to the media that the law is good. It's just that most of these amendments don't belong to this law at all, they belong to someone else. I'll give you one more example. I've got a friend who's been waiting 30 years for the lottery premium; he's playing all kinds of games: a bookies, sports forecasts, etc. Sometimes he gets a little bonus, but the main premium never gets. I'm afraid there are those here who will also wait for the election results, but the premium will never be won.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13973	Mr. Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13974	On the basis of the expert proposal of the expert party and the expert law, someone is calling for the lottery, so something doesn't add up. But, okay. Since there is a constant appeal here to return to the agenda, it is up to the amendment to Article 6 submitted by Mr Vitomir Plužarevic. I just skipped the amendment to article 5, which is in close contact with this member. Since the expert discussion, the expert facts, to warn those experts – 40% of all the rules that the EU has made, which you are scrambling through this study, is about to sign, refers to agriculture. The European Union had an interest in doing so in the smallest detail, so that it would not happen if finished products were thrown into France because peasants were unhappy with the ransom price and the price of their goods. First of all, the EU has provided its food and agricultural safety, and then it could be surplus in industrial products and conquer other markets. It protects itself most when it comes to agriculture. The link to the amendment to Articles 5 and 6 – Article 5(2) states that the production of seed can also be done by a natural person in a form of contractual relationship, and it is likely that it is a manufacturing operation with a legal person registered to be involved in the production of seed. Mr. Cavic has submitted one amendment precisely in the direction in which you force farmers to register, register. You didn't accept that amendment and you said it was only for the budget. Article 6 is subject to an amendment for the simple reason that there are rules in which certain issues should be regulated in principle, but there are rules in which these issues should be very precisely regulated, so that the harmful consequences, due to legal voids and holes, are not disastrous and devastating for life, health, security and security of citizens and the state at all. This regulation falls within that set of rules. Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic has only asked with the amendment that whoever deals with seed production, in order to register, in order to become an official seed producer, must also meet the conditions regarding equipment, machinery, etc. You don't accept that amendment. You're saying that you're some experts, and you know that in a few years' time, it's going to be, say, a whole new regulation in that EU of yours, where you're moaning, where you're going to have to use Euro diesel in agricultural production. By this year, 5% of total energy balances must be euro diesel, and by 2010, this must be 10%, with a tendency for agricultural machinery to use this ecological fuel to reduce land pollution. Don't say you're some kind of expert, you're absolutely ignorant in this area. You're looking to get through here, and on concrete examples of abuse of power, you're defending yourself by not being a part of the agenda. There's no seed law, there's no other law that can prevent bad morals that can prevent crime. That should be handled by the General Criminal Code. As there is no regulation that can stop Mladjan Dinkic, i.e. "Avram nesparić" in the fight against piracy, to push piracy, to stop action, it is also with seed, fruit and other materials, which are somehow controlled by G17 plus. Yes, you can turn your head, lift your eyebrows, but you see for yourself, whatever G17 plus gets caught for, we first thought about where the money is, where the banks are, insurance companies, finance, etc. And now we hear seeds and seed material. What Velija Ilic said, hang a little bit, turn around. Whatever you're getting at, it ends up turning out to be a crime. You had to accept this amendment. If you are not due to this point 6), where it is perfectly normal to control whether the conditions regarding equipment, machinery and other resources required as a condition for that production are met, in order to guarantee quality production and quality seed, which you did not accept this intervention in respect of attitude 4 where it is said to – if the conditions are met, the minister shall make a solution for enrolment in the Register. As you wrote, "The Minister is bringing a solution," regardless of the conditions, someone will say it's supposed to be. You can't assume anything, but you have to write it specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13975	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seed production is an area treated by Article 6 of the Law to which the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Anyone who wants to engage in the contents of this amendment... and I believe that 90% of the MPs from the ruling majority do not have this amendment in front of them, and that is why they are speaking in their minds, only to defuse the intention of the SRS, which is absolutely incredible and impossible, to try to convince you to improve. I really don't know how you can say that this amendment is only for the sake of amendments, when it clearly and precisely defines the production of seeds in Article 6. Mr. Plužarevic wrote nicely that in Article 6 paragraph 2 point 3) after the word "data" is added the words "area of land and the basis of land use o" and after point 5) a new point. So he didn't even go on to change the existing one, but in order to define more precisely who he could be dealing with the production of seeds, he said point 6) reads: "data on equipment, machinery and rooms, according to the type of seed production for which he submitted the request. "Stat 4 has changed, and it reads: "The Ministry shall make a decision on the entry in the Register if the manufacturer fulfils the prescribed conditions laid down in Article 2. "What is the issue then, when he went absolutely to improve, to avoid abuse and to define who these people are ready to do, both with the surface of the earth and with the machinery and equipment they have. So it's not exactly your story that we want to submit amendments to this unedited and poorly-proposed bill just to endure it. If you follow the trail from the first amendment of the SRS to the last one, you will see that, unlike you, even though we are not in power yet, and we will be in a few months, we have a national strategy for the development of agriculture. It didn't just show up on this law. Remember, when we had in the last term a bill on cheese, which was proposed by Ambassador Lazar Marjanski, a prominent farmer, among other things, and man is both an engineer and a manager in Energogas, you made fun of it. At that time, you also supported Minister Vitosevic, and not just you, Mr Rafaelovic, but most of the MPs who are sitting here now, who are again in the assembly. You said it wasn't good. How is it not good, if we want to help, unlike this law, to farmers. With everything Mr. Plužarevic and other Serbian radicals have said, I have proved once again that he is a better member of the law with the amendment of Mr. Plužarevic. You're talking about a period of five years ago, and then I can go back to the 2003 period and ask an open question about the way the intervention imports 100,000 tonnes of wheat in the spring-year of 2003, or 2002, when it was unrecorded drought and when the harvest drop was 30-40% and when it was the same minister from the same expert organisation, from the same government that we sharply criticised, under, least of all, the suspicious circumstances carried out by intervention imports of 100,000 tonnes of wheat. We don't have it, nor can it happen. Of course, I appreciate what you're doing, because you want to tell us that you're an authentic representative of agricultural producers. But one of the MPs comes out of the ruling structure, and he tells us something like that, and he has no idea what he's talking about, or who knows when he was in the country, or he's met with it, he's never been in any institute, or he's got a side of the grain; one of the most famous of those institutes is in Kragujevac, and now these people have a problem because of the poor work of the new city government and because of the removal of the Institute. People who have nothing to do with the agricultural profession, but in a variety of ways, or through their political or other engagements, they know and believe that what the SRS is doing is to correct this law. All others who want to tell us otherwise, or come forward, and are not ready to discuss this law, remind me of Cedomir Jovanovic and his famous role (between his other roles) in harmonising the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro, when he was supposed to be harmonising for 54 agricultural products, so he dared to say, for example, that Dutch potatoes are better than the one in Prikatika. Don't let us deceive the public and belittle our esteemed agricultural producers and all the people... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... who may have a intention, but have no incentive from the state, to deal with agricultural production. If giants are shutting down, if there are fewer people in the country, if mostly in the forest villages the nursing home is present, unfortunately, if after 100 years in a village near Topola, in the village of Božurnja the school is shut down because the village is dead, then let's talk about how it can be improved. Be assured that farmers in Serbia will understand both Mr. Plužarevic and the SRS in this way that we want good Serbia's agriculture and we will do everything, in the period when we are in power, to make that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13977	Mr. Kronic, you once used the law and talked about the amendment. You don't have two rights. Replica is requested by the People's MP Rafaelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13978	I don't want to do anything big, I just want to remind my colleague - and it can be done by the members of the Agriculture Committee, who can tell you how critical I am to both the Ministry and everyone on the Committee and how much I stood for the price of the wheat, etc. - The point of the whole story is that a good part of the amendment, and I know all the amendments, because we discussed them on the Committee, belongs to some other laws. We have made a decision, and it is not relevant to this amendment, that we are asked to be approved by this Parliament to pass a law on the protection of those who produce and produce seeds. As for the second part of the story, if you remember, in 2001, when I was elected by the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government, when I came out for this pay phone, I said it was the Serb village, which I have been saying since 1992, the largest nursing home in Europe. I invite you here, let's go to the Committee on Agriculture to make a strategy in this House how to save the Serb village not only because there are young people there, because it's nice for us in the country and that there are more young people, of course it's nice, but because it's for us to save and our territory doesn't fail and not be lost as well as Kosovo. Let's work on that plan and erase the boundaries between the position and the opposition, and let the next government do so, whoever comes to power, and all governments in the coming years. The village did not become a nursing home, aged because these governments turned the village into one. It's a long-term process that started in the '50s. It's simply tempting for people in the country to have their daughters and sons in town, that's what everyone wants. Serbia is in the interest of every part of the territory being covered. But it's not just old age in the village. The problem is, and I'll tell you something that I carry deep inside me, a peasant is a man outside the law. In Serbia for a long time, so today, we are not in parliament, we are not on boards. How many peasants there are presidents of municipalities in municipalities that are almost exclusively rural, where there are most peasants. Are we in any institutions? All parties, including this side and that party, remember us only when the elections are. When they choose, they don't. Let's do something to create this Serbia and save it from maybe someone talking in 10 years about what to do with the southern part of Serbia, what to do with the mountainous parts of Serbia, where there are no more inhabitants, not young people. So let's do something and save that village. It's not a political question, it's a matter of all of us and all of us equally stalling, I say, and the SRS, and the G17, and the DSS, and all of us. Let's work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13979	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13980	It is a Serb village in big trouble, as well as agricultural producers, but they see no salvation or future with such a minister and such a government. These are reactions to this bill and to the debate we had last week, and what people from the field would say, i.e. reactions from individual forest villages, is not about whether someone's intention is good, but whether they're capable of doing something or not. When I was talking about the amendment to Article 1 of this Law (that day the minister was not present), I said something that I did not invent, nor could I have come up with that knowledge alone, because I am not dealing with it, as most MPs do not particularly with agriculture, but through a study that professional people in our country did, not two or three years ago, but even seven years ago. It turns out we don't have enough developed branches of agriculture. Another problem is that farmers today in Serbia don't trust this government at all, nor do they have the opportunity to live better and make them better, let alone try to keep their children and return and start doing something. You mentioned earlier that most municipalities in Serbia from the position of local self-government do not have a clear vision of how to help agricultural producers. How can there be them when, with the exception of the AP Vojvodina, 25% of municipalities in Serbia have one way, practically, survival, without any development programme, without any strategy for how the village can be revived. There are four particularly agrarian municipalities in Šumadija and none of the local self-government leaders, starting with the town of Kragujevac, via Knic, Race or Topola, have yet to report how they can help these agricultural producers. The one who throws away – the Aryan should know that it is not a typical agrarian municipality. These indeed are, with some of the above very dissociative. The villages were left at the mercy of the agricultural producers. To get into some Racan village now, you'll think it was 1948, nothing has changed. There's nothing there, there's no local roads, there's no development. That is why I argue responsibly, and today farmers know, because of the programme that the SRS has, starting with local self-government, through the agriculture programme and the development strategy of these neglected agricultural branches, that we will be able to help farmers at the moment when we come to power, because local self-government, to the extent to which it should worry, is not concerned. There's no farm development fund. The only sacred example, as far as Vojvodina is concerned, but it is only in the beginning, is the municipality of Kickinda, whose president, Dr Branislav Blazic, who promised in the election campaign to establish a fund for agriculture, and he did so, and to help those who want to produce healthy food. But how do you promote (I mean the ruling majority) healthy food and the production of what can have a safe placement and improved export structure in the area of agriculture, when Mr. Momir Markovic for days (and can continue for five days) presented solutions whereby the minister himself approves of importing thousands of tons of genetically modified soybeans. Then there's no talking to such authority and people like that. Essential changes are needed, and people see them in Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13981	The word has been made by Ambassador Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13982	As an authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I did not want to get involved so far in the debate on amendments for several reasons. First, what we discussed on the Committee on Agriculture and what we received from the Ministry's representatives too many answers and I don't think there is any need to continue to discuss it. Secondly, because these amendments are not the original amendments of the SRS, they have been taken from the materials of the Institute of Ratio and Vrtivstvo from Novi Sad. So, that material has me and everyone else. There has already been talk that the Democratic Party of the same amendment has put on the agenda, however, Mr Micovic, the former chairman of the Agriculture Committee, after the ministry's explanation, withdrew the amendments, even on the Committee did not vote in favour of these amendments, because he realized that these are amendments which, as Mr Kronic has already said, are being processed by other laws. These are too many amendments, but they are processed in other legal solutions and there is no need, nor can they be built into this law. That's why I don't get involved in the debate, but it's amazing... Of course, I know that any political party can use this pay phone to promote its programme. When they come out of the board, I absolutely don't mind them, it's their job. It's funny when people who have nothing to do with agriculture, lawyers, don't talk about other professions, and so talk professionally about this really professional law. This is a professional law that shouldn't be politicized. It just can't be politicized, except for that story about smuggling, crime and so on, which has nothing to do with this professional law. When these experts show up for everything, then it's really weird and then we get into a situation to mention this famous law of our former colleague, Laza Marjanski, about the sorghum as an elemental accident. That was one ridiculous bill. I've been commenting on that in the last term. What was the proposal – I don't know, but the whole of Serbia laughed at this bill, because an orphan can never be an elemental disaster. There can't be any sorghum in one field and there can't be no sorghum on the other. So where the host is, where it's done, all technical measures apply, where the pest is taken into his hands, there's no sorghum, and where it's politicized, where other things are done, where the field is left abandoned, there's an orphan that can be an elemental accident. So I'm really calling for us to get back on the subject. Let everyone express their opinion on the amendment, but I urge that the people who are in the profession talk a little bit about it, that these ′′universaires, however, drop the ball a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13983	First Mr. Krstin answered and then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13984	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I couldn't help but walk out and answer to a respected colleague of the Committee on Agriculture. It's not true, gentlemen, that someone wrote us amendments, and you only say that from one institute. Gentlemen, there are two very important institutes with us. These are the Institute in Novi Sad and the Institute in Zemun polje. It is not true that they wrote us amendments, but we would be happy that you took at least one of those esteemed people who create varieties throughout Europe, Professor of the Academy of Skoric. The bottom line is that the members of the Committee have been involved in the proposal for a seed law. There's no way anyone else was writing us amendments. Turns out someone else was writing me amendments. I could only consult with some of the growing houses, so that these amendments would really be in line with the laws prescribed by the EU or the world organisation. As for the sorghum, I come from where Lazar Marjanski is from. The difference between mine and its inhabited place is 10 kilometers. Someone says an orphan can be destroyed; there's no means to destroy it. Simply, nursing households cannot and no longer have the means to prevent it from spreading from field to field. First, you should know, gentlemen, how it reproduces. Secondly, such a root, depth and a few meters – so I don't know which farmer could only cut it with a hoax. It's not for digging trenches, it's for us to enter the 21st century. It's no longer about hooks, it's about chemical resources, which are produced by our very own agricultural institutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13985	At the opening of Arsen Kurjački on the amendment, replica, Natasa Jovanovic. Just to let the MPs know the way I'm going to run this session. So, after the end of this agenda, or after the end of today's session, the Assembly will not work tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So, the session will continue on Tuesday at 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13986	I'm reporting on the replica of my colleague Kurjak, because he used the assembly pay phone without knowing what he was talking about, because we're talking about an amendment to Article 6. The bill, submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Not that no one has written amendments to the SRS, but in this assembly, regardless of whether the worker, farmer, university professor, lawyer, electrician, there is no one more competent than the Serbian radicals to tell you in your face what the situation in Serbian agriculture is today because you, overshadowed by the role played by both the minister and the government, are not able to see it. Mr. Kurjački, if you had this power of persuasion and argument, you would have (but, thank God, that didn't happen) convinced the parent board to do otherwise, but people were so reasonable that they listened to Mr. Mikavica, they did the right thing, freed the city of Novi Sad. It is a city that is now moving forward, there is a mayor who is working well with the assembly majority, and if you cannot convince your party colleagues there, don't come here to convince the Serbian public or MPs to change their attitude, especially when it comes to the amendment of Mr. Plužarevic. What's that supposed to mean now? Is that supposed to mean that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, theoretically, there are no doctors, and there are many of them from all political parties, and there are many of them in the SRS; there are also professors of the university, such as Professor Poscurica, who usually leads from the village and has a working country and his parents live there, or like his colleague Marjanski, whom we already talked about, or a colleague of Christin, who also deals with agriculture, but he does some other work. What are you saying - that we who have relatives in the country or have a farmland do not know anything just because we are not actively farming? It's really insolence and insolence, because that's how you want to demean the people's representatives, regardless of which parties they come from, and that's exactly who you absolutely don't have the right to talk about. I don't even know how this party came to the idea of empowering you to say anything about the bill. You keep calling on Micovic. That means that as a member of the DSS, the Democratic Party is closer to you than your parent party. Why are you talking about Micovic, who withdrew his amendments and had no amendment to Article 6, which is now being talked about? That's because the solutions are contained in some other law. Who says those solutions can't be incorporated into the seed law? You've got some weird attitude. Can the Privatisation Committee or perhaps the Committee on Agriculture not do that? You need to make sure that the key law, the law that codifies crimes, the criminal code... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... comes as soon as possible to the Assembly's agenda, and then we'll tell you, but by name, for all ministers who will have to comply with the Criminal Code. Don't worry about what some solutions are, to improve the legal proposal, as we do, contained in this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13987	The President of the Assembly sets out the agenda and takes care of it. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Rankovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the villages and I do agricultural production. As for the past tense, some MPs insisted that they were the only ones dealing with production and that someone remembered the peasants only before the elections. As far as the SRS is concerned, I'd like to say a few things. In the Serbian Radical Party, care is taken in advance for both the village and everyone. As I said before, I come from the village and I do agricultural production. I know a lot of SRS MPs who deal with agricultural production, and many of them are masters of technical sciences, they have a country, and it increases the complexes of the agricultural land. Since I am engaged in agricultural production, exclusively in fruit material, it is good that this law on seed and fruit material is divided into two laws. However, there should have been a law on newly created varieties. I believe, which was heard in the previous debate, it is good that we from the Serbian Radical Party accept the advice of some of our experts. It is the success of our party, because the profession and science should always be respected and appreciated, not as individuals, who would more appreciate the side of the profession and the side of science. With so many of our experts in the country, it would be foolish for our experts to go abroad. The current, current government has criticised the former Socialist Authority for forcing our experts and students from the country. It continues now, to a much greater extent than it was during the former government. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Points 3 and 4 are deleted and point 6 is added), as Article 8 is all already regulated and covered, by insisting that point 4 be deleted, because it is not a condition for performing production operations, but rather a data being entered in the Register. If point 4 were to be accepted, Article 8 would have no full meaning. The biggest problem with all your laws is that you are proposing laws that are not easy to apply, and it seems to be according to our people: "What must be simple when it can be complex? "As for these laws of yours, I'd like to tell you one more thing. All your laws are often passed because of trade or smuggling. We advocate to get everything in order, but these laws of yours give a great opportunity to trade lobbys. I'd like to establish the existence of a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13989	Thank you, Mr. Rankovic. There's a president of the Parliament who's authorized to do that. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please establish the quorum. I find the Assembly doesn't need a quorum to work. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. I'm asking at the beginning to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot help but return to what the SRS MPs have come out so much about the Seed Law proposal. You know, when someone repeats so many times that you still had to from the Ministry of Agriculture to use seed specialists from the Faculty of Agriculture and the Institute, you still didn't do it, and then what's going on, these shortcomings in your Seed Law proposal. Article 9 states nicely that the manufacturer is obliged to keep a record book on seed production. But, gentlemen, he is not sufficiently supported by facts, and it will only be when Article 9 adds Article 2. But first, let me explain to you, to see that no one is writing us amendments. Well, it says here – the book of records on the production of seeds referred to in Article 1(1) contains: the number of solutions on entry in the Register (which is logical), the name of the person who performs the tasks of professional management of seed production (which has logic), the review plan of seed crops, i.e. objects with clearly marked parts where seeds are produced (this is what we are in one of the previous amendments, and I think it is on Article 6, said), the type, or variety and year of production of seeds with which it is based (it would have to have every normal to have as a book of records), and then - the amount of total seed received, data on the way of production, type and date of production of the works. But, gentlemen, you should know that in this position 2 after the last words - the performance of the works should stand – the business name of the holder of the right to protect the variety with which the contract on the multiplication of the variety has been concluded. Well, that's very logical, and if you don't insert what we want to do with this amendment right now, I don't really see that this Article 9 is going to be exactly the way it's supposed to be, it's going to be unthinked. Further – data on the control of seed production. Well, it's logical to enter data on seed production in that book. The production of seeds will only be able to be controlled by people from the agricultural college, whether it's from the ratites or from the vegetable sector, depending on what seed it is, or whether it's people who are going to help bring that area to life and to control the seed, normally, by agronomic means, i.e. The man who finished protecting the plants. Then – the amount of natural seed produced, pay attention – the business name of the grower to whom he delivered the produced natural seed. So the business name of the contractor. Well, gentlemen, it makes sense to be a firm. You can't just make a physical face a declaration. He can't be the one who'll only stand for his name and name. It is known where it can only be done, and it is known that in this case, in this Article 9, when filled with attitude 2, then it will be even more formal and somehow feasible, it should stand and – the number of convictions about the recognition of crops issued by the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs. Now, these government gentlemen didn't like it, and most of them didn't like it in the Committee on Agriculture. There are five MPs in the SRS Agriculture Committee. But that's why there's a committee of 15 MPs, the Committee on Agriculture, and it's logical that the rest of you, I say DOS majority, will outvote us five, because they don't think it's necessary to enter this Article 9. But we simply want to say – confidence in the recognition of crops issued by the ministry responsible for agricultural affairs. You won't even admit that the Ministry should be the one to issue a confidence in the recognition of crops. Well, we do and we see that this law is complete, because we will normally, in the first election, and that will happen as soon as possible, have our Minister of Agriculture and that is why we want this law to be complete, so that we don't make seed production laws there again in the fall. It will be complete if we adopt these amendments in the voting day and it is normal that this amendment to Article 9(2) should be accepted for sure, because it is the only way that this proposal for seed law will be legally and legally regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13992	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13993	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the Semen Act, Article 11 of Article 3 which is amended and reads: "The maintainer of the variety can multiply and examine the pre-basic seed of the variety which is in the process of recognition in the Republic, with the application of the Ministry. "The explanation is – this amendment prevents the impact of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management on the business policy of breeders, which is in the process of recognising or obstructing the fulfilment of contractual obligations towards foreign partners, and allows for the recording of all activities in seed production. I must refer to the discussion of a national MP from the ruling coalition. The man asked what should be done and how to save the village. I was born in Kopalnik, but I come from India and I know very well what needs to be done. I must say, and it also applies to this amendment and to this law, that the government must first be as fair as it is, and not to participate in various affairs, especially in these last five years from 2000 to 2005, starting with electricity, JAT, returning money from Cyprus, through politics and other things. So, the government needs to ensure that he buys products from peasants, pays them immediately, serves good credits, supplies and supplies doctors in these villages, especially mountain-mounted, good roads, and there will be no problem for our villages to come back to life and for the youth to return to those villages. This also applies to villages that are in flat areas. So it doesn't take much wisdom. The SRS knows very well, and it will make it possible soon, because elections will come this year, when the SRS will win the election, they will win. We're going to make it possible for the villagers, not just through the story that we're racing here who's a major producer and a peasant; we all know the production, and in fact none of you are dealing with it, except by laundering money and other things they've shown for the last five years, what you've been doing. That is why I propose that this amendment and all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party be adopted. How much we're going to save this law and this government from the trade, the money and the other resources that they do most and love most, and these are the finances. I propose to the Assembly that we accept amendments to the SRS and make this law as bearable as possible for our peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13994	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 and this amendment reads in Article 13(4): "The professional organisation can carry out professional control tasks if it has adequate equipment and three employed graduates of agriculture, the direction of wartime, vegetable or general, and a graduate agricultural engineer, the direction of plant protection, with at least five years of work experience in the affairs of control and a professional exam. "We advocate in this article that the profession comes to terms and that we do not get that some volunteer gives some of his comments or, God forbid, as we now import without a declaration or the declaration on our seeds is just labeling itself. We want to fix the current article 13. The following point 5 is added: "The ministry prescribes the conditions of technical equipment to be met by a professional organisation for production control tasks. "The amendment raises the level of professional competence and equipment of the organisation that performs the professional control tasks of seed production. The position 5 sets out the responsibility of the Ministry for the Prescription of Conditions of Technical Equipment of Professional Organisations. In some previous comments, even today, it was said that we as the SRS did not have a programme for agriculture, or in this context we were not prepared, but simply copied, or correspondence on this subject. I think that, in particular, I am speaking to the members of the Committee, we have not prescribed any, and in particular we have not favored any of the institutes, which I highly appreciate and respect. I felt uncomfortable at that meeting of the Committee, where science was on one side, and on the other hand politics was covered by inexperience, youth, and other ideas. This policy and that youth have denied the science that had its objections to this law. I have another little comment, and that's whether we as the SRS have a farming program. We do, but he's not the subject. I will only list some examples of how the current authorities and the proposings of this law behave today, in line with the wishes of our agricultural producers, and that is whether we need a sugar affair. We know that Miroljub Labus and his entire crew have now put it under the carpet and are allegedly looking for the culprit, the culprit should be found. You know who's responsible, you know who took the money, you know where the money went. So it's one of the parts of our program. I'm gonna mention that weird import of crazy cows. So, a certain number of heifers, you don't know which paths and which paths, entered our country to, like, improve the parent fund or the herd of those cows. It's one of the SRS programs. So, we need to produce the local varieties, or the best quality symental beef produced in Serbia, and thus rise up, or try to go out into the world, not to have the world send us a third-rate or who knows which class of goods. We have in our program that we will not import salads and other vegetable cultures that are current today, which are valued, for example. meat, potatoes, watermelon. We are mostly importing a lot of rat, tail and ears now, and our quality meat industries can't deal with the team, allegedly have no certification, i.e. they haven't given these G17s a chance to enter, even if they're covered by a European or world market. We don't want the agriculture profession at seminar level but science, but we don't want those famous Hendersons, or I don't know what to call them, which give us the certifications and give us the opportunity to minimize our profession, that is to say, that their profession is at a higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13996	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13997	We want from our academics, which is Kostic, Škorić, Simic and other top experts working on this profession. We don't want to import wheat. It's a platform that doesn't require much attention in that comment. We want to be the main producers, or exporters in the world market, and the famous Serbian quality wheat we're proud of and we can go out to the market. We don't want 18 billion dinars in our stock reserves. We might be able to comment on this subject a lot. We don't want any stranger buying land, and that's our SRS program. We don't want our life to be as wasted as it is for you. The other Serbia is to you, not to us. So we live in one Serbia and we will fight for this Serbia and through this law and through all other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13998	The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic. I would ask my colleague, Plužarevic, next time, to consider his exposure for five minutes, as scheduled by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u13999	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic's amendment. In Article 13(4), its amendment refers to adequate equipment and three employed agricultural engineers for an organisation that is to professionally control seed production. I think the legal solution is better, because if we know this matter, we know what that man has to do. He needs to carry out professional production control. Therefore, it is necessary that we have an expert who knows how to do it. All he needs is one car to get to the field. First of all, an expert is necessary. The legal solution says: "A professional organisation can perform professional control tasks if there is an employee graduate agricultural engineer... "My colleague Plužarevic says he should have three employed agricultural engineers. Of course, one, three, five or ten, depending on the volume of production that this expert is in charge of controlling. I think it would be a little rigid for this law to prescribe a small agricultural station, which should control, say, a thousand acres of some production, that there must be three graduate engineers. They need one, and those who control 20, 30 or 50 grand of course can't handle one of those controls. Therefore, if we stick to the discussion of the letters of this amendment, I think the legal solution is better and there is no need for the law to prescribe this part. I also agree with my colleague Plužarevic's views. Of course, we want the same thing, developed agriculture that works according to the laws that exactly determine and regulate what business is: whose business is the creation of a variety, whose business is to maintain a variety, whose business is the production of all seed and other categories, to be governed by the law, to know who makes the variety, to know who produces it, to know who controls it, to know who gets it done, to know who puts it on the market, who puts it on the market, who puts it on the retail market, and to make it legal, just so it doesn't come to what used to be in our country, to have the monopolitical behaviour of certain people who want to control that process from the creation of the variety to retail. The process must be controlled by a state body according to strictly established principles and these principles must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14000	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, colleague Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14001	I appreciate that you have to defend this proposal for a seed law, but I can't understand that you're holding back the production of seeds or seeds from the world's top quality, which is why we're famous in Europe and the world. We need to understand that we are famous in Europe and the world. Not to repeat the distinguished academic professor Skoric and everything else we listed in the discussion, all of us MPs of the SRS. I don't see why the government of Serbia and the Committee on Agriculture are now refusing, again with some overvote, and why there's too much to have three engineers. When creating seeds, it makes sense that we have three engineers. It has to be a military, vegetable or general direction, and it has to be plant protection. Gentlemen, it is essential that we have an expert who will say – on that surface and on that surface we will sow it. Then we will have an expert - a warrior, who will transfer to his fellow security guard – on this plot are our plants, too, i.e. Weeds that will have to be destroyed to create preconditions for the creation of this variety of seeds. I really don't see the reason, as far as adequate equipment is concerned, not all equipment is in the car. In the past, agricultural agronomists, security guards, the direction of warfare, or the general direction, went on a bicycle, and on foot, to a specific plot that produces seeds, and now it's a simple car. They're not proper equipment. You interpret, you see little law and what it means to create one seed. It's not just that, all the countries of this world would create seeds. We're exporting corn. There's no such thing as a European country. We produce seeds for foreign customers in a foreign country. Do you know that? We have areas in Bulgaria, in Ukraine. The thing is, we have our professional people who only do seed production. If you'd asked them and advised them a little bit more... I'm not saying that you haven't consulted the agriculture institutes or someone who came from the Novosad or the Earth Institute for Agriculture at your place at the Ministry, and he's made himself smart and thinks he can do more than five other prominent experts on Serbia's soil. That's not true. Therefore, I really do not see any reason why the amendment relating to Article 13(4) should not be accepted in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14002	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Prvoslav Savic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know why the Government's representatives didn't accept the amendment of MP Prvoslav Savić, who asked that after the first position of Article 16, where he said: "The Minister, on the basis of the documentation of the production control carried out, issue a confidence on the recognition of seed crops for other categories of seed", added: "in 15 days from the day of manufacture, or delivery from a certain expert person of the last report on the control of seed production, and the assurance provides the holder with the right to protect the variety that is multiplied". Therefore, MP Prvoslav Savic only wanted to hold a bureaucratised service at the ministry or at the ministry for 15 days. If you give all the documentation, all controls are carried out over certain seed material, it all ends, why don't you give it 15 days to issue this assurance and that this seed institution can have it there tomorrow, right after 15 days, and not wait for some deadline that the ministry likes. I suggest that we adopt this amendment in the voting day and so little deberocratise the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14004	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14005	Mr. Chairman, you're having trouble with the quorum again, but good. It's a good thing electronics shows the quorum's down. It is truly a wonder that the Ministry, or Government, did not accept this amendment as a proposing of this law. First of all, he created a new product in the function of legal certainty for the manufacturer, i.e. whoever adopted certain production. He should be given that confidence in the recognition of seed crops. It's a 15-day proposal. If you consider that there are appropriate provisions in the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which regulate the time-limit of one assurance, then I must tell you that this is nevertheless a special regulation, a special area and it requires a certain specificity, and this time-limit proposed by Mr Savic is in the function of legal certainty, because if controls have been carried out, the documentation is provided, the minutes made, the completion of the release procedure, then within a certain period, appropriate assurance should be made. By the way, I think you've misused the term "confident" here, because belief, based on Article 171. The General Administrative Procedure Act, one authority shall issue on the basis of the official record of the information it has. You here need to bring either a certificate or a solution that admits it. You accepted this wrong termology – confidence. I'm surprised the Republic Legislative Secretariat has allowed this to go down, although it's been going through us since you set out to comply with some of the European Union's regulations. This member is a good reason to point out that the bill promoter doesn't know what the minister is and what the ministry is. You here have provisions where you say - the ministry is required to work, the minister is required to work. In the legislative technique, it's wrong. When both the minister and the ministry are said, and then the ministry is said to be in charge of jobs, so it states which jobs, the jobs of agriculture, what it will look like, who will be an incoherent organ or what an internal organisation within the ministry will look like, that's the thing the government takes care of. You'll have a real mess of the Ministry standing somewhere, and there's a minister standing somewhere. The minister is likely to sign the solution, the minister is likely under the Law on Ministrys, the Law on Government and the Law on State Administration can transfer that authority to an assistant, some deputy. You have unnecessarily introduced confusion and this is practically the fashion of this government that there is no clear distinction as to what is the minister, what is the ministry. It is very important business, i.e. it is a matter of jurisdiction. You have no reasonable reason not to accept this amendment, which is essentially what you wanted. I get the impression that there's a pathology here on the ground, because as soon as it comes from the SRS -- back off, don't accept it, and when you hear the reasons from this pay phone why we've proposed some amendment, then experts look into the white books and shut up. The law must look like the law. It can't be a free literary composition. The free literary composition is when ′′Politika′′ sets out a competition and children compete. This is a regulation, it must have its own edge, its own seriousness, and not to cause uncertainty, but to guarantee some security. If you are referring to one of your interpretations of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is subsidically applied to the rules of procedure in this law, then we draw your attention that the deadline within which this solution is issued, and you call it confidence, must be prescribed by this law, because there is a reasonable reason why deadlines should not be applied by a general administrative procedure. It's a miracle that these basic things the government doesn't accept to improve the text of its law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14006	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Stojan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 of the proposed seed law. Article 18 paragraph 1 reads: ′′ Costs of control of seed production and certification of the recognition of seed crops shall be borne by the producer and shall be paid to the appropriate account for the payment of the public revenue of the Republic’s budget. I suggest that the word "manufacturer" be replaced by the words "owner of a variety whose seed is contractually multiplied". The owner of the variety should negotiate the conditions of multiplying his varieties, so he should bear the costs, especially if confidence is delivered to the owner of the variety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14008	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see that we are slowly coming up with what led to this proposal for a seed bill. See how you're making one hell of an absurd. In Article 18, you say - the costs of the control of seed production and the certification of the recognition of seed crops are borne by the manufacturer. I see no reason why the manufacturer would bear the cost of issuing a certificate of recognition of seed crops; why not obtaining it from the owner of a variety whose seed is contractually multiplied. The manufacturer produces, but the one for which that manufacturer produces should be released from the part that you have put on us, rather than the owner of a variety whose seed is contractually multiplied should be the one to pay the corresponding bill for the payment of the public revenue of the Republic's budget. You're making, from member to member, from bet to stand, absurd, surreal seed law. I repeat, do not use people who specialize in seminary, people from the Faculty of Agriculture and Institutes. You just took one or two people who came, you gentlemen from G17, from the Faculty of Agriculture or from the Agricultural Institute, they sat down in the offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and made a law. In Article 3, and there are, for God's sake, 28 points where you explain what UPOV, ISTA, OECD, DUS is all over you have written and it is known that UPOV is the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, etc. When you want to show us some new seed production law, don't drop something that's the most basic. It is not possible to pay taxes and everything else by the manufacturer without the owner of the variety whose seed is contractually multiplied aside. That doesn't make any sense. Please pay attention to the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group when the vote is due.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14010	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the only flaw this amendment has seems to be that it was filed by the Serbian Radical Party. I asked for a point 6 point to be added in Article 21 after point 5 – in working relation to the indefinite working time with the completed agricultural college of plant protection. The answer in the explanation of why the amendment is not accepted says – the amendment is not accepted because the law governing the field of protection of plants is prescribed conditions under which pesticides can be applied, as well as persons who can work on these jobs. Gentlemen, you who boast that you understand yourself in agriculture, do you know how many pesticides are used in agricultural production, what are the quantities, which are the side effects of these pesticides and what can be caused by those pesticides, and when they are in a proportion that is prescribed, and not in the proportion to which they are otherwise used, by an obvious method. The protection of seed plants must be managed by a man who is professional and responsible, to know tomorrow, if any seed is protected by the wrong pesticides, who will bear responsibility and who will say tomorrow that the new seed cannot go into production because of that and that, and above all because of the use of the means of protection. Even plant protection products don't have to be, and it's got to be a top-notch regulation around here, and it can't. I believe that this amendment in the voting day should also be adopted in this way to protect this part of the law relating to seed production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14012	The word has an MP, Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14013	The Honorable Chairman, Article 21 regulates the matter relating to seed processing and it is quite logical that the company, i.e. the legal person dealing with seed processing, which is one physical process to separate natural seeds from mechanical impurities and so on, must have a graduate farmer of the agricultural warfare direction. Also, by another law, the Plant Protection Act, it is arranged that for pesticides to be used in seed production, the same legal person must have a graduate plant protection engineer, who takes care of the application of these pesticides. Therefore, in the seed processing process, both are regulated, but this is regulated by the Law on Plant Protection. So, I'm afraid we've mixed up some things here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14014	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment, in essence, the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Micovic and Milorad Krstin. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14015	This amendment shall require amendments to Article 2. Article 29(2) reads: "For the quality of the seed in transport is the responsibility of the grower, i.e. the importer. "It is perfectly normal, but this provision is not the place in this article, because the first position says: ′′The seeds in terms of quality must meet the prescribed quality standards′′, and what I first quoted is already contained in Article 34 – the seed grower, i.e. the importer is responsible for the damage to the end-user and so on. If you thought that in Article 29, paragraph 2, you gave something that is principled norm, then it doesn't belong here. Article 29 would have to be in point 2 if it had the following: ′′Norme seed quality determines the ministry responsible for agricultural affairs. ′′ For, some processes have passed, innovation, invention, finishing, improvement, a new generation and so on; if this is all successfully completed, then the question of determining the minimum conditions that each seed material must satisfy is also asked. It must be prescribed by a state authority. There's nothing but the ministry. If you were going to go to some variants... I'm just surprised they didn't give an agency here, because, according to other regulations, for many things they introduced some independent regulatory bodies and other innovations. It's a good thing there isn't, that everything goes towards the Ministry as a state body, which is ultimately responsible, because the state is ultimately responsible. It cannot avoid its responsibility and it is therefore better to prescribe in point 2 that the ministry is competent to prescribe these quality standards, minimum conditions, to accept what science has already given as standard. If it wasn't done that way, then we would have come into a situation if we didn't need customs, everything could go away. I'm not reading the explanation of this amendment on purpose. Mr. Stamenkovic gave a great explanation here, where it is said that the existing rule, which is still in force, was at the time worked by the Federal Committee, a administrative organisation responsible for these professional affairs. Because the state in its organization has the possibility that, when it comes to professional affairs, not the authorities of the state administration, the ministry, but to entrust the management organisation with that professional part of the job. It seems a little strange, but this substance could be compared to some similar matter, such as medicines, inventions, patterns, technical innovations. Of course, combined with what practice and specificity of seed production require. I believe that the Government had to accept this amendment, because what you have put in your position 2 is already contained in these provisions, and this is about responsibility. So the poor quality and lack of seed material corresponds to the one who has done the work and the one who has made the imports under certain conditions, if this is verified as being the material purchased, provided in such a way, especially on that parcel and so on. That's why I suggest that you have this in mind and this in the voting day, because there is no reasonable reason why this amendment would not be accepted. If the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture is to be a hat that keeps registers and records in the area of seed production and gives assurances and all these other things, then it is perfectly logical that quality standards are also prescribed. Of course, the ministry is not involved in science, but accepts scientific knowledge, knowledge of the profession, and it pushes everything into some proper norm, whether it was in a sublegal act or some other act, at this point it may not be relevant for this amendment, but it is important that the state says – the minimum conditions it must meet are you, you, you, you, you, everyone must fit into those regulations if they want to deal with this business and to put some of their products into circulation. That is why it is necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14016	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only with an amendment submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, member of the 29th Law, will be complete. It says: ′′The quality seed must meet the prescribed quality standards. ′′ Of course. The quality of the seed in transport shall be the responsibility of the grower, i.e. the importer. ′′ Of course. And thirdly, seed quality standards are determined by the Ministry of Agriculture. Just like this, with these three sentences, this Article 29 of the Law is complete, because there is someone here who will determine the standards for the quality of the seed. If, with the explanation delivered by MP Zoran Krasic, someone responsible for the full procedure from the beginning, from pre-seed to the sowing, why not in the member who regulates this and this third position completes this article and fully regulates this part. I think that even here, as in many previous members, amendments are not adopted not because they are not good, not because they do not complete the law and allow it to be applied in practice, but because they have been submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I think that in the voting day we should really vote for this amendment and then we should have in that Article the 29th round.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14018	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government has proposed that this amendment be accepted. The Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be accepted, by giving a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments, which reads - instead of the words "aprobasin control" - should be referred to as "reliance on the recognition of seed crops". With this legal and technical editorial of the Committee on Agriculture, the applicant for the amendment, MP Zoran Micovic and the proposing representative, agreed. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, without legal technical regulation of the Committee on Agriculture, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14019	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 31 refers to the determination and examination of the quality of the seed. According to point 1 of this Article, the examination and determination of the quality of the seed is carried out by an accredited laboratory. According to Article 2(2), the processor submits an application for testing and quality-finding, i.e. taking samples of the seed of an accredited laboratory. This is where the accreditation is unclear. What labs will have the right and opportunity to conduct examinations and determine the quality of the seed? This is unclear, especially because the proposer said in his explanation that sampling and testing are carried out by accredited laboratories, while sampling can also be carried out by other legal persons if they have an employee of appropriate professional equipment. The reason is that the newspaper in this provision is that only accredited laboratories, competent for a specific type and type of examination, which have passed the expert examination of external assessors, are entrusted with the quality of the seed. The certificate of accreditation of the laboratory is obtained for a certain period of time. What does "expert reviewers" mean? As far as I know, there's a juat, like a body for accreditation. Is this where Juat is meant, if that's still his name? Is JUAT going to credentials these semen-quality laboratories or is it going to be doing some other external houses, and I don't know what external houses they are, are they houses from our country or abroad? We believe it is necessary in the law itself to specify who will determine the conditions that the laboratory must meet in order to obtain accreditation. With this amendment, we propose to add, after Article 31(2), Article 3 which will refer to the conditions that laboratories must meet in order to be able to conduct an examination, i.e. to obtain accreditation to conduct seed quality tests. So, we from the Serbian Radical Party propose to add, after Article 31, a new position 3, which reads: "The ministry responsible for agricultural affairs prescribes the conditions that should be met by the laboratory for obtaining accreditation". This means that some of these conditions have to be prescribed so that some labs can be accredited to examine the quality of the seed. I'd like to make one comparison with article 38, which refers to the label being issued for seed goods. Article 38 states that the label is issued by a professional organisation authorised by the minister, and in the opinion of the third member, the professional organisation must meet the requirements of professional staff, devices, equipment and space. In the opinion of the 5th member, he writes – the minister prescribes closer conditions that must be met by a professional organisation. So here it is called to the Ministry, or the Minister who prescribes conditions that must be met by a professional organisation to be able to issue a label, and in quality studies, no explicit conditions are prescribed that the laboratory must meet in order to obtain accreditation. Is juat, like our home house that does the accreditation, can and is it even intended to credentialize the lab, because it explains that they're doing some extra houses? Based on what regulations, conditions, criteria, parameters will JUAT carry out accreditation? Is that regulated by any special regulation? We believe that this should have been written in this bill, that the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Minister, also prescribes the conditions needed to meet the laboratories in order to obtain accreditation to examine the quality of the seed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14020	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14021	Now it can be realized that this law is as if it was written by Sasa Vitosevic and Milojub Albianic. That's right, by the text we're reading. (More MPs at the same time ask, "Why?" Gentlemen, you know we don't have businesses anymore. You voted for the Business Society Act. The whole of the law is filled with definitions, of what is considered to be the manufacturer: companies, i.e. companies, etc. Now from what you're saying and how you react, I can see you don't even know what a lab is. It's not just one room with a microscope and a test tube. Why didn't you ask that? In the Assembly, you have people who have been professional science for 40 years. They could tell you what an institute is, what a laboratory is, what it takes to register an institute, how much scientific staff it takes, how many professors, how many experts of appropriate professions, etc. We cannot now, at the beginning of the 21st century, master the first steps, which were completed in the mid-19th century. Please don't disrespect the National Assembly. You say "accredited lab." So someone needs to determine that this lab is accredited. It is likely that this laboratory should also have its own form: an institute, an economic society, etc. There can't be a lab. What's a lab? No other law knows what a lab is. It's something about something, it's something small in something big. That means it's some institute, some science facility. If you think you can solve this issue with the law on scientific research, then it's something else. But this is still a specific matter that requires that this law at least solves something. Who should arrange that conditions, in a certain space, with a certain technique, with a certain number of people, in some organisational form, should be fulfilled in order, in your opinion, to get that status of an accredited laboratory? That's what the state has to prescribe. I am not in favour of working conditions, of doing work, of scientific research and of carrying out control, which is also an activity, to be prescribed anything other than the law. The conditions cannot be prescribed by some sublaws. In the explanation of this bill, it says on page 5, paragraph 4, that's where it's explained from Articles 31 to 33, what you thought, so you didn't mean anything. It's a very serious thing. If we conditionally accept your term "accredited lab" that means that it's the lab, that it's that organisational form of some company or institute that has been given the authority of the state to exercise control and that their findings are official. This lab guarantees both the state and the citizens, and the manufacturer and that transporter. When there's a situation that needs so-called. Product sampling, when taking samples and referring to control, is known who can do this. If it's agricultural-food products, then it's authorized laboratories that meet certain conditions. If it's seed material, then it's labs that have to meet certain specific conditions. Experts haven't said a word about it. There are only some abbreviations: the EU, etc., that I do not list them all. It's just that there's talk from study to study. Please, experts, don't behave like that. This is a law that affects one part of our inventors, researchers and manufacturers, including exporters. But it also refers to the second part concerning imports of all these new achievements in the area of seminary. You can't go around the lab. Well, it's not like anyone can do that job. Now tell me what the Ministry is going to say – this laboratory is accredited, this one is not; which these conditions meet, which it does not meet. There are no provisions. As soon as there are no provisions, that's uncertainty. So you're not saying that our farm is run by the one who owns the chemical plant-protection store on Vidikovec? Well, that's Sasa Vitosevic, you made him an expert. (Glasses: Time.) Time, well, time be.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14022	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Here you are, the word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Vucic, according to the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I would like to inform the MPs that it is up to the President of the Assembly to continue our work after 14.00 hours because there are only a few amendments left, in order to complete this agenda point today and continue work Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Of course, if the MPs agree. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14023	I thank you, Chairman. I don't understand what this is all about; we don't have a minister in the O.R. the other day. She's got better things to do, she's traveling around Serbia, she's doing other jobs. I'm sorry, don't humiliate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I'm speaking to the entire parliamentary majority, because the minister has no more important job than he means - defending his law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Minister's gone. She doesn't care, because, who are the messengers, I told them, I don't care if I apologize to them, well, you're murderers, you're bloodthirsty, and I don't know what it is; I've told them I'm very well, she's going to defend me, B92 and someone else, a nice one, and I'm going to show up in the National Assembly, to represent it, I'm not going to, I'm not going to think of it. Now, since that's the case, and at all times you're yelling, time, or I don't know what, then I'm asking you to check the quorum. Besides, I ask you to really say why the minister does not respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's just no excuse for that. I ask the MPs of the majority how they can stand it and for what reason they suffer it. It doesn't matter which political parties they come from at all. It's just amazing that something like that is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14024	Thank you. I can't answer the first question because it wasn't addressed to me, and as far as the quorum is concerned, we're going to determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their MPs' cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14025	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work after a five-minute break. Please determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert the MPs' cards. I understand we have a quorum to work with. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment of Zlatan Jovanovic? No, I don't. ) Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14026	The honourable MPs, such as the previous amendments to the SRS, and those who will follow the Semen Law, and this amendment to Article 32, are logical to supplement and make sense of the position of the 1st member, which requires the conditions to be met by the person for the conduct of sampling operations. I have proposed that a new position be foreseen in this article, which will provide for a solution to meet the conditions for carrying out seed sampling operations to be adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture at the request of an interested legal person, i.e. entrepreneurs. The reason is that this article is not intended to determine the conditions laid down, and it is logical that the solution to meeting the conditions shall be made by the Ministry responsible for agricultural affairs. One more point I suggested this amendment, so that the grower could sample the seeds that he does and the samples to deliver to an accredited laboratory. These two positions would be behind Article 32, paragraph 1, and the points 2 and 3 proposed would become points 4 and 5. I believe that there was no reason why the proposer would not accept this amendment because it appears to be fleeing the responsibility and obligation of the Ministry of Very Important Matter, i.e. in particular when it comes to seed sampling, which is the most important part, in addition to the production of seeds, to establish the validity of the seed through a sample, as produced, and in particular the seeds that are often repacked from year to year, without the professional determination of the validity of that seed. I must take advantage of this opportunity and not her presence at the discussions that are under way about the bill, in addition to those insults to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which the Minister of Agriculture referred to several days ago, that it did not only offend the MPs and this assembly, but it insulted hundreds of thousands of honest and honorable peasants, who today are in fields, in orchards, in stables and doing one of the jobs that is throughout history, and in the future, there will be one of the most common jobs: they are in the production of food for the survival of people and the life of the whole human species. It is incomprehensible that at all such a person can perform the post of minister and especially in such an area as agriculture, and we know how important it will be in the future for Serbia, the Serbian people and for the Serbian state of agriculture. I cannot help but ask questions, probably Minister Markovic-Dulic will hear through his associates, why the 2004 debt for the cherries bought has not been paid to producers of cherries from southern Serbia; it is not yet paid, and now the cherry will blossom again. We know and we witnessed through the media that the Deputy Prime Minister had been negotiating to help the producers of the cherry. What's the result? The result was hundreds or thousands of tons of cherry thrown. Not to mention the final result, because even what they bought, the ice-colders who were in talks with Deputy Prime Minister Labus and the producers, have not yet paid for that cherry they bought in the way they wanted and at the price they wanted. I would also ask the question of what about the payment for wheat, sunflower and soy, which was bought in Vojvodina and to this day has not been paid to producers. Will what happened last July happen again, when the Slovenians came with their hats and bought a piece of wheat in the fields for six dinars? Is this how the field is prepared, with no payment for last year, and in two months there will be a new harvest of wheat. The sunflower is in the process of sowing, and soybean, so that in July the Slovenians come with the tow truckers to buy six dinars for the money they have made, to come to the Croats, to come to the mediators and MPs from Kosovo and to buy wheat for Kosovo and Metohija. Who are those who have bought silos and mills and in whose interest they have taken, allegedly through this fair privatisation, transparent, to buy and to deal with the processing of wheat, the production of flour, and not to talk about bakers. This action, the Undiscovered Door of Europe, which Vice-President Labus and his men tried in Krusevec, did not produce results, but that's why all the TVs are open, all the media to try to fool the Serbian people and Serbian voters again. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14027	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word of the people is the messenger of Mit Abraham.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34 which is closely linked to Article 29 which has already been on the agenda, so I will give you a brief explanation for this amendment. In Article 34 following Article 1, point 2 is added, which reads as follows: "A treaty on the multiplication of varieties, i.e. the service work concluded by the processor with the holder of the right to protect the variety, and depending on the role the processor plays in the process of joint production, the responsibility of the holder of the right to protect the variety for damage to the end-user may be determined". For the quality of the seed, the responsibility of the grower has also been determined when it is only one of the participants in seed production, and in all stages of seed production affects the quality of the seed. One person produces natural seed, the other person conducts production control, the third person performs sampling of the produced seed, the fourth person examines and determines the quality of the seed, according to which the grower is obliged to declare the seed, and the fifth person has provided seed for reproduction that is multiplied. The absurdity of this kind of position of the grower is particularly highlighted in the situation where the developer only performs a service for the owner of the variety. Natural seed obtained from the production not affected by the grower, only servicely added and declared according to the report received from the accredited laboratory and for this seed the grower bears the overall responsibility. In this respect, it is possible to establish the responsibility of the seed owner under whose control production is carried out by means of a contract on the multiplication of varieties or on the service work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14029	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Stojan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14030	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the 35th proposed seed law. Article 35 reads: "The seeds in transport must be packed in the original packaging in a way that ensures the preservation of its quality". This member of the law would remain inconclusive unless the second position provided for in this amendment was added, which reads as follows: "Packing, declaring and marking of seeds, as well as issuing a declaration, is done by a seed grower or a seed importer". This amendment clearly defines who can pack seeds and issue a declaration. Therefore, all parliamentary groups in the voting day should vote in favour of this amendment, in order to be more precisely defined by the adoption of amendments to this Article 35.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14031	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Ambassador Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. Proposal for a seed law. In this article, Article 1 reads: "Depending on the type and category of seed the declarations and labels must be unique according to the content, size, color and must have a serial number". I suggest adding a new position 2 after that, which reads: "The Minister is sorting out the question set out in Article 1." This amendment improves the right and obligation of the minister to settle issues concerning the content and other issues related to the issue of the declaration and the label. Gentlemen, I believe that by this amendment, by supplementing Article 2, it is crystal clear who is to control the affairs of Article 37, and I ask you to vote for this amendment in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14033	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14034	This obvious centralisation of the rights and powers of the Ministry of Agriculture when it comes to this area is probably good and desirable at the moment. However, Sulejman Spaho has rightly submitted this amendment, as regards the declaration and the label that must be unique to the content, quantity, etc., but a sublegal act, a regulation that needs to be regulated in a unique manner, should be adopted by the ministry responsible for agricultural affairs. We have regulations on declaration. However, in addition to not accepting this amendment, the problem is that in the transitional and final provisions of this law there are no deadlines in which the ministry should adopt sublegal acts to which it is authorised by the provisions of this law. Here, MPs can see the article. 105, 106, 107 and 108, and you may notice that there is no time limit for sublegal regulations from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Declaration, labelling, packaging of seed material is not a side issue, because the manufacturer, the manufacturer and the person who does the work and the person who puts it on the market, are in solidarity with what is in the packaging. The packaging should meet the conditions set out in the declaration. That's why the declaration has to be made on that seed material, that whoever uses this seed material knows what they are sowing and what they can hope for. But when you return to the ministry, inform your minister that today is not the time to pick peaches. There may be imports, but picking peaches isn't the time. And let me tell these experts, you know, when you're head-to-head, no matter what, keep in mind and experience of some of the countries that went through this time. You don't have to go far, look at the bright examples from Slovenia. It is not directly on the agenda today, but you should know that the EU, for example, does not allow Slovenians to export the Kranjska sausage. We think it is their brand, that they are known for it, that it is their product, but in the EU their crane sausage cannot be sold. Why? Because it has a high percentage of moisture. By their regulations, they protected their agricultural agricultural agricultural agricultural market. When you comply with our regulations and our standards with EU regulations and standards, you take too much care of our interests and our interests alone. We should pursue these standards, those regulations and the minimum that exists there, but don't think of false confidence in the citizens that as soon as it happens, all our goods will move towards Western Europe. All these standards and regulations of technical goods, ISO 9,000, 9.001, CE sign etc. all is in the role of preserving the closure of the EU market. Let the public know that this is how the market is protected. Now they've announced, I think they're introducing an embargo from next Monday, U.S. sanctions. Don't take your head no matter what. Be careful. In addition, let me inform you, from 1919 to today, this is the year when wheat was least sown. When you say you have three times the agrarian budget, and when you talk about registering farmers, and when you talk about praises, you make sure, last year God gave it, it was a good year, so it gave birth, and this year it's so little sown. Look, ask around the peasants, see what you've done wrong. Don't spread false hope. So, the ministry needs to pass a sublegal act that will regulate, prescribe declaration and labeling, so that legal certainty can also overcome that way between the one who produces and the one who uses it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14035	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Dragoljub Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Sulejman Spah aims to significantly clarify the proposed seed law. Namely, the proposed member did not regulate the question of who is issuing the declaration for the issues offered in this solution. It is a strange manner of the ministry mentioned that where there is a clear need to say why the ministry is determined separately and where it should interfere there is no interference. Space is being placed and space is being opened for an arbitrary interpretation of a minister, an official of the ministry, etc. Where there is a clear need to say what and who issues certain documentation for the work of a particular service, there is an open space to interpret as one of the given situation and given interest responds. I think the ministry proposed by this member of the law should accept this amendment, and especially since there is no answer to the question asked by the MP in the explanation. The explanation says and prescribes the proposed article 37 from the said law. One word does not cover the subject of issuing a declaration, who is authorized to regulate this issue precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14037	The word has an MP named Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14038	The amendment of MP Sulejman Spaha is required to add to Article 37 that the Ministry of Agriculture's responsibility regulates the issue referred to in Article 1, and I quote only what the argument is, means that this amendment lays down the right and obligation of the Ministry to settle issues concerning the content and other issues related to it. That's what we've been talking about so far, means that the G17 plus's favorite activity and their associates are being suppressed, meaning imports of genetically modified soybeans, corn, tampering with customs, stuffing everything and everything in your pocket. How? By prescribing this law and this amendment as having an obligation to regulate the situation, unlike the one you've been able to interpret so far, we thought, we wanted to and so wash it in public for your obvious malpractice that you have to do. I don't know why that's a problem, because the ministry is just and wants to behave in accordance with the law, and to introduce it as an obligation to do this. I'd like you to accept, so we'll see it in the voting day and whether you have honorable intentions or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14039	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14040	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment to Article 38 refers to the declaration. This proposed member of the law, given to us by absent Minister Dulic-Markovic, has four positions. Instead, we ask, and I did so on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that only through one sentence and one attitude is defined who issues the declaration and the label, which is the producer – the importer of the seed. This argument was given in the amendment, which I suggest you adopt in the voting day, and that is the only way to prevent monopoly, manipulation and by the minister, and we openly suspect that such abuses will be by those employed by the Ministry of Agriculture. What's this about? The ministry suggests that the label is issued by a professional organisation authorised by the minister, and this creates doubts that we are speculating who these professional organisations are, because there is no indication of who that could be. If there is a control of the work of the processor through inspection supervision and if through the material responsibility of the processor for damage caused by the end-user, and through its contractual responsibility to the owner of a variety whose seed multiplys, it is already in this way, as we have suggested, secure and then we do not see why you future monopolies, or those who, under simple press or multiplication, can do so through the power of the minister, make such a proposal to Article 38. As we draw close to the end of the debate in detail on this bill, the situations we have today identified with our proposal to resolve the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because you kidnapped General Sreten Lukic and delivered him to The Hague tribunal, we in these other fields, or segments of your rule, see that there is no prosperity there and that you are only waiting for one amendment or law to pass, that you are doing so and you are giving the same explanation everywhere. At all, the ministry is not engaged in the essence of the reasoning, as is the case with this Article 38th, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. In addition to this amendment by the member of the law, where I have suggested that it be changed and that there is a "declaration and label issued by the farmer – the importer of the seed", I am just stating the reasons why abuse can occur, and according to a pattern of no other amendments, the government, or the resolution ministry, gives me an answer that is absolutely unacceptable, that this is the case in the Member States of the European Union, which is why you are giving me such an answer and you do not accept this amendment. While you are already calling for it, when you arrest and take General Lukic in pajamas and take him away, that is, kidnap and take him to The Hague, then be so capable, if you are not already able to rule, to explain, to meet the Performance Study, to Serbian peasants what awaits them by entering the European Union and what they will gain, and what they will lose. We also told you when some resolution here was on the agenda and that we are not against any integration processes, but not to the harm of Serbian citizens, and especially not to the harm of Serbian peasants. If this is what you want to protect monopolies and to have a negative impact on the production and distribution of seed goods, then you do not want Serbia's citizens well, and it is quite obvious. Be assured, and if you wanted to ask a little about it and to study it, in Italy which was once our neighbouring country, the seed goods and the export, the processing and transport of seed goods are the order of the most protected businesses by their government because of the fact that they protect their interest and production that they create in the regions and exports, which are in much greater scope than we do. When our college experts are so-called Serbia's agro-communities went to certain fair events, and one of them was Fiera agricola, which is held every March in Italy, faced the fact that they do not actually have the possibility of being helped by the state. They've got everything. They have the necessary equipment, they have the will, they don't have the incentive of the state, they don't have the right loans, they could export. But in this way, you want to stall and tell the manufacturer, that everything has to be under the hands of an irresponsible minister, or government that doesn't care about farmers, and it could be different, and it will be, because someone keeps time, time, soon at a time in which Serbian radicals will rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14041	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14042	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here are the members and amendments that reveal the background and essence. In article 38, he said -- the label is issued by a professional organisation authorised by the minister. Knowing the minister, knowing that several hundred thousand tonnes of soybean soybeans were genetically modified soybeans imported, knowing that she had not protected, and had been obliged to protect, agricultural producers who were dealing with the production of tobacco in the neighbourhood, but had allowed Philip Morris to bring seeds that infected two-thirds of the agricultural land below, knowing that Mrs Dulic and her family were holding at least a third of the Sudotica in their hands, knowing that she would also determine the organisation that, as she said in the article, would issue a label, a professional organisation that would issue the label, knowing that and knowing the Minister's wife, knowing that all this had its monetary weight, not to say a commission, not to say the commission, not to say the corpusion, we have submitted, the MP Ms. Natasa Jovanovic had submitted the amendment to this regulation. This means that whoever produces seeds, who prepares seeds for sale, and who issues the declaration and who is responsible for the quality of the seed, is responsible for any damage caused by non-quality seed, etc. There's no trust in the minister. The SRS MPs have no confidence in the minister's honesty, and you know for a fact that the other day they said that we have 44% of the total number of votes that can be won, and that means 45% of Serbian citizens through their MPs today show mistrust with Minister Dulic. Soon, however, we will also talk about Minister Dulic and the other ministers, and "ministers", as you have the custom of saying under quotes, and then we will do a little differently to cross the political scene of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14043	The word has been made by Ambassador Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since we are already at the end of the amendment, as my distinguished colleague and radical Natasa Jovanovic said, but we have reached that most important member 38, which is said to be the label issued by the minister's expert organisation. This really shows that the essence of this law is to keep everything in the hands of the minister. I will quote what the respected academic, Professor Dragan Škorić, said on the Committee on Agriculture, and you gentlemen who are members of the Committee I think you will remember. "If such a bill is adopted in this year, unwanted conditions for scientific institutions in our country will be created." Those are the words of academic professor Dragan Skoric. Then "this bill takes over all power from the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry." This is his original signature. Then, "where is home science, professional organisations, expert technical commissions and a number of other auxiliary bodies". He wants the academic professor to say -- where our domestic science, which was up until a year ago, was at the top of the world and of Europe, where professional organisations are, where there are expert technical commissions and a series of other auxiliary bodies. If we want, gentlemen, to get close to the EU, according to academics Professor Skoric, then it should be done in an adequate way, it should be fully handled by what the countries that have recently joined the EU have done. But, gentlemen, with this and this law, without amendments to the SRS, it seems to me that we will not enter the EU, especially Article 38, where it is the minister who determines who will print the labels. Gentlemen, do you know how many agricultural tags, i.e. small and large seeds, printed in this Serbia. It's millions, millions of dinars. Isn't it more logical that instead of this first position in Article 38 – "the label issued by the professional organisation authorised by the minister" the text comes – "the declaration and label of the grower, the importer of the seed. "Is there nothing more logical in this article 38? Why give importance to the Minister and make it the one who decides on the label i.e. a professional organisation to be authorised. Please pay attention to this law, this bill of seed requires the thinking of all of us, especially all of you who are in this DOS majority. In the voting day, vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14045	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Gordana Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40. Proposal for a seed law. In point 2, the word "minister" is replaced by the words "bringer of the right to protect the variety", and the word "minister" is replaced by the words "bringer of the right to protect the variety". We believe that the consent to repack and measure the original packaging of seeds should not be given by the Ministry, but by the holder of the right to protect the variety, because this is about its primary interest. In the opinion of the SRS, the authority on the repacking of seeds should take over the institutions, i.e. bearers of the right to protect the variety, and all in order to avoid possible malversions in relation to the quality of the seed. In practice, there were many abuses by the Ministry, as was the case in relation to imports of genetically modified soybeans, so the producers destroyed huge land areas that were sown by genetically modified soybeans. The damage has never been compensated and the health of cattle and humans has been questioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14047	The word has an MP named Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14048	The amendment by Parliament's Gordana Gajic says the word "ministration" is replaced by the words "holder of the right to protect the variety". We explain that we believe that the consent to repack and measure the original packaging of seeds should not be given by the Ministry, but by the holder of the right to protect the variety, because this is about its primary outcome. What's weird about that? Previously, amendments were rejected where the state should have a responsibility, where the minister can and should have a responsibility, and where you can figure something out, something to steal, or anything, that's where the ministry is forced. I have to say, that's what we're really surprised about. I understand your needs. When you read that something can be repacked or measured, you emotionally shake, your eyes wait, your hands sweat, that sign of "s" with two arrows appears. That's not how you can do it. You've had enough of the banks you've destroyed, insurance, JAT, the power you've stolen, leave the farm alone or deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14049	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Chapter VII of this bill regulates the transport of seeds to members 41, 42, and 43. Article 41 regulates the conditions relating to the professional provision of employees in transport organisations, means in companies carrying out the traffic of seed goods on a large and small scale. Article 42 regulates which seed goods can be sold, means registered seed goods. Article 43 regulates the conditions for selling facilities through which the sale of seed goods to large and small is carried out, and paragraph 3 provides for the minister to determine the conditions for the traffic of goods to a large and small extent. The SRS amendment to Article 41 adds Article 4 which provides that the competent Ministry of Agriculture shall adopt a solution laying down the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the operations of the transport of seed goods to a large and small extent. This attitude improves the text of the law itself, as the competent ministry is asked to determine whether these three groups of conditions have been met so that a company can deal with the traffic of seed goods on a large and small scale: as regards the qualifications of the people involved in the business, in relation to the seed goods sold and in relation to the area in which the sale is carried out. We believe that this amendment is very useful and that it improves the text of the law itself, and it is related to inspection supervision that regulates members from 94 to 99, because inspectors who carry out surveillance tasks are the easiest if there is a solution that determines the fulfilment of the conditions for the transport of seed goods. This solution determines that the necessary conditions are met, and an inspector who performs surveillance tasks in the easiest way could, already on the basis of this solution, determine whether a company or undertaking still fulfils the conditions to deal with the traffic of seed goods. What is symptomatic, both in this bill and in the debate on it, as with the bill's previous proposal, is that the proposing representatives, on the previous point, are Minister Dinkic, and for this point is Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, avoiding the debate over the bill, giving a political speech full of hate, picking up and leaving, and are no longer interested in the fate of the law. Whether this is an accident or not, both ministers belong to one political party under code G17 plus, and I do not believe in coincidences, and I do not think it is an accident that both ministers are from this very party and are acting in such a manner as they behave, not respecting this highest house, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are being extremely arrogant and irresponsible to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14051	I thank you, the word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14052	Who insults the MPs, who insults the citizens of Serbia, does not deserve different comments, as is the case with this woman who is the minister of agriculture. Tell her, when she's done with the peaches, let her read bostan. Today, a motion has been tabled for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. You're probably also aware that this has become unsustainable. I'd go back to this amendment, so I wouldn't get a warning. Mr. Milajic has submitted an amendment requiring that Article 4 be added after Article 3, and that is consistent with the following logic of the article you wrote. If you have prescribed the conditions for the transport of seed material to large and small, it is perfectly normal, it is expected to be prescribed in the following attitude which determines the fulfilment of the conditions. That's what you're running from. You don't want to. I need to expand this a little bit and show you that the whole article in 41 is bad. In Article 41, you wrote: "Second transport can deal with a company, i.e. a company, another legal person and entrepreneur, which is registered in the Register". A software company is also registered in the Registry, but cannot deal with the transport of seed material. Logic is enrolment in the Register and registration of that activity. I guess that's the logic, but experts ate a few words, so this doesn't make any sense. By the way you wrote it, anyone who's registered in the Registry can do this job. That's not true. It must have entered that operational code and must meet the minimum technical requirements in order to deal with this activity. Because of this erroneous logic and these two attitudes that follow that logic, so you wrote which conditions must be met in terms of the minimum school preparation of the person in that society that deals with traffic on a large scale - that he has a agricultural college, and if he deals with traffic on a small scale, he has to have a fourth degree, which means he has to be a agricultural technician. If you think that's a condition, applying the logic used in the traffic of poisons, herbicides, etc., we can accept that, but let's say, in the attitude we're asking for to be written, that the fulfillment of the catches is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture. If this member remains as you suggested, it will be as if traffic is being carried out in a store, and inspection supervision finds it to be an ordinary trader who does not have a fourth degree agricultural profession, which is prescribed in paragraph 3. Then what's going on? How did that happen? Who's responsible? You'll punish the company. Yeah, but the traffic was done. If you believe that the school prepares a minimum condition to carry out the traffic in a facility, by logic of the matter, it follows the 4th position that Mr Milajić has proposed. But you won't. Now I'd like to start some practice. It leaves this division of companies to who deals with traffic on a large scale and who traffics on a small scale. That's the rest of the socialist period, so the retail trade has retail facilities, and the wholesale has big stores where they share small merchants, etc. There are other forms of trade developing more and more, but you're far from it. You don't know what that means yet. If you have already accepted this, then you must accept the proposed position of Article 41, because without an attitude of Article 4, this article does not make any sense. You have to know in the traffic of a little bit that the traffic of this material is being carried out in those areas where there is a need, which are agricultural combinations, our peasants, because I guess the goods should be as close to who should be sown. Think about some village where there's a agricultural cooperative, as we say, or some other facility to traffic this stuff for a little bit. Whether they can meet these conditions and what will happen if you inspectors subsequently determine that there, for example, two years a man works and some possible disputes occur, that he did not know that he was decrypting the label, the declaration, etc. So the peasant asked him for one seed, and he gave him another. If you already want your second and third position to remain, then it is necessary to provide for attitude 4, and since you warn me on time, I will again report to you on the bulky powers of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14053	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Srboljub Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I absolutely support Dr. Zoran Mašić's proposal to Article 72, paragraph 2 - that the examination of the variety on the field of vision takes three years, as has been so far, not two, which is proposed by this law. This is because in two years it cannot determine the value of a new seed variety, in order to produce a quality product, because both years can be dry, both rainy, both normal. So it takes a difference in age to determine the quality of the seed. What's been going on over the years? On agricultural land in southern Banat, in the municipality of Kovin, hundreds of hectares are planted with corn, corn seed from Zemun field. The quality of the seed was bad, so there was enormous damage. The procedure has been under way for five years, and so far it has not been resolved. Madam Minister, unfortunately not here today, has promised that these damages will be compensated, but to this day it has not been done. I don't know how this member is going to get quality, otherwise we've been considering this proposal on the Agriculture Committee and we've come to the conclusion that this amendment should be accepted and we absolutely support Dr Zoran Mašić's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14055	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14056	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important member who regulates the issue of the separation process. In our current law, we have had a situation where this procedure lasts for three years. This law proposes that it be two, given that the DUS test and results were introduced after two years, when compared with the standard variety, with which it is compared, are sufficient to establish that the variety that is in the process of recognising sorates is really better than the standard. That's what matters. I think the extension of that deadline, in the current conditions, would lead our institutes to a more unfavourable situation because it reduces one year of commercialisation of new varieties on our market, and of course on foreign markets, and I think that a legal solution has been offered well, because it allows them to go on the market a year earlier and commercialise their scientific work and their scientific achievements for a variety that has proved to be better than standard in two years. So I think this legal solution is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14057	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) It was submitted to Article 84 of the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 84, and my wish was to free the minister, so that he has more time to deal with certain other matters, or that he does not have to register the register of varieties that are recognised in relation to the varieties that need to be deleted from the register. I believe that this problem should be solved by the Ministry through the "Official Messenger" or by some specifically authorised means of information, or by the Internet, so that people who deal with this profession can at any time afford certain information and see which varieties are current, or who are no longer. That is the comment of this amendment on Article 84. It means that all the powers given to the minister are transferred to the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, since it probably has elaborated technology. And it could happen at some point in time that there's a conflict of interest. For example, if the minister, and we know that mostly the people of these branches and these professions can also be engaged in producing quality seeds, he would not have to sign for himself or write off some varieties that are recognised, or varieties that should be deleted from the register. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-06-0.u14059	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Ivan Radic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to article 105 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. I'm finalizing a review of the proposal in detail. Since we have carried out a law search in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality. The session is due Tuesday at 10 pm.
