ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17474	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Natasa Micic and Savo Urosevic. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 29th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Taxation Act on the Addendum of Value (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Momir Marković, Dragan Rafaelović, Vjerica Radeta, Sanja Ceković, Hranislav Perić, Milovan Radovanović, together Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic, Snezana Lakićićić-Stojačić, Vojislav Milajić, Vitomir Milosevic, Petar Jojić, Branislav Rankić, Veroljub Arsić and Zoran Krasic, as well as the Finance Committee. National MP Dragan Rafaelovic withdrew the amendment, with a correction, which he submitted to Article 3. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as opinions from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17475	Ladies and gentlemen, in all normal countries, the existence of value added tax laws implies a regulated financial market, starting with law making, a reduction in the prices of certain products. When it comes to the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, then by law on value added tax, we have a completely different picture than it is in the world. No matter how many representatives of the government claim that we are wrong when we say this, all Serbian citizens know that we are. It's unacceptable not to have the finance minister sitting here today. Today we are talking about amendments to a group of laws that are very important for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia individually. It's very important because these laws, by applying these laws, puts the hand of the citizens in the pocket. Of course, Minister Dinkic is unable to bear and hear everything we Serbian radicals are going to tell him about these laws. He's not able to be here, to explain all the lies he's telling these days, not just these days, but whenever he's talking about the VAT law. It tells Serbian citizens that by applying the value added tax, all minors in Serbia have been cheaped, and citizens know very well that from the application of this law there has been an increase in tax rates, as the 18% tax, the value added tax, has not been in line with the existing taxes, but has been added to those existing taxes. Of course, that's not what the law says. It is someone who has abused it, but I guess the Ministry has an instrument to prevent that from happening on the ground. All citizens know that from the moment this law was passed, all products have been collected by 18%. Nowhere has something happened where the tax was 20%, to decrease by 2%, because VAT is 18%. No, but VAT was added to those, at the time, existing taxes. Then the minister in the media tells us that he's just waiting to cut the VAT rate to this or that, and then he's gonna make everything cheap, and he's gonna fuel up cheap. What do we have in the field? What do we have in life? It's costing fuel, electricity, meat, everything citizens buy in stores, but it's costing raspberries, wheat; what the state needs to pay, it's lost any price, any value. The farmers will definitely be brought to the beggar stick this year. Mladjan Dinkic and the Serbian government hit them with their instruments, em in every part of Serbia happens, every other day, the weather. But instead of the Serbian government having that in mind, to try to help the villagers, what God has given and destroyed. Of course, no one's thinking about it. We don't, says Ivana Dulic-Markovic, the law on the declaration of a natural disaster, but we have a team there, the Commission for Essential Accidents. The Commission is likely to receive compensation for its work, but I just don't know what it's formed on, which is why it works if there's no law to declare natural disasters. So, ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially this one group of ministers from one party, are really making fools of both this people and this parliament. We Serbian radicals can't allow it and we won't allow it. That's why we're talking about every amendment, and that's why we're submitting amendments to these laws. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax. This Article 3 refers to Article 6 of the Basic Law. The amendment refers to paragraph 3. That position, according to the amended text, that is to say, according to the amendments to this law: that the minister is closer to regulating the procedure for the replacement of goods within a guaranteed period, which is considered to be a transfer of the total, or part of the assets, with or without compensation, or as a bet referred to in point 1 of Article 1, as well as what is considered to be the usual quantities of business samples and a gift of less value as set out in points 1 and 4 of Article 1. The amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group reads: "The competent ministry is closer to regulating the procedure for the replacement of goods within the guaranteed deadline, what is considered to be a transfer of the total or part of the assets, whether or not a fee, or as a deposit, referred to in point 1) of Article 1(1), as well as what is considered to be the usual amounts of business samples and a gift of less value referred to in Article 1(3) and (4) of this Act". Why this amendment? We have submitted amendments in all the laws that gave powers to ministers, according to us, unacceptable, and instead of ministers, we have put certain jobs in the power of the ministry. Because the laws that the government is proposing to us, ministers are given really too much authority, given so much responsibility that if they really wanted to do their job seriously, they wouldn't be able to do it. Imagine us trusting Mladjan Dinkic that he edits the process of replacing goods within the guaranteed deadline, that he determines what is considered to be the usual amounts of business samples and gifts of less value, etc. Indeed, we would not accept such a thing even if it were a minister, in whom Serbian radicals have confidence. When it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, then there is no way we can accept him getting this kind of authority by law. In general, you will see and hear in the course of today's debate what is all about this VAT law, the amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, which is so much talked about by the finance minister, as if now something epochal should be passed, as if everyone would now start to live better after this law, and will increase wages, pensions, reduce unemployment. Of course, everything will be the opposite. It will be all the opposite because there will be a reunion again, because citizens will again feel how the application of this law works in the realisation of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. As I said at the outset, everywhere in the world, this law is really done in the right way. There needs to be such a law, but not to regulate things the way Mladjan Dinkic represents it and not to give himself the powers that are laid down in this law. That's why I invite you, since Mladjan Dinkic is not here, to face us and to hear what he thinks about our amendments, of course, he doesn't care. He knows that he is able to make a congregation majority, that every law of his must be passed. The MPs, when we speak to them individually, are absolutely against some legal solutions, but what people are going to do, they have to respect party discipline. At the top of the parties that make up power, no one can think of giving up Mladjan Dinkic, because that would mean that they must give up their own chair. So, the government shows from day to day that it does not exist in the interests of Serbian citizens, that it is the government in the personal interests of individuals, and that is why I call on you colleagues when it comes to the law on value added tax to seriously consider amendments to the SRS, to adopt them. You will see that through some legal solutions Mladjan Dinkic adopted our amendments – later, not at a time when we proposed them as amendments, but when he realized that it was necessary through the application of the law. It will also happen after this law, we will have another amendment and supplement, if you do not accept our amendments, and therefore we recommend you to consider, accept our amendments, and Mladjan Dinkic will be angry, none of this will be yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17476	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17477	Just in the course of the time left for this amendment, I would like to point out on behalf of the SRS a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure, carried out by Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly yesterday at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly. Just to remind you that on Thursday, Mr. Markovic announced that Monday the issue of what happened in London would be resolved. By the logic of the matter, that question was meant to be resolved with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. He didn't do it, but yesterday before the quorum was determined in a unique way, knowing that SRS MPs were entering the hall when the quorum was just provided, he brutally misused his authority as president of the National Assembly and allowed various journalists to draw various conclusions and insinuate on the account of the SRS. Since there is no excuse, because he violated the provision of Article 28 above all. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that he is the first among the equals and that he communicates and co-operates with parliamentary groups and negotiates as often as he has agreed, abused it harshly yesterday. Since we cannot be satisfied with the answer (because the answer simply cannot be given), I demand that this be voted on in the voting day as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, done by Predrag Markovic. For the purposes of this amendment relating to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxation, I would only point to that amendment concerning the final position of Article 6 that the minister is closer to prescribing the procedure for the replacement of goods within a guaranteed period of time. How can the minister prescribe a procedure for replacing goods within a guaranteed time limit? We don't need the law on bond relations, we don't need anything else, it's enough for Mladjan Dinkic to sit down and he prescribes how to change, how to replace things within the guaranteed deadline. They do not need provisions on hidden shortcomings or material shortages of things, only Mladjan Dinkic is enough. What he could have prescribed if he had no idea what a bonding relationship law was, what a guaranteed deadline, when it comes to goods trafficking, what he could have prescribed, except probably some abuse in favour of his own interest group. Something like this can't stand in the law. (As I convinced you yesterday that it cannot stand in one law will apply English legislation. This can't even stand in this law. I'm simply expressing dissatisfaction. Is it possible that the Republic Legislative Secretariat allows such things to go through regulations and especially through these regulations in the area of finance and economy, where Mladjan Dinkic is carrying out his own will? This can't be in the law. What is thought to be the transfer of all or part of the property with or without compensation? Please, there are so many regulations that regulate, if it's property that, where property is determined by the share or participation of an individual in the entire property. Why would Mladjan Dinkic now prescribe something special? Who is he that specifically prescribes and derogates other laws? Can someone on the basis of this kind of authority change the law and the Constitution by sublaw? He can't. You know, if this amendment of the Prophet of the Witch of Radet is not passed, then you all said to one, "Younger, do whatever you want."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17478	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP VeroljubArsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17479	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 8. The draft law, i.e. on Article 23 of the Basic Law on value added tax, regulates a special rate of value added tax. At that special rate of value added tax, there is a list of goods and services which were almost never taxed until October 5th, or the taxes paid for the goods and services were more than symbolic. The Minister of Finance's argument that certain products must be charged with value added tax, because if tax is not charged, there is no possibility of refaction, or more tax paid, so it is left as some calculation so that users of these goods and services can, through a lower tax rate, make tax refaction, or make a profit through refaction. However, this cannot be done with a tax rate of 8%. In order to keep that rule in value added tax, which is used everywhere in the world, that goods not charged with value added tax are not subject to more tax refaction, I have submitted an amendment and I asked that the tax rate of 8% be reduced to 1%. There is no reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government's authorised representative do not accept it, as Mr. Minister said, he would be very happy to release these value added tax items, but simply there is no mechanism to refuse more tax. It does not have to release them, the citizens of Serbia will be satisfied if it is 1% instead of 8%. What's that about that special tax rate? Bread and baker's products, milk and milk products, flour, sugar, edible oil, of sunflower, corn, rape oil, soybeans and olives, edible fats of animal and vegetable origin and honey. So basic life supplies, something that doesn't represent the luxury of citizens, something that is necessary, because for a man to live, he has to use life supplies. We, i.e. this assembly majority, have introduced VAT, and before Božidar Djelic with our reforms on the tax system, we have begun to tax basic life supplies. Now we've come to this point that even though there's enough of it, there's no one to buy it, there's no one, so there's no order. Less produced than the 1990s, less spent than the 1990s, there are fewer people who can buy basic life supplies, and one reason is VAT. Next, drinking water, except bottled, okay, let's take that except bottled water, but since when was the water tax paid? Will the tax collectors have to jump out of the well when someone decides to hit the water with a simple glass? Moving on, the grains of sunflowers, soybeans, sugar tails and oil tails are basic agricultural products. One part is used as industrial raw materials, and one part is used in agriculture as food for animals and you have introduced VAT. Further, medications, including veterinary medicines. As far as it was known by October 5th, no drug was taxed, no drug tax was charged, because someone was not being treated, because he wanted to, but because he was sick. You don't buy drugs because of luxury, it's not jewelry, it's not pumpkins, it's not necklaces, it's the need for someone to be cured. Some people need to survive. Let's not talk about what's going on with the positive, or negative drug lists now, about how certain importers are favored, how individual producers are favored, etc. Orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means of products. So not spreading the drug story, that's quite enough said. Furthermore, dialysis materials, are there enough kidney donors in Serbia that we can freely tax dialysis material with 8%? Now one part that I like, especially as is the Minister of Agriculture's resolution from a coded political party, so it's said, fertilizers, plant protection, seed reproduction, fruit material, complete bloodstains for the feeding of live cattle. There is now an extremely interesting part of how Mr. Dinkic imagined to release, i.e. to oblige agricultural producers to participate in the VAT system, i.e. in the value added tax system and how to use their specific rights given to them by this law in order to be an agricultural producer in the VAT system, has to be registered as an entrepreneur, to run business books, to pay the accountant, to work through accounts, to sell his goods from the account and to obtain his re-promatter through an account. Now, I ask you (who voted for this law and who will vote against this amendment), what will the agricultural cooperatives do to us, what are they doing, what is their purpose, are we going to sell them? Can't they do that instead of farmers? I can't, because the government's goal is to tax everything that can be taxed and agricultural properties that have four or five hectares. They're mostly nursing households, they don't have the right to refect value added tax, because with four or five hectares of arable land they can't pay the accountant, they can't do business over an account, they can't ask for more tax refaction. I can't, therefore, get fertilizer, plant protection, reproductive seed, fruit material and get rid of VAT. I can't, because they have other expenses, they can't cover the costs of keeping books -- business, as Mr. Minister likes to say. Now the question is, how do we protect our farmers and our goods by the customs rates that will soon be on the agenda? Why are subsidies from the Government of the Republic of Serbia not bigger than they are now? Because it's a permanent excuse they don't give us from the EU to increase subsidies and that's not true. They made a recommendation, not a ban on not increasing subsidies. The wheat harvest has begun. Do you know what the price is? You don't know. What's the VAT going to be? And that's probably what Dinkic's gonna do as he's fit to fill his budget. You have introduced a tax on something that has never been taxed, which is not in any serious country that is agriculturalally agrarian, and Serbia is a agricultural agricultural agrarian state. You may get carried away that we're something else, but we are who we are. You don't have a serious plan and strategy what you're going to do with agriculture, what you're going to do with these crummy farming households, how you're going to solve these problems. You don't do this strategy, you don't deal with how you're going to develop the agricultural industry, where you're going to find markets, which are your business partners, what you can do quality, not genetically modified soy to import from the West, and that's not what you do. You're dealing with taxes on how you'll take taxes from the peasants, in every way possible. So, you want a refaction of a more paid VAT, okay, but you have to register as an entrepreneur, pay income tax, tax on sales of various goods and services, pay bank expenses, pay the accountant. Can someone with four or five acres, with one or two cows and four or five pigs? He can't, what are we gonna do with these people, kill them, so someone's plan can come true? You have introduced a tax on textbooks and teaching tools, heating wood, etc. On textbooks, and I guess basic school education is necessary to everyone, to every child. Every parent's goal is to educate their child, the goal of every country is to have educated and smart people who are going to run this country tomorrow, and you're introducing VAT to the bumblebees, shame!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17480	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17481	With this amendment, MP Radovanovic asked that Article 9(2) be deleted, which refers to an intervention covered by Article 24. The law. It is a provision that value added tax is not paid. New point 6a within the scope of Article 1. – the dispatch of goods to free customs shops, the dispatch to airfields opened for international traffic on which passport and customs controls have been organised for sale to passengers in accordance with customs regulations, as well as the delivery of goods from free customs shops. We've submitted this amendment for one simple reason why they're bad experience with those shops. Whether these shops are located in airports, ports or border crossings of road traffic (because the paperwork is being prepared), a large quantity of these goods is found on the black market. You're guessing which goods it's about. It is primarily about cigarettes, alcohol, perfumery, so why not tell some technical devices, (where if a suitable exception is made to the rule somewhere then by the logic of things, every exception intends to become a rule and then it goes without any possibility of stopping it). However, in order to understand the complete dimension of what was proposed to change in this value added tax law, I must say, in essence, this law is very bad. We at the federal level had a far better quality tax law on added value. However, Mladjan Dinkic and Labus never gave the law a chance, although the law was formally in force during a period of time. Although it was federal regulations, it had to be applied. They deliberately put it to death so that their law on value added tax would appear to be in order in combination with their seeing fiscal registers and other things they are innovating. This law is practically impossible to fix because it has quite an error. However, since we are talking about these shortcomings of the law, I would only draw your attention to the misusing of the term in this law, which causes the need to constantly give some interpretations and opinions. Then when the need for interpretation and opinion arises, you can assume what it looks like in this personal composition of the Ministry of Finance. Then everything and everything is interpreted because of the article 4. The draft law on amendments and additions to this law would really ask the motioner why he has now thrown out in the tax payer's definition – or imports of goods. When the law was passed, we talked about that if someone does goods, he does it in the country, and he can do it abroad. There's no need to specifically potentiate imports. Finally, they realized it and in that part they made a change, although it remains unclear whether they were in those positions or whether the importers wanted to see differently. Under this law, another termological confusion has gone through quite modestly. It relates first of all to what is stated in Article 1. The proposal for this law, as considered by the transport of goods, has added a new point 7a – the first transfer of ownership stakes to newly built construction buildings or economically divided continents within these facilities. In Article 8. The proposal is also being amended when it comes to a lower and special tax rate of 8%. A new point 14 is added, which says - transfer of the right of disposal on residential buildings, as well as ownership stakes on these facilities. What is mentioned in Article 1 seems much broader. This is where it goes into the property rights of individuals, natural and legal persons. Here it's concrete when it comes to housing when it's first sold and probably the second time it's subject to a tax on the transfer of absolute rights where the rate is far lower, it's not 8% but 5%. What complains is – if the right of ownership of a residential property before the end of the five-year period from the date of acquisition of the right of disposal or ownership, change the purpose of the residential facility, it is required to pay the difference of VAT between the general rate and the special VAT rate. Why is the facility being treated on purpose? If someone changes the purpose of the facility to the municipalities to complete the job, it must be given the appropriate solution of the local self-government competent authority which approves that the housing is converted into a business facility. There is a obligation to pay some compensation and a procedure is carried out. Why would that be within five years? Why isn't it six years? If someone thinks they're going to stop whoever bought the facility, buy a housing unit, don't change the purpose of the facility by prescribing this obligation to pay 10% more expensive value added tax, it's practically discrimination against people and property. Something like that isn't possible. The newly built facility, the first sale is known, goes this tax and each next sale goes tax on the transfer of absolute rights. It doesn't make any sense now to insert a provision on whether or not the object's purpose is to live, whether it's a business activity or something else. If this is how it's interpreted, then I'm right to ask why you're not maintaining the facility. If you interfere in the purpose of an object, and when you interfere in the purpose of an object, you define to me how I will use the object. Then get involved in the investment maintenance of my facility, if you have this tendency to master this kind of socialism where people and individuals don't know what's good for him, but someone who thinks on his behalf is needed. The basic problem with this law and all these laws that come from the Ministry of Finance is that there is no ideological concept. On the side, is this concept good or bad, whether it's acceptable for someone or not, this idea is going through everything that you're changing, to see the way you're moving. It's going around here on a flat-rate basis, someone figured out that's where the money is, so pick it up if you can get out of there. In two days, it looks like the money's there, changing regulations and picking something up there. If it's ideology -- where's the money to collect, I admit it, but say ideology -- where's the money that the finance ministry is going with sacks to collect. I can accept that, too. Most people will probably accept that, but tell them it's our ideology. This is how you talk about some principles, market affirmation, market economy, private property of sacredness, freedom of business, free market competition, how nice that sounds. When you comb your laws, it doesn't even exist as a dead letter on paper. Of course, after Dinkic's punishment to run financials, he must normally return to normal everything he ruined in a year and a half, and he didn't find it very difficult to ruin much because even the predecessor was no better. It comes from the same mental set and understanding of economy and public finances. There's no principle of difference. There's only a difference in the differences of ignorance. It can't be done like this. You will also see about the next amendments, which are serious shortcomings and serious objections. Please, someone imagined that there would be 18% of the total value added tax rate and now they're boasting about the surplus, and the poor guy doesn't know that the surplus can't be in half, but only at the end of the year can it be shown. We'll talk about it at the rebalance. A man knows nothing, and you trust him. Don't make me believe the ignorant, I don't want to believe the ignorant.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17482	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm in a position to even explain this amendment of mine. There are 40 MPs present in the hall and Predrag Markovic has managed to build a local community out of the assembly. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and that point 4a), 4b and 4c are entered after point 4a), which reads – 4a) to exempt VAT from the purchase of agricultural machinery, as well as spare parts; 4b) the purchase of raw materials for the production of agricultural production; 4c) the sale of agricultural products of domestic origin by the manufacturer. The proposer of this law does not accept this amendment. Minister Dinkic explains this, if this amendment is accepted, there is no one to fill the budget, which translates into it, it is again farmers who are obliged to fill the budget without having the right to take it out of the budget, because that right belongs to those who do not participate in the budget. Are you wondering, Mr. Minister, can this intruder of yours be sustained by agricultural producers? How long will the burden of the state on their backs be worn by manufacturers? These days in southern Serbia, a harvest of cherries has been completed. The ransom price was 14 dinars. The pickers charged the harvest between 7 and 8 dinars, and 30 per cent of the producers did not read the cherry, because if they did, they are making an even bigger loss. Where were you then to help? At the time of sanctions with the help of the state, cherry was one brand per kilogram. Where do farmers get money now that when they buy agricultural machines for the processing of cherry, they pay value added tax? Mr. Minister, why don't you look for money on the other side - from new businessmen who have wrongly made a fortune from selling businesses. You sell everything, and there's no money anywhere. Every time he needs money, let's put another load on the peasants. What did you do to cut the funding for the expensive state apparatus? How many people have been employed in the state administration since you've been in power? How many workers have been admitted by local administrations since the last local elections? Who's gonna pay for that? And 50% that VAT is on agricultural products and machinery, cannot be paid just wages for newly formed jobs. I don't believe there's a member of the G17 plus party that he's not employed by the local administration, agencies, banks, savings, etc. It turns out, as many members as the employees. This way we won't get far. Why did I ask the VAT to be released from the farmers? The reason is that we would improve agricultural production, because we know that we are doing it, and we can export and increase exports. I don't see what else we can export except agricultural products and mineral wealth. Someone here at the pay phone said that farmers get loans. That's not true. For the past year, the minister approved 300 loans, but they are not yet realised, waiting for order. What's the interest on the loans? How much did the Ministry of Agriculture make the harvest work? Why wasn't the harvest fuel provided? What's the price of the harvest fuel? You come out here for a pay phone and talk about the development of agriculture. I wonder how long you're going to cheat on peasants? Everyone's helping us, and everything's worse than it was before. If the ministers were shot by some chance, the Minister of Agriculture would lose his head for free. Minister Dulic understands everything, but he knows nothing about agriculture. That's why the government needs to change the agriculture minister immediately and find some expert who understands the area. If the government doesn't, I don't believe any of the farmers will vote for the DSS and the G17. In the end, when votes on my amendment, we will see which parties will vote to help farmers, who only talk and court farmers in the campaign. When the laws were passed, they would take everything from the farmers and skin him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17484	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Mika Vlaović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was not the best thing to do in writing this amendment, and the finance minister didn't do it very well. An explanation is given, if the VAT is removed, who's going to charge the budget? There are a million more ways to fill the budget. I know it can't be tax-free. It's a good thing there's a tax on some basic agricultural products down to eight percent. However, it is not good that there is 18% left on agricultural machinery. And under Customs law customs duties are also paid on imports of agricultural machinery. Farmers of import agricultural machinery and pay customs duty 10%, and taxi drivers can import an expensive car for 100,000 euros and do not pay sales taxes – it is said that is to carry out their work. I wonder if farmers could have been released from customs on that import. They could've done it for sure. It was certainly possible to reduce value added tax in the purchase of agricultural machinery and machinery. That part of the funds could have been taken elsewhere. I fully agree that the tax on new apartments has been reduced, i.e. from 18% to 8%. However, there could be one selection - someone who first bought an apartment and did not buy apartments should have been the 8% tax. However, I know some people in Novi Sad who buy a dozen apartments, who buy the whole building. I know a man who's a refugee from Croatia who bought the whole building and rents it out. Is he supposed to pay 8%? If he paid 18%, there would be 20 tractors left to buy. At this point, the peas cannot be corrected, but the minister can bring about a change very quickly and remove VAT and agricultural machinery, because all agricultural machinery is almost full-time and may be older than farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17486	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17487	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment regarding sports. It rarely happens that our country hosts major world and European championships. Get organized large competitions, especially in first category sports, such as in our country basketball, volleyball, water polo, football, represents a huge national interest and outstanding importance for the country. All these manifestations are also burdened by VAT. Now we've met up with serious problems about the World League organization. In front of us are the European basketball championship, the European volleyball championship. We believe that point 19a should be added after point 19a, which provides that the organizers of the biggest competitions, exclusively in first-class sports, those in which our country is the most famous, most recognizable, such as basketball, volleyball, water polo, football, should be exempt from the obligation to pay VAT. It's really a top-notch national interest. It's a great privilege to win a big competition. Thus, sports alliances or persons who organise these great sports competitions, in some ways, should be stimulated and allowed to prepare and perform such a large organization in a easier way. In the context of the World League volleyball, which you saw yourself, the other day gathered more than 18,000 viewers in the Arena was a first-class event. The state intervened and helped, according to its capabilities, but only in the extent that the VAT was used to organise these competitions. In fact, direct assistance to organise something that is so important for a country that needs a positive sign, a positive identity in Europe and the world, is not enough. That's why we don't think this would be too much of a budget strike. In order to show good will for the most successful product back decades, to show the good will of those who have been through all the crisis that we have been able to survive and be something that, with a few other things, we can be proud of, I propose to the Members of the People to consider this amendment. Also, I suggest that the ministry look at the amendment, because I think that, with attitude 2, in which we have predicted that the minister is closer to regulating the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to the tax exemption, there could also be no abuse. The state would recognize the interest of such important world events being held in our country and thus help them. After all, to make it easier for citizens to come to events that we are all interested in watching live, not just on small screens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17488	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17489	To avoid confusion in the public, we did not ask for the entire article to be deleted, but only one part of that member. Since we support this intervention, "the VAT is not paid on imports of goods that are linked to the grant contract, i.e. as humanitarian aid", then "which are exported, which are returned to the Republic unsold" etc. So, for these changes, we did not intervene with the amendment, we only intervened on this change concerning the import of goods that are imported into free customs stores under the customs procedure. Since this amendment forms part of a single continent of the previous amendment that we have explained, which also concerns these free customs shops at airports, within Article 24, here the Government has taken a position and is responding to this amendment, that it is not accepted for the same reasons as the amendment to Article 9. They say, "The amendment is not accepted," they explain. The end of this argument is significant and says: "as well as in the delivery of goods from free customs stores, the VAT law is in line with EU customs law and standards". I don't know what the VAT law has to do with customs law. Customs law treats a second burden called customs. VAT and customs are budget revenues, but two separate revenues that have their logic, an independent logic. That's why one is called tax, and the other is called customs. I don't know what the argument on customs law is. It says "European Union standards". I don't know what standards it's about. In the case of customs standards, when the customs code was passed last year, about this time (or the amendment of that law at this time), it was said that all the provisions of that customs law are in line with the standards. In this country, for about 15 years, the process that someone now calls "harmonisation" with EU rules is taking place because we had different customs rates and different views and opportunities for access to markets. I don't know what kind of connection anyone's found for this. I have to inform the public – the SRS in this regulation argues that there is no tax exemption when it comes to free customs stores at airports, that does not mean that these stores should not exist. They will exist by adopting and not adopting this amendment. Here's just a question of the amount to buy the goods by. Regardless of tax release, I don't believe there can be such a drastic price difference, at least when it comes to, broaderly, this part of Europe. A big price difference can exist when it comes to Hong Kong, Japan and some other country or Arab world, but in our common areas, there is no greater difference in this territory. I don't know why there's a tax exemption here. The possibility of flying planes has a small number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're in a better economic position, able to pay. That farmer that he was talking about before, he never flew on a plane, and there's no need to fly on a plane. You didn't burden him. Why do you release those who have money? The proof that they have money is the fact that they're on a plane. It's completely reverse logic. Since it's, like, out there somewhere, let's grab the plug. Well, catch the connection with other standards. Catch the connection that someone can't just get kicked out of the state service, as some ministries do, and that law will come on the agenda. Catch the connection as provided pension and right to someone in Europe. Catch the connection that provides health care, catch the connection as private property is provided. Catch the connection with some other things everyone can benefit from. No, you only took what was useful to a small group of people who allegedly flew. I have to tell you, even these people who fly, they don't have much use for this customs store, they own a customs store. It would be hard for a stranger to run into us to buy something, to spend his foreign exchanges, when he can also buy it incomparably cheaper places there, somewhere else. So it's the owner. It's the one who organized the job, the one who owns the customs store, no matter what kind of property he's in, no matter what his name is. Those who work with him in commercial arrangements, go play, just drive the people crazy. That's why we're submitting the amendment. Have a free customs store at the airport. Whoever's using the airport, because he's flying, he's coming back, he can use those opportunities to buy the goods, because he's able to pay. But don't do that. Don't do that. Don't do that. It's not his product that's less expensive than some kind of free customs store. But you're changing the law to allow him to make money. So, you're not talking about tax in reasoning, you're saying -- that's the possibility given by customs law. Of course he's giving the customs law, no one's disputed not to give the customs law. No one has argued there should be, let there be. But why are you taxing him? What's so significant that you have to get rid of taxes? It's tax-free because it helps the sick, the disabled, the funds are being channeled, not, but it's filling its pocket. Don't ask us to take part in this. As you have seen, we have differentiatedly come to this amendment. To let you down, it is not only, but it is said: "It is deleted under 1v.". We don't touch this other thing. Why? We accept, because we had problems and other citizens had problems and other institutions had problems when the Value Added Tax Act came into force, that humanitarian aid and aid had to pay this tax at all. Now, after this, you won't be paid. That's what we support. From the beginning, we talked, we looked, we wrote. You remember when Tomislav Nikolic was at Kostunica's house about some help he was supposed to pass, and she was taxed. He said - I don't control it, although it should be taxed. There it is, it's here, it's being released in this part. But, 1v. And I'd like to ask you to accept that, because the law here is being illegally amended. It changes the law for someone to make money. And here we are told – European standards, new regulations, etc. Which is not true. So there's no problem in adopting this amendment. You can only benefit yourself. You MPs, I count on your benefit, the benefit of the people. The benefit will not have anyone come up with this system, where there are guaranteed revenues, where there is a monopoly, one free customs store, in one place, one is used and the VAT is released. There's no excuse when one never has an excuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17490	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Milic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vitomir Milosevic has submitted an amendment to Article 14 where, at the end of this article, the word "minister" is replaced by "ministration". If you followed, when we had laws like this before, where the minister appeared to arrange something closer, we were in favour of it, the MPs of the SRS, doing so by the ministry. For example, you see only this law. If you look at the following members – 31, 32, 33, etc. In most of these members, they end up saying that the minister will be closer to sorting out certain ways that something will be calculated, who will be released, how to assess and determine the level of taxes, etc. We believe that the minister, no matter how powerful he may be, can't do all this, because we've adopted so far, I haven't bothered to obtain accurate statistics, but make it 30 laws in the field of public finances. In those laws, at least 10 members are said to be told that the minister will more closely edit the matter handled by that member. Then we get into a situation where the minister of opportunity has 300 different things that need to be arranged closer. Hence, he certainly has nothing else to do in his work but to arrange closer. We in the SRS are convinced that laws serve precisely in order to determine, as close as possible, the law of matter which the law normally processes, to determine as close as possible individual members of the law or individual occurrences that the law should describe or to which it applies. And if we pass laws in such a way that most members end: the minister will decide closer, then we do not need such laws. Then the minister can rule through the government regulations, arrange some of the things he thinks is necessary for him to arrange them personally and at the government's session to pass the regulation. Then we don't need these laws, they burden us, they take up a lot of our time, and believe me, they don't solve anything. I'm convinced, in addition to what it says, "Minister", that the minister doesn't edit the largest number of these things. Of course, the minister can't function alone, that he has a team and that there are a large number of people who are doing it. Whether it is vanity, so that it is the minister that wants almost most of the members to end up with the minister getting closer, and this law, you see for yourself, is very technical. Here, however, it should stand: "Ministership". The minister may be away sometime, something will need to be arranged urgently, without the minister's arrival, it won't be able to end. But I know you have a big problem. I will give an example of the amendment to Franislav Periæ. I see that most members of the ruling coalition, at least from the Democratic Party of Serbia, would support his amendment, but the problem is that you can't. Because, if you support us, we will get this law again at the next session, and this has happened before, when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic – that the next session will have legislation that he did not like and then in the next law, in amendments, we have to vote as Mr Dinkic wants, or how, if he presents the Government, he presents it as he wants the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you are willing to put up with such a dictatorship, you are suffering it is ours to inform the citizens and to talk about that everything you suggest is really unnecessary and that it is incomprehensible that in the day of voting you accept such an amendment, which only suggests that the word "minister", replaces "ministration", simply wishing that citizens hope that one team, a team, decides on their fate, not one man, individual. You vote in voting day as you think you should, and we will continue to explain such amendments, especially if you look at this law in Article 52. – in one part, it is said that the government will do something closer. Below is a new stance that says, "The minister will determine in more detail". So, where the practical government commits itself to do something, if it is proposed by the Ministry of Finance, it has to stand under it -- and the minister will do it even closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17492	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 16a be added after Article 16. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Finance Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 17a be added after Article 17. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17493	Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax refers to Article 47. Law on value added tax, and Articles 18. The bill, which is on the agenda, instead of 5, is replaced by 10. In order to be clear now, the new Article 47 would read: "The obligor is obliged to keep records of Article 46 of this Law for at least 10 years after the end of the calendar year on which the records apply." We've asked for this change to be deleted, to remain what it was, so the obligation to keep records is five years, at the end of the calendar year that the records refer to. In response to this amendment, the Ministry stated that this change was also proposed because it was written in Article 32 that the debtor who had obtained the right to deduct the previous tax in the purchase of equipment and facilities is obliged to make corrections to the deduction of the previous tax if he ceases to meet the conditions for the achievement of this right and within a short period of five years from the time of first use of the equipment, or 10 years from the moment of first use for the facilities. This is a very interesting exception, where the right to deduct the previous tax would be realized. Specific and exceptional, and we do not know why this provision, as an exception, would have to become a rule regarding keeping records and documentation. Probably 99% of all records and all documents relating to value added tax do not concern the transport of this type of goods, and these are definitely equipment, plants etc. I don't know why anyone would have to keep that record for 10 years. I'd have to keep this record relating to the purchase of equipment, but why would a record of ordinary traffic across the fiscal register and what is done every day, why would it be kept for 10 years, when at the end of the tax year we have ended the tax status of the taxpayer. This only applies the general accounting rules which have set out exactly which documentation for how many years is kept and does not need to be particularly potentiated in this law and some other deadlines are set. Now I can ask the Proposer a question, if, in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment to Article 32, nothing has changed. This is a provision that has existed since the Law on Value Added Tax was adopted. Why didn't he put a 10-year term in article 47 then? What's this about? It is that, when the tax administration comes out of control, (and they know how to be tough in that control), then, within the deadlines within which records and tax inspectors and tax police officers are kept, they return to those periods. So they control themselves, or their colleagues, who were five months ago, six months, a year, two years ago. If a mistake is found in some past, then that mistake combined with this provision and other provisions (and we will see it in this next law) seems to be a very effective means of pressure for a person to accept any punishment only to avoid a more significant procedure or not to resort to more rigorous penalties based on tax rules, where penalties are millions, imprisonment etc. That is why it takes them ten years to return freely, to exercise control and to put pressure on taxpayers. As far as the most common value added tax is concerned when it comes to the goods that are bought daily in stores, I must tell you that most companies in Serbia are likely to make an orderly reckoning about the situation in the account. That's how it's gonna happen, and most people get blocked, they pay fines, and they have to pay their taxes on added value. That's our reality, and that's why we need to extend this deadline. I agree, if the deadline only refers to what's specific, where the right to deduction is embossed with some term of use of equipment, goods, etc. It makes sense that this documentation is kept and that it is always proven during each control. For what is 90 and more percent of total traffic, there is no need to keep that documentation so much. Much more significant documentation in accounting is not kept for so long. It is known that permanent documents are kept on a permanent basis, such as data on employee receipts for the exercise of pension and disability protection rights, i.e. M4 and all those other records. It is known that the final accounts are kept, the balance sheet and the balance sheet of success and the documentation within which the deadlines are kept. With these things, you prescribe such long deadlines, mandatory keeping of documentation, it just indicates that something serious is being prepared. Articles 32, 1 and 2 have not changed. They existed when the Law on Value Added Tax was adopted. If at that time there were and was prescribed to keep the documentation for 10 years if this equipment is involved, why is it not stated in Article 47 that 10 years is kept, but only five years have been put in place. So it's something that's been designed and it's probably going to be a very good means of pressure that the non-critical, simple and party in the process doesn't ask the question, but just to say -- let me pay, so how much it turns out, what it turns out, just to save myself from these. You know what their control looks like and when they come in. However, I must be a little surprised, is it possible to extend the deadline, given that you remember that Junior almost invented those remote readers, those relays, etc. They're all bound and a remote reader that they have for the fiscal register. It's probably a job worth 20m to 30m euros in Serbia. The deadlines are up, they're all covered up by having a deal with the Galeb Group that gets it, and it's supposed to provide equipment to mount, so it goes, etc. Of course, Junior chose his supplier, type of reader, etc. (Nikola Novakovic from the post: It is not true. That's not true? Go out for a pay phone and tell me it's not true, and I'll call the businessmen, send Mr. Novakovic a letter and prove who's right, whether Novakovic or me. Is it settled? I ask the businessmen who have concluded contracts to purchase these remote readers to say how much they will cost, within what time they will get, how many businesses they need to provide. That modem should also describe how much it costs, let it be said, let the businessmen say why Mladjan Dinkic went, to that, to say where the money in the majority will end. If you think that's necessary for electronic monitoring, you're mistaken. It's a big deal, like the big business with the fiscal registers, it's a huge deal, and especially, Mr. Novakovic, explain who's going to pay for the fashion relationship and why? I know all about you experts, you challenge me, and after five months you come and tell me you were right. You challenged me, you never told me, you're right, but after five months they say - you were right or you say or Junior changes the law, make a deal. You have a similar situation with credit cards. Everyone has to have readers now, now it's known, three are licensed to go, the monopoly, (it's to make a monopoly). What's the effect of that control? No budget surplus in June! He doesn't know. Because a surplus can only exist at the end of the year, extra income over expenditure and only then is it noticed. What if it hits some elemental accident, where's his surplus? Don't lecture me. If you don't believe me, go to colleges, go to the academy, go to institutes, visit some banker, a businessman, ask him how it is on his skin, and how he's experiencing these changes of yours, imposes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17494	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 22 of the Law, which I have submitted to amendments and amendments to the VAT Act, reads - Article 22 is deleted. It refers to Article 22 in these amendments and additions, in fact to Article 52 of the Basic Law. What is foreseen by Article 52 of the Basic Law? It is provided that the amount of the previously paid tax, if higher than the amount of the tax liability, is entitled to return of the property. If the obligor is not defined for the refund referred to in Article 1, the difference shall be recognised as a tax credit and that was the case in the draft law and that is quite enough. These changes offer practically some possibility for taxpayers. Those who have a tax credit so that they can seek the refund of funds from the tax credit later and which is very strange, one regulation determines the earliest period when they can ask for it. The earliest they can ask for it then and then, and usually it's regulated by law when something can be required at the latest, when deadlines for something are due, and here it's completely the other way around. We believe that this Article 22 should not have come into these changes, that it is completely unnecessary, especially as in the explanation, i.e. what is given in Article 22, further said that these members are suggested that the taxpayer may request the refund of the unused amount of the tax credit by applying at the earliest end of the time limit for submitting the tax application for the current tax period. This shall not be provided to this Article 22, which has been proposed by these amendments and amendments. It was already provided by Article 52, where it is clearly stated in point 1 if the amount of the previous tax, if it is higher than the tax liability, the debtor has the right to recover the funds. If it does not request a refund, it will be considered a tax loan. Of course, that money can't go to waste and it's completely unclear why you want to practically make someone save money in the IRS, money he doesn't want to save, because he might want to save in the bank. Why would someone have a tax credit, even though they already have it and if it's not good to pay taxes? Then why condition him when he can withdraw the money at the earliest. That's what change is about. So money can be withdrawn, it should be able to withdraw at the moment when it is determined that he paid more and that tax credit does not want to be held in the tax administration. He wants the money back, he wants to invest it in another bank. Where does the Minister's right to make a commitment in this way to those taxpayers who have a surplus, who have a tax credit? When can they seek the return of funds at the earliest? This shouldn't stand in the law, because you taxpayers are destimulating taxpayers to pay you taxes, and they will pay you and account less than they should, so that the state doesn't serve their money needlessly. Then they'll have to add as much as the minister prescribes, since most of the things he prescribes. They'll avoid having extra money to give to run it as a tax credit, because if they give it, the question is when they'll get it out and if they can get it out. Here's how he decided that the minister would practically prescribe, how tax credit could be withdrawn, and this is the position to be inserted, which did not exist in Article 52 of the Basic Law. It says, the taxpayer may request the refund of the unused amount of tax credit referred to in Article 2 of this article by applying for the earliest expiry of the tax application deadline for the current tax period, which means that a quarter or end of the year is waiting. Potentially someone can spend a year with extra funds in the IRS and can't withdraw them, because the minister won't allow it. Although it was previously envisaged that if the debtor, if he has extra funds, he can make their return and, if he does not require a refund, the excess funds will be considered a tax loan. It is practically foreseen here that there must be a tax credit, that most of them will have to charge taxes in such a way that they give more money than they should, and that need of tax credit that will be in the budget, they will have to wait for a certain period until someone in the ministry approves that they can apply for a refund of these funds. It's really illogical, and that's why you're asking to delete an entire member. I'd like to comment on one more thing here (because I won't answer any more of this law) how demagogue sounds when there's a reason for these laws. Usually through explanations he wants to introduce himself to the citizens that from the moment this is adopted, everything will go, everything will be better. There is a very funny sentence in the analysis of the effects of the proposed measures, where it is said: "By passing this law will allow citizens to buy new apartments". So much is booming in Serbia, it's just amazing how it makes it possible to buy new apartments. People grab on agencies, can't build apartments as many people have money to buy and then say, and reducing tax rates for individual goods and services will positively affect citizens' living standards. This reduction in the rate that will have a positive impact on citizens' living standards is said ultimately in the effects that they are said to change and decrease for individual rates, i.e. for individual products, goods and services, will not affect the budget negatively, as the rate will expand. So, since the increase in citizens' standards has nothing, the state is on its own, it may even have more effects than these changes and the additions to the budget. Unfortunately, we are only left to present this to the citizens of Serbia about these proposals coming from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17496	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17497	Of course, non-contained drinking water is also subject to value added tax. You know it's a new innovation, and it's going to be beneficial, because as they drink water, it's not 18%, it's 8%. For 10% cheaper. As far as Article 22 is concerned, it's an interesting thing for a taxpayer's right, which is called a tax credit, to turn into something that, with great torment, a man can realize. Very simple and simple. The tax was previously paid by the man and he is in greater amount than should be paid, it is undeniably determined. Stav 1. says the taxpayer has the right to seek vomit, and how the return will be done says the last position - the minister is closer to regulating the process of regaining the VAT. Here you can now expect different locks, and a request, and a taxi, and three copies, and in that service, in that service, the wrong number, the home number, there will be everything because of the many possible records. So count on it to be a googot. The second right is right from Article 2. — if the obligor is not defined for recovery under Article 1 of this Article, the difference shall be recognised as a tax credit. So if he doesn't ask for it back, it's accounted for as the amount of tax credit. Then this is what the proposal for a change is built in – the taxpayer may ask for a refund of the unused amount of credit. It's that situation where there's a drastic difference. There's been a mistake. A larger amount has been paid that exceeds probably several times the tax liability and it stands there as a tax and in another period of time by charging can balance the situation. Since it is assumed that this will last long because of the amount itself then and the tax credit, part of that tax credit has reason to return to the taxpayer because it is his assets. It's not about small funds, it's about large funds. Here now comes our friend again – the taxpayer may request the refund of the unused amount of tax credit from item 2 of this article by submitting an application as early as possible on the deadline for submitting tax returns for the current tax period. So, by the end of a quarter, he's getting the earliest right to look for his own. This can't stand in the law. What else is waiting for him? He is awaited by the position 4 which he says - the return from the Articles 1 and 3 of this article shall be made no later than 45 days, i.e. within 15 days for taxable persons who do mainly foreign goods after the expiry of the deadline for the submission of the tax application. So, at the earliest time of the deadline, at the earliest 45 days after the expiry of the deadline, that is, from the date of submission of the request of the Article 3. That means the state uses other people's money, literally the state uses other people's money. It can take some time three, four, and even six months. It's theoretically possible that someone's been using someone else's money for six months. Budget's probably using someone else's money. The man is in the process of returning, and he hopes that today, tomorrow, he submits requests, waiting for this deadline to expire, so he waits within this time limit for it to end. Now look at something that should not stand, the next position says – the government of the Republic of Serbia sets out criteria on which to determine what is considered to be a burdensome transport of goods abroad, and then the next position – the minister is closer to regulating the process of regaining VAT, as well as the procedure and conditions for returning VAT instead of tax credit. All these members you change, if you look at, is in the last position -- the minister prescribes, the minister writes laws, the minister writes the Constitutional Charter, the minister defines, all the minister works. The biggest job the government is doing is to prescribe criteria to determine whether the company is mainly exporting. It's probably looking at the total size of the business, so it's said to mainly export, and because it's mainly exported to it, we're going to return within 15 days, not within 45 days. That's what you boasted, as aid and stimulation to exporters, in tax policy aid and stimulation to exporters. Unnecessary change, completely unnecessary change by the bill. This change is needed by the Ministry of Finance because it surrounds the story of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, rounding the story in the wrong way. I'm telling you again, you're doing it the wrong way. You misjudged the tax rates. You set the deadline wrong, you did the wrong thing, and then you have this situation that you have. Our economy isn't working. It cannot be matched by a cantar with goods and money and artificially held to the stability of the currency, and a realistic standard of living falls for the citizens. It's all got some capacity, it can go a little bit. It seems to me that you've come to the bottom, and you have no program, no vision where you should give in and revive business activity. The situation is very serious, but you don't want to understand it, and since you don't want to understand it then it's illusory to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17498	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 24a be added after Article 24a. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Finance Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 27a be added after Article 27a. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 30th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treaty procedure and the Tax Administration (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Milajić, Bozidar Koprivica, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Dragan Čolić, Momir Marković, Milorad Mirčić, Nikola Lalić, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Nemanja Sarović and Dusan Petrović. Reports of the Finance and Legislative Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted have been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the two basic characteristics of this law, which has been proposed to amend and supplement the tax procedure law and the tax administration. The first is to strengthen restrictions towards tax bonds, and the second is to empower the finance minister to be able to pay the taxpayer according to his personal assessment to postpone payment of tax obligations. As regards the amendments I have submitted to Article 6, it essentially refers to Article 65 of the basic text explaining the maturity for tax collection, then fines. Article 65 of the basic text of the Law speaks of maturity, of deadlines. The tax, as set out in Article 54, states in paragraph 1, shall be eligible for payment within the time limit laid down in the law. According to Article 2(2), the obligation to pay a fine shall be due within 30 days of the date of eligibility of the decision to impose a fine. In the third point, it is said that the right of the taxpayer and the other person to return more or less paid tax and the tax refaction shall expire on the deadline laid down in Article 65(4) and (5) of this Act. The Proposer predicted a change here by changing this deadline from item 2. – instead of 30 days so far allowed or left to the taxpayer to pay the fine, the deadline is now reduced to 15 days. So, according to this proposal, the taxpayer has an obligation to pay a fine within 15 days of the date of his decision to impose a fine. I suggest that this member be deleted, or that no such amendment be adopted, to remain the original deadline of the existing Law for 30 days. I don't think there's a reason or at least that reason isn't explained in this bill, it's not even explained at all. There is no explanation in the explanation why this measure is being taken and this deadline is being shortened. In particular, I must say that there is no justification for this amendment if it is taken into account that a year or more ago, (in May of last year), when amendments to this law were also made, it was found "when a reasonable suspicion exists that a tax offence has been committed, the inspector of the office or field control is required to submit without delay a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure". This means when an inspector suspects in the control of a breach, in addition to requiring the removal of that irregularity, he requests, namely, to file or apply for an infringement procedure, automatically. So, it's a legal obligation for the inspector to immediately apply for a misdemeanor procedure, regardless of whether or when this taxpayer will remove this irregularity. Therefore, there is no reason or no reasonable reason for this deadline to be reduced from 30 days to 15 days, given that a misapplication is automatically filed, means that as soon as an irregularity is suspected in control. Ladies and gentlemen, I need to look back here on something I spoke about in the principle debate on this bill. In that case, I expressed my suspicion, that is, I brought some information here from Užica, which is related to the work of the Tax Administration in Užica. I said at the time that it was the information I got, and I wanted to bring it out here in public. I have asked the competent Ministry, i.e. Minister and Director of the Republic Tax Administration to verify this information and that any irregularities that exist there, documents, and, of course, all with a purpose and in the interest of all citizens of Užic, i.e. the Zlatibor County, which are directed and directed to the Tax Administration in Užica. Unfortunately, to this day I have not received any information that anything has been done. Personally, here in this congregation, no one came to me to explain to the MPs and the public what it was about. Mr. Zivadinovic, an MP from Užica, told me that the criminal application, which was filed against the director of the Tax Administration in Uzic, allegedly, was rejected or rejected, as he said, was unfounded. I'd like the Ministry to deal with this problem a little bit, see if those are the information I've provided and take the necessary steps. They repeat several basic things related to the Tax Administration in Uzica and again invite the Ministry and Director of the Republic Tax Administration to check all of this and to intervene as soon as possible, so that any irregularities, i.e. the work of the Tax Administration, are brought into line with the law. Last time, I said here that the director of the Tax Administration in Uzica had appointed the head of the Emergency Payments Department at the Tax Administration in Užica, a man convicted of the crime of financial malfeasance and abuse for a year in prison, or three years in probation. The man remains in charge of forced payment and, more drastically, he is at the director's post these days, given that the Director of the Tax Administration is on vacation, so he performs or performs his duties as director, while the Director is on vacation. Also, the director of the Tax Administration in Uzic is also the director of a NGO called the Centre for the Development of Local Initiatives. I'm asking you, is this some kind of conflict of interest, if we can say so, that the director of a state body, like the IRS, runs an NGO in one district at the same time? Also, these days, in the Tax Administration in Uzica, there are solutions to the cancellations. Workers are fired, inspectors who have years of work experience. People who have 20 or more years of work experience are fired, while new young people are received in a working relationship. Of course, I'm not against it, but the basic criterion is party membership. It is the members of the G17 Plus party, since the Director of the Tax Administration is also a member of the G17 Plus in Užica. So, at the same time, we have the release of people with experience, long-term workers, inspectors and on the other side of the reception of new young people, but of course by party criteria. The question arises, if it is already a commitment to reduce the number of employees in the state administration and public services, how do we increase the number of employees by receiving party personnel? Also, when it comes to firing people, I have to say that it's under pressure; that people are forced to sign statements saying they're going to leave the IRS voluntarily and they're not going to ask for a job in state authorities anymore. Here is a photocopy of such a statement, which is probably prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because here it is called for by some regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That statement states that the worker declares, in accordance with the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, that he is not interested, following the adoption of a new Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, to be deployed to one of the jobs set out in the new Regulation or to any other post in any other State body. Of course, this is not controversial if a man accepts it voluntarily, if he wants to leave his job for any reason, if he gets some severance money for it. However, there is a phenomenon in Uzic that people are forced to sign these statements and that is for people who have 20 and more years of work experience on these jobs. Simply, they only know the job to do, and others don't know, and if you fire them now, get out of the IRS, of course they can't do anything else, they won't have any income, because they're only trained to do tax work, they've been tax collectors for 20 years and more. Once again, I ask the Ministry and I ask the authorities in the IRS to check all these allegations and, if they are correct, to take appropriate measures in the interest of the citizens of Užic, i.e. Užička County, Zlatibor County and all taxpayers who are referred to this IRS in Užica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17500	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17501	The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the basic one that we are changing today for the fifth or sixth time, was passed in such a draconian form at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic and his minister, Bozidar Djelic. Since the adoption of this law, Bozidar Djelic in the people has been called "God's Derizo". There have been several amendments to this law, (this is the sixth change) and in each change even more rigorous, even more unconstitutional solutions, illegal solutions. It's really amazing that the Ministry is acting like there's not a single lawyer in the Ministry of Finance. What you've predicted in these changes, you'll hear in the course of the debate from other colleagues from the SRS, and now I'm going to talk about Article 7, this and the trainee lawyer wouldn't allow himself to propose as a legal solution. Petar Jojic suggested that Article 7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is deleted. His explanation is what we said in the principle debate and gave as a basis for an objection to the amendments to this law, which is that the tax administration's proposed solutions also took over the role of legislative and judicial authorities. What does Article 7 apply to? It refers to Article 66 of the Basic Law. In Article 66 of the Basic Law, for reasons of public and for reminders, it is not a short member, but I must read it, it is said: "In order to ensure the collection of taxes which have not arrived at the collection but which has not been established, or a procedure of determination or control has been initiated, and there is a risk that the taxpayer will defuse, make it ineffective, or make its collection, the Tax Administration can, by way of a solution, establish temporary measures to ensure the collection." This first attitude is amazing. "The decision of Article 1 also contains an explanation why the Tax Administration considers there to be a danger for the taxpayer to deprive, i.e. to prevent the collection of the unattainable tax," and now it is added: "and becomes executive on the day of delivery to the taxpayer". It is further said: "Temporary measures are, in the sense of this law, the right to move things, immovableities, money and claims of the taxpayer. The procedure for the establishment and termination of the publishing rights referred to in Article 3 shall be carried out by appropriate application. 87th and 91st of this law. The provisional measures shall be due to the collection of taxes for which security has been established or until the time when the taxable person provides adequate insurance of the tax liability, within the meaning of Article 74(2) of this Act. Exceptionally from Article 5(5) of this Article, the provisional measure referred to in Article 87(3) of this Act shall take place until the moment of delivery of a solution to the mandatory collection of the tax on the taxpayer's accounts to an organisation responsible for forced collection. Against the solution set out in Article 1 of this Article, the taxpayer may make an appeal. The complaint referred to in Article 7 shall not delay the execution. "The amendments to this article, where the solution is scheduled to become executive on the day of delivery to the taxpayer, are in collegiate with this pre-lated position, where it is said: "against the decision of the 1st member, the taxpayer may declare a complaint. "One of the lawyers should have taken a serious seat and, if he had already been tasked with changing this article, it should have been brought into line with some basic laws that are the basis for applying and adopting this law. An explanation of why the Government does not accept the amendment says: "because the proposed solution is in accordance with the provisions of Article 261(3) of the General Administrative Procedure Act", further, which has been found to be the first-degree solution to be executed, among other things, by delivering to the parties, if the appeal does not delay execution. The extension of the enforcement period is deprived of any basis and has a negative impact on the effectiveness of tax collection." This first position on the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is well written in an explanation, but essentially not in the bill. If an appeal for a solution does not delay execution, it does not mean that the principle of secondaryity in the administrative procedure can be ignored. It must exist and there must be an opportunity to invest an appeal on a solution to the complaint. Any administrative act shall be subject to the possibility of second-degree action under that act. Although it does not delay the execution, such complaints can, in principle, be filed within the short deadlines and can always be made in the complaint to state some new moment, some new fact, new knowledge that can be determined by the competent authority to still delay execution until it is established or if it has already established that there are legitimate reasons that, in fact, there is no place to execute. In this law, not only in this article, but not in this law at all. This law, no changes and with these changes, turns the tax administration into a gang of burglars and robbers. That's what we said when we talked about this basic law. He can't think of anyone walking into a man's house and confiscating his stuff. Taxes have to be paid and it's not controversial, but the state has to find a more subtle way. Or, if he's going to use force, then you know who's in charge of it, you know what the police are doing, you know what the courts are doing. Not every service can organize its own inspections, Inspector, and everyone can knock on your door at any time of the day and night, and yet, if you don't open it, break in and come in and say it – I estimate that this TV costs you so much and I carry it because you didn't pay the tax. It can't do that. The bottom line is this view of the 2nd government's argument: "The extension of the enforcement period is devoid of any basis and negatively affects the efficiency of tax collection". So the tax has to be charged. The way and the means are not chosen. It can be over the dead, but it's important that the tax be charged. I repeat, the tax must be paid and the tax must be charged, but not in a way that has been done since 2000, since Djindjic, Zivkovic and these today's government. You here, in article 66, which is even more generous after these changes, and it is radical and basically, you have assumptions – "In order to ensure tax collection that has not arrived for payment but which has not been established, or a process of determination or control has been initiated". Imagine, "there is a danger for the taxpayer to narrow down, disable, or make its charge ineffective". Who is it that has the right to assess whether I, as a taxpayer, am going to escrow tax payments or not?- I'm sorry. Even if I didn't pay some previous taxes in time, I might at some point have a better material situation, if it was a reason, or if my conscience worked out earlier, or if I didn't, or if I realized that government obligations had to be paid, if I hadn't realized it before. So there's no excuse for you to imagine, in the law, assuming that someone might not pay the tax and then have to access the drastic dragon measures to make that someone pay the tax. It's said to be a solution from Section 1. (what I was just reading) contains an explanation – which is why the solution contains an explanation, imagine, it is written in this law; as if it does not exist in the general administrative procedure of the form which every solution must contain. What makes the tax administration feel that there is a danger that the taxpayer should deprive the taxpayer, i.e. to prevent the collection of the unattainable tax?- I'm sorry. So there's a tax administration official who resents a taxpayer or he's with him anyway, and he's going to come and say that he's not willing to pay any future tax. Then he'll write a nice solution, so here he says - the solution must have, imagine, "deposit", a hole in the pot. He's going to write in an explanation that he's estimated that this guy won't pay his taxes, and then he's going to go, and he's going to break his door, and he's going to grab his stuff, and he's going to do what he thinks he's doing, and he's going to chase his creditors. It's just amazing. Why the fear, why the mistrust of citizens, of taxpayers? No matter what, since 2000, everything but breathing air has been taxed, regardless of which, citizens are mostly disciplined and are certainly calmed down and happy if they can reconcile them. The fact that you've introduced so much and so high taxes can happen that sometimes someone isn't in a position to settle their tax obligations in time. But there must be a certain procedure, in the end, a court case has to be conducted, and that what you've predicted for the tax perpetrators - it has to be the work of the judicial perpetrators, police must be hired, etc. It is, therefore, in that last, final instance, if the tax is not paid, and not under any assumption, by some tax collector, who has not been put into the pocket by a taxpayer, he will estimate that this future is going to be an unwitting citizen; and then he will apply all these measures and bring a solution to which there is no right to appeal, because it is the executive day of delivery to the taxpayer. Not the next day, but the day of delivery. So he can find a taxpayer – the tax administration can meet a taxpayer on the street, recognize him, know him, and tell him: take this solution. This man receives a solution – he has not arrived home, nor come to his business facility on the basis of which he pays taxes, there has already arrived a team of tax collectors, but is taking his goods; he may be carrying money in his pocket, he may be willing to pay that tax in the next half hour, but he has not reached his house, before he arrived workers of the tax administration, perpetrators and prey of things, who do not care that he was willing to pay that tax. Of course, it is again an opportunity for what all citizens know – how some people from the tax administration do, of course, not all of them, of course, not most of them. Every time we talk about these things, I stress that most citizens in Serbia are honest and honest people. That most of the employees in all the state services are honest and honest people. But the few, who aren't, abuse this and these laws. Whoever didn't get some dinar in his pocket when he went to the store or another craft shop, it doesn't matter where, if he doesn't get what he expected in his pocket, he'll be so nice to apply this article of the 66th Law, with this amazing change that – the solution becomes executive on the day of delivery to the taxpayer. So you're opening up the possibility of abuse and, most importantly, you're putting all taxpayers in a very insecure position. Instead of opening up the possibility of small and medium-sized enterprises, for various individual ideas, instead of really doing it through laws like this, you're just talking on the media, on some public shows, and when the law comes, you think - people don't know what it is, who's going to read the whole law, who's going to read the laws in the Official Messenger. But the people in the field know what these people in the IRS do to them. They know how much they have to pay to comply with this law, because if they don't pay by accident, then they'll have what I talked about in the last few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17502	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17503	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here we have reached the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, a law that regulates how tax is charged, or how tax is taxed to taxpayers, to be precise. The fact is, tax is a legalised vision of rackets. The question arises as to the benefits of the country's racketed citizens, if they are already paying that tax? Are they better? It's hard, because the unemployed are getting more and more, the imports are getting bigger, inflation is getting bigger, they're the direct consequences of your government. Whenever people don't have money, then a stricter tax law has to be made that regulates how citizens are charged with that racket called tax. It regulates this law that's now on the agenda. Feel free to say we're back in the Middle Ages on taxes. This is the powers of tax inspectors and perpetrators only when they charged taxes for emperors and kings, not for republics, states, which have been divided into legislative, judicial and executive powers. What is said in Article 71 of the Basic Law, which is now complemented through Article 8, to which I have submitted the amendment? "The tax administration will send to the taxpayer a reminder of the type and amount of tax, in whole or in part, that he did not pay for his maturity, that is to say, of the income tax due immediately, and at the latest within a period of time", now new, "five days". So far there have been 10 days, from the date of receipt of the notice, with interest calculated from the date of issue of the notice until the date of payment of the tax due, i.e. the parallel tax duties. Now I'm interested, when it comes to that interest, what interest is being charged? Is it still 0.2% a day, as the tax administration has done so far, non-constitutional interest rate, unconstitutional interest rate, comfortable method, day to day shifts, tax returns, or the next day due to the principal, etc. If you don't, God forbid you're one day late and you don't pay your interest in 10 days, the amount of interest will be higher than the basic tax debt for which you're late, God forbid, one day. Now he's still in a hurry and it's said five days from the day of his warning. What's the rush? The one who wrote the amendments and the additions to this law obviously doesn't know what the taxpayers are in. Do you really believe that the vast majority of taxpayers want to pay taxes, but there's no money. That's the problem. Why is it so hard to charge taxes? There's no money. One hand is empty, the other one has nothing, so you decided to put fear into their bones with this law and, as in the Middle Ages, to break into houses, to carry TVs, refrigerators, wardrobe, if necessary, it's important that the tax is charged. I'm just still expecting that in some next proposal to amend and supplement the law and cut your hands off the taxpayer, who hasn't paid his taxes, you just don't have that left to scare the citizens who are filling your budget. These changes and additions bring back our tax administration in the Middle Ages. The way tax is forced is from the Middle Ages. You have no right, the taxpayer loses all rights. He can start a administrative dispute before the court, but when he gets it – the tax solution is the executive date of delivery. It can be tried for 20, 30 years, it can be completely right man, it can spend its whole life in that court, it doesn't matter, you've charged a tax that maybe you shouldn't have, and as we'll see. The following is added: "The notice from Article 1 of this Article also contains a lesson to the taxpayer that within five days the tax administration may discuss issues of the type and amount of tax, i.e. parallel tax charges due for payment". So, yes, you gave that possibility, but now the question is whether this taxpayer will be able to come to order, because knowing the tax administration's system, the warnings aren't being sent individually just in case, but they're waiting to be accumulated for 40, 50, 100 of these applications. Tax executors, inspectors, and then, in a pattern, they just drop on the ground and run away. He's in the field in control. The taxpayer needs to chase him, pull him by the sleeve, look for him so he can level his tax books with him. It happens in practice, it happens in the field. You've overcome yourself here, I suppose, in the desire to show that it's not the Middle Ages. You've done it pretty stupid and sloppyly. It's said in point 3. - "The notice from Article 1 of this Article shall be delivered in a manner specified in Article 36 of this Act, and shall, whenever possible, be sent by e-mail, fax, telephone or courier." This by courier okay, come on, I accept, no problem, you reverse the warning, the courier returns the delivery note, and that's where the procedure is over. So he must have received the taxpayer's notice. What if you e-mailed? Is he obliged to check his e-mail every day? Who else is required? What law does that say? Maybe it's his faulty computer, too. You sent a warning and what now. Maybe send him some virus, nothing would surprise me. Just so you can collect your taxes as easily as possible. On the phone, you're really original. Fax, come on, it's not really, quite, but it's acceptable. On the phone, you think you're giving someone a warning, and you're saying, "If a tax notice is sent on the phone, the official face of the IRS puts together an official note and invests it in case files." How do you know you turned the right phone? Is a mistake possible? Yes, it is. A man turns the wrong number, on the other hand, a prankster introduces himself and says, "I am." You take the paper and the pen, write a note about what you're going to do. It's really original. That's surprising. I guess it's in that desire to prove that we're in the 21st century, so we can send notices by electronic means, like e-mail, fax, phone, but we'll charge taxes by means of a Middle Ages method. It's the best, the best method. You have no one to complain to, and if you complain, who knows when you will exercise your right to do so. These are the reforms of the tax system, which the government, in continuing with the previous government, are implemented and are at least in the interest of the citizens. Because one other question arises – is this state exists because citizens or citizens exist because of the state. When it comes to Minister Dinkic -- which is the same thing -- they were together, they were playing together, singing, dancing, the same orchestra, it seems to me that citizens exist for the sake of the state. It should still be the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17504	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17505	Since the amendment refers to a member who regulates the reminder, I must again point out some things that cannot stand in this article, which is now Article 71. You say this: "The tax administration will pay the taxpayer a tax payer who, in whole or in part, did not pay taxes on maturity, i.e. a side tax payment". I have to tell you, throughout the law, you're not making a difference. When you talk about a tax solution, you have to use the word "rock." When you talk about a claim, then you can talk about maturity. In terms of maturity, there was also a date, when it stopped more that there was a time when someone could have done something voluntarily. Since you do not make that difference and this whole tax procedure and tax administration law practically regulates the solution, in addition to these other things, one very specific administrative procedure, your maturity can only occur at the stage of forced collection. All of what you're asking to interpret as maturity is actually a word of rock. It's that big mistake. Because of that big mistake, then you're doing something that's impossible, and you're putting it in Section 2. On the other hand, you're cutting the deadline. Until now, when the taxpayer gets a warning, he has 10 days to voluntarily fulfil his tax obligations, and if he does not meet it, then the tax administration gets the right to access the mandatory tax charge. What are you putting in here now? In attitude 2, you say, so it is reduced by five days from the day the notice is received, it is required to pay voluntarily, you say, "with interest calculated from the day of the warning." The notice has been issued, as the claim has already arrived, "until the day of payment of the tax due". How do you know when he'll pay? You probably wanted to cover a period of 10 days, five days, and then give him a calculated interest, the amount of interest. You've turned everything around, because you can't do this. How can you hand a man a bill of interest for a future thing, and you don't know when he'll pay. Only when the payment is made is it seen how late it was, and then the interest rate is applied, and it is determined how much it is in the money. You have practically now defined the future claim, the amount of future giving. That's impossible. If you'd said, with a warning, you'd be supplying a bill of interest, from the day of maturity to the day of the warning, I'd understand. That's what banks are using right now. Someone had an obligation to pay the 30th, not to pay the 30th, but to pay the 5th or the 6th, and they had received the payment and already the 7th or 8th note what their interest-based liabilities were, because they didn't pay in time, but they have a cut, so they can determine the amount of interest. You define something here, you don't even know when it's going to be a intersection, because you say, with interest calculated from the day of the warning. So, today, to the day of the tax due, and that will be in the future. How did you figure out how many days he'd pay? How did you figure out what day you were forced to execute? How could you turn a future situation into something real? That's impossible. You had to calculate the taxpayer's interest, because when he had to pay, he didn't pay. You have warned him, and by the day of the warning he probably passed some period, and for that period, interest on the due demand is being calculated. You've been doing this all along. You wrote something that's legally impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17506	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17507	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to Article 77. The proposal for a tax procedure and a tax administration is provided for an amendment that, among other things, the tax notice is to be sent within five days and that the fact of the tax notice is within five days and that the taxpayer is obliged to pay his obligations, unsettled obligations within five days, is closely linked to Article 77 which regulates the initiation of the mandatory tax collection procedure. The tax administration has extended its power to this effect, has introduced too strict and rigorous control and forced collection of disputed unpaid liabilities, as the tax administration does not at the same time mean that the taxpayer is obliged to pay that notice. A possible mistake, if there was an error in the tax bill, so even the taxpayer would not be obliged to pay for it. However, by tightening the rules in this area and the amendments and additions to this law, the government has tried to introduce even more rigorous measures towards tax bonds, as if the proposer of this law, from the assumption that all taxpayers are criminals and thieves who want to tax the state in advance, and the state is the one who needs to catch them. They know in advance that people who are engaged in certain activities intend to cover their taxes, and it is the state that will also detect them rigorously punish them by applying certain measures, such as, banning the exercise of activity, high fines, looting of goods, etc. All these measures, which are foreseen by amendments and additions to this law, will not help economic operators, but will, on the contrary, make their work and work more difficult. In particular, this will be seen in subsequent amendments to the Institute of Obligation. There's also an extended deadline from 30 to 60 days, so it's completely unclear that someone who hasn't settled their tax obligations will be punished for not working for 30 days, and now it increases to 60 days, as if in the future they'll better settle their tax obligations. Logically, it's just the other way around. He needs to be allowed to work. If he committed some tax offense, he should be fined for it. The state must make sure that everyone according to their economic strength meets their tax obligations. The state can't ban anyone from doing any work without asking him to pay taxes. That's two things that rule out each other. They're simply incompatible with each other. As for a specific member of 77 who is in relation to Article 71, because it covers the entire mandatory collection procedure, starts with a warning, and until a solution to the mandatory collection and the procedure itself is reached, the conditions continue to be tightened. At the end of Article 2, it is stated what all the solution should contain: the base of the tax debt, its remaining outstanding amounts, the calculated interest is there and, ultimately, it states that this solution should contain that notification of its rights in the mandatory payment procedure. I think this last piece of Article 2 is cynical, because absolutely no tax payer has any rights, especially as seen in paragraph 3 where the decision on the mandatory tax charge becomes executive on the day of delivery. So, the same day he was given a solution to the forced charge, it becomes executive. The appeal is a constitutional category and the Serbian Constitution allows for two-stageness in all procedures and there are exceptions, but they are restrictive natures and they should only be exceptions. However, in this law, it is a rule, a mandatory charge is made, and you later complain, so if a complaint is not adopted in the second-degree procedure, you will conduct a administrative dispute, so it will take two, three or five years. If by any chance it is proved that you were right in that tax procedure, while they pay you back that money, that money will be unscathed because it will not be returned with that interest that will cover the real rise in the cost of life and inflation that will be in that period. In addition to these measures concerning forced collection, confiscation of goods, bans on performance, I think the tax authority has risen above all other branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative and became power for itself. I think the finance minister contributed most to this package of tax and law, which concerns finance, himself and his ministry raised above the executive, judicial and legislative authorities and is trying to control the entire financial system. I think the amendment to the SRS, which I represent here, is correct, that it should be accepted and that the existing solution is certainly better than it was proposed in the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17508	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica. At the same time, I would like to inform you that today, in accordance with Article 85(4) and (5), we will be working until the end of the 32nd agenda. Now we're at the 30th point, and the 31st point has only one amendment. So, by the end of the 32nd agenda, if it takes 18.00 hours, it'll be after 18.00 hours, but I don't believe it. So, in conclusion, 32. At the end of the 32nd point, we'll stop working.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17509	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, by proposing that the Member be deleted. I will quote this article, which reads: "The decision in Article 1 of this article becomes executive on the date of delivery to the taxpayer". So, on the day of the delivery of a solution to the taxpayer, it becomes enforceable, which is, above all, incomprehensible and inadmissible. This is a radical and illegal, anti-constitutional solution that is trampled by the basic constitutional law of the appeal. It is incomprehensible that the proponent dared to administer the tax administration to the role of judicial and legislative authorities. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the right to appeal as one of the fundamental constitutional rights. Practically, this law removes the right to appeal, which is, from the point of view, incomprehensible and inadmissible. So the proposed solution is unsustainable and therefore I ask the Assembly and the Members of Parliament to adopt my amendment in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17510	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17511	This article of the bill introduces a new chapter in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and this chapter reads: "A temporary measure of ensuring tax claims in the mandatory charge of taxpayers' money". He's starting with article 87a. It's too bad there's no government representative here to explain where they went wrong. If it is a temporary measure, then the title would have to be - a temporary measure of the taxpayer's money. It could be different. It could be, perhaps because of the content, how they like to write it – a temporary measure of ensuring tax claims in the mandatory payment procedure over the taxpayer's money. This would suit one of the techniques right, which is represented in many of our regulations, above all I mean the Law on executive procedure and other regulations where it refers to temporary measures as means of securing a claim. You can see they've messed everything up, even the concepts. Then Article 87a states in the first position: "To ensure tax collection and parallel tax payments after the start of the mandatory payment procedure". After the start of the mandatory payment procedure, it cannot be so, but in the process of forced collection. It's called money. It should be – on the taxpayer's money, from his account, not his accounts. "According to the resolution of Article 92, Article 2 of this law, the Tax Administration is establishing a solution." He's not instituting, he's issuing a temporary security measure for the collection of tax claims. If you've determined this difference, between what's written here and what I've indicated should stand, you might have noticed that there's a big difference. But, as a rule, in the process of forced tax collection, we have a legally resolved legal situation. It is reflected in the fact that all the deadlines for voluntary tax payment have expired, which is the tax calculated and is being conducted as a due claim, but from one public-law relationship, because the whole tax system is that so-called tax system. Public-legal relations. Furthermore, a solution has been made on the mandatory charge and now only the funds are being chosen as to how, if I may say, the cashing, if it is a moving, immovable matter, so why not say and if it is the claims and the funds on the taxpayer's account, where it is practically very rare or practically impossible to use this type of security measure of the state's claim to the taxpayer. The previous provisions refer to the establishment of a right to the benefit of the Republic, on the basis of the claim it has for unsettled taxes according to the relevant taxpayer. We don't think this measure is necessary. But if the whole operation with this member is related to what's in Article 2. (where it is practically forbidden that the taxpayer, regardless of the blocking of the account, through the cesium, the asignation and otherly available to his property,) then you chose the wrong way and here you show that in the mandatory tax collection procedure you do not treat all the funds that are available to the tax administration. So you resort to this measure that is almost impossible at some point. Assignation and cessium, regardless of what you think is secretly happening between creditors, debtors, or a larger number of faces, I have to tell you that in the past few years, it was the only instruments that the company could survive. Get the big companies that are still unprivitized, who still have employees. When the Tax Administration blocks their account, they, in order to live, in order to have some business activity, have to go to the cesiums and assignations and otherwise provide funds, to work to settle the tax debt among other things. You're shutting down that asset now. I agree with you when it comes to a semi-mafia organization or some company, no employees, with just some passing account where everything and everything happens through it, that you need to apply some measure, but knowing those of you who apply these regulations, you're going to be a complete social economy to shut down. How can a company work when you've blocked her account for unpaid taxes? If you get this authority that by temporary measures you can ensure that the tax administration is required to prohibit everything, then write down one member – who does not pay taxes is taxed and the company shuts down immediately. That's funny to you, but in practice these things happen. Take any social enterprise that is not privatised, which has obligations that have not been settled on the basis of taxes, shut down the possibility of a commission, of acquittal, and that in some other way they negotiate and develop certain jobs with their debtors, this company no longer exists. If your goal is to put out all the companies, give a decree – there is no social enterprise from tomorrow. It's going to be a lot easier for you, and it's going to be a lot more correct for these people not to come to work anymore, to know they have no perspective, to know what's waiting for them. You cannot have the lack of economic activity in Serbia to solve the way you imagined, with tax policy and this tax procedure. If there's no good climate here for economic activity, and you, at the same time, are tightening the economy, it's killing the economy. That you have a good interest policy here, that there's some system of external trade relations, that our market is protected, that little priorities in our market have our business organisations, that it's possible to develop and some programs, to invest, that the bank funds used are cheaper, then that man understands what you're doing with tax pay. That VAT is 14 instead of 18%, that some deadlines have been set, that there is some tolerance prescribed by law, that a man understands you when you go with this temporary measure. This is where you tighten and tighten, the economy can't live. To avoid confusion, look at how many alleged banks from abroad have refurbished our banking market. One bank today has 100m euros in its account. Due to Jelasic's reserve policy, 25 million is not operational with 75 million, the bank is doing extremely well, placing loans. Can you explain to me whether this bank could work in Austria or Germany under the same conditions? She couldn't work. How does she do that with us? It works because it's an expensive loan she gives to the citizens. It's an expensive guarantee she gives to the economy. Who made it expensive – Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus?- I'm sorry. Because they contain abnormal reserves, completely abnormal reserves! It suits the outsiders here, they can pull out a big interest rate, and they can handle those big reserves they're bound to separate. And our economy can't now either through agnition or through a cell to fight for air, but by forced collection and by a mandatory charge procedure and by a temporary measure, which provides for a claim. Please, temporary measures shall be issued until the application has been completed or in some procedure, and you shall seek a provisional measure in the execution procedure. Is there anything else you can make up? Is there anything else you can make up? You have also invented the right to all resources in favour of the Republic for outstanding debts, and that stock that goes on the basis of outstanding loans under those rules on banking business, about privatisation – how does the economy live? How does our economy live? Anything you don't put out in the economy of economic policy measures, tax policy measures, you kill to the end. Is that your mission? If this is your mission, vote for one regulation – there are no more social enterprises in Serbia! There is no more company in Serbia that is not cooperative with Mladjan Dinkic! Write it down so it's clear to everyone. Nor would these discussions last this long, which are quite inefficient, but this is what we tell citizens, businessmen, understand those who have little understanding in this area. We are a little help to expose this, to let the public know what the government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy is. We're trying to tell you what the range is, what's going to happen. You smile – it's not like that. You're exaggerating, and in five months, confirm what we've told you. Can't have a temporary security measure in an emergency execution procedure! It can't end the story! Whoever claims to be able to come and prove to us, exists in that country, existed in our regulations once, in which regulations, as defined, whether as a temporary measure, whether as another measure, enter into debate. Like this, you write something down and throw yourself at the MPs. Now we have to prove what's wrong with it, and no one who represents this bill comes to praise the law and says it's wonderful, it's in accordance with the Constitution, it's in line with these regulations, it's in line with international standards -- no, but silence. Why the silence? Because 126 votes must be at the polls. It's democracy and it's a reflection of constitutionality and legality. What you're doing is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17512	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The main debate about this law was last week. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17513	There was a principle debate on this bill, as the president said earlier, but there was no minister at the time. In his opening statement, the minister didn't even mention this law, and I don't remember any of the colleagues who would vote for this law having been very involved in the debate and convincing us that we were wrong. Of course, we're right. I'm right when I say Article 14. The bill should be deleted. Indeed, this member should not remain in the final text of the law. Article 14. The draft amendments and additions to the Law refer to Article 89 of the Basic Law, where the Government has introduced quite a change in this article. First, in Article 89(1), the only thing that made sense was deleted: "The Tax Administration Officer authorised to carry out forced payment (hereinafter referred to as the tax payer) has the right to enter the land and the premises in which the taxpayer carries out his business activity and, with a judicial solution, to the flat of the taxpayer" – so you delete the possibility that something can be done with a court solution. However, a tax offender can never enter, only a court enforcer can. You've added two new attitudes here. You have added an attitude that says: "If the taxpayer is to enter the apartment or other room for the purpose of making a list, assessing and confiscating the movable items that are located in the apartment or in another room or in the list and assessing the apartment or other rooms which are subject to the payment of the tax liability or the mandatory payment of the tax liability in the procedure of establishing a temporary measure of tax collection, of the right of charge or of the mandatory payment of the tax liability, and their holder does not allow entry into the apartment or other premises"... - Of course no one in their right mind is going to let a tax collector get in there and do what he thinks he's doing. The tax administration therefore submits a request to the competent court for a solution allowing the tax enforcement officer to enter the apartment or other premises. A solution like this can't be made. The court can reach a solution for a court enforcer to enter the apartment, other premises and possibly execute a court ruling. So there must be a judicial solution to the execution, so that the bailiff executes that solution if the taxpayer does not execute it alone. The tax administration can't bring a solution there, the tax administration can try to execute it so it doesn't execute it and then file a request to the court and the court says that the tax collector can come in and harass the apartment or other room of a taxpayer who, for whatever reason, did not pay the tax. These amendments state: "an application by the competent court for a solution allowing the tax enforcement officer to enter into an apartment or other premises against the will of their holder, in order to carry out the action in the procedure of establishing a temporary measure of payment of the tax liability, the publishing law and other actions in the procedure of compulsory payment of the tax liability under this law. The application shall be accompanied by an executive solution to the tax administration referred to in Article 1(1). 66, 77 and 87 of this law. "So, such a solution is both unconstitutional and illegal, and only how immoral it is, and how much of an attack on taxpayers, how much fear and panic it brings. Well, taxpayers will have to (maybe that's why they can't pay taxes) hire physical security around their houses and other rooms, because based on this law, any minute they can get in the taxpayer and try to make a list of things, preying on things, etc. The government, in an explanation why it does not accept the amendment, among other things, says: "for the reason this norm has been introduced into the bill, in order to contribute to an even greater efficiency of the mandatory collection process". Why do I need this explanation, I know this. We know that the government has proposed all of this just to achieve an even greater efficiency in the mandatory collection process. It all comes down to repression, forced payment. It pays no attention to either the Constitution or other system laws that already regulate certain matter. It is only important to create the possibility that Dinkic's listeners run into people's homes, apartments, business rooms, make a list, take what comes to mind. It's just that Serbian citizens can't handle it. You can hear about that every day, if you accidentally contact the citizens, with the taxpayers. People want to be respected by the state, so they can respect the state. What they're threatened with is how someone's going to break into their room, what they're going to list there, it's not acceptable. Think about it, accept this amendment. Don't create a possibility of cowboyry in law enforcement. At the end of Article 89, you added another position, where it is said, "In the case of the 9th of this article", and the 9th point is: "The tax enforcement officer is authorised to remove the person who interferes with the enforcement of forced collection, and to ask for police assistance if the interference continues or if the person who owns things refuses to make them available for the purpose of carrying out the necessary collection". I ask you nicely, that someone who will vote for this law, since the minister is gone, explain to us how it will be the taxpayer to remove the person who interferes with the execution of the forced payment. Who's that tax collector who's gonna kick me out of my house because he came forced to pay his taxes? Is he gonna kill me? The only way he can kill me is to kick me out of the house, get him to do the list, get the stuff. There's no other way. Not every state authority can have police intelligence. Does this mean who doesn't pay an administrative fee, that he will be hacked into his house; who doesn't pay a court fee, that he may enter his house? It can't be done like that. It is for Mladjan Dinkic to fill the budget, but he must have some subtlety in applying the rules. This is not the way he behaves, that is, by his servants whom he will appoint to apply this law. Believe that many serious and smart people don't think to apply this law. Who's going to risk going to a man's house, killing him there, or he's going to have to kill him, getting him out of his door, getting in to do the job they sent him to. So, this latest stance says, "In the event of the 9th article's position, the police are required to provide the requested assistance within the shortest time of reception." How can we commit to the police this law? First of all, it's unclear what it means "as soon as possible from the reception of the call". How's he getting the call? Can anyone think to turn the phone around and say, "I'm a bailiff, I'm having trouble here, I'm asking the intervention to come." People come there, no bailiff, no trouble in the field. I guess there's got to be a deadline, to say when the authority of the administration goes to some execution, to inform the police in good time, that the police are going to talk to whoever's going to be causing trouble, that they're going to come to the scene just to take care of the public order and nobody's being threatened. It's all already regulated by law and there's no need to regulate this law, especially there's no need to regulate it like this incendiaryly and inaccurately. There is a Internal Affairs Act, and in this law it is regulated in such a way and in which cases the police intervene, as it is said, assists in the execution of a decision by the authorities or judicial authorities. So you can't mix grandmothers and frogs. We can't mess with the police authorities, the M.O.P. like this. If you think it's supposed to change, you have both the minister and the M.O.P. If you think the Internal Affairs Act should be changed in this sense, here you are, you can do it, but in this way you're entangled in the jurisdiction of the other law, and it's quite the opposite of what's already regulated in that basic law, it's not acceptable. I urge you to vote to be a member of the 14th. The bill deletes, (because I must have convinced you) I guess you realize that this is what a general papazian was made to do, that no one knows what he's doing or how he's doing or what he's working for. By applying this article, if you really vote for it, you'll only put the taxpayers and the taxpayers on the ground to fight. If that's your goal, then vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17514	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and only one notice before that. Mr Baralic, I am informing you and all MPs, as this session has been requested, as I promised, at the request of the President of the Assembly, has been sent to the government to call a tender for an independent auditor. It has been completed, sent to the Assembly and the Assembly will select an auditor, because we live in a country where no final account revision has been given for 2001 or 2002 or for 2003 or 2004. So this assembly will be able to consider the report in October, following a warrant that will be given by the end of next week. Thank you all. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, and please excuse me one more time for this notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17515	You have nothing to apologize for, Mr. Markovic. You know, the auditor, it's a questionable term now, and so is the person who's going to do the job. It is not a matter of who audits the budget – the one who is close and the organization you belong to and the current owners. Of course, he can't do it objectively. You say it will be announced, it will, but as all tenders have been set up so far in this country, so, just as it has been done in the judiciary, (and we have this bitter experience between 2000 and 2003, MPs who, even then, have had a lot of objections to such a choice of legal holders) will have the opportunity to see. But on that path, we'll wait until October to see what he finds, and then we'll go out with our data and our knowledge, of course. As regards the amendments I have made, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Article 15 refers to Article 90, i.e. Article 3 of the Basic Act. If this article were to be adopted, in this form and the previous one, which was spoken of by a colleague and spoken of by Mr Krasic, then the previous chapter and now, which defines in Article 90 of the Basic Law, how a list of immovableities is being carried out, as well as a list of moving things, something would happen, only now through an institution, such as the most legislative body – the Assembly. The adoption of such a law is a continuation of an anti-constitutional and against-law behaviour, similar to that in that famous action, these failed domsmanias know because Dusan Mihajlovic conducted it, and these days it is also spoken of as "scalpel", after the "Sabbel" action. Just like they did at the time, (only by misusing people employed in the MUP, especially at the Office for Combating Organized Crime and through one repression that was done then, along with the assistance of the MUP under the patronage of Dusan Mihajlovic) you want to do, giving such powers, completely contrary to the Constitution, to the tax perpetrators. Indeed, if you look at what is in this article 90, or 15. You'll see that it's not normal. Specify one country where it is possible to go into two other legal dimensions or forms in this way – both property-legal relations and family relations. This attitude 3 is changed to read, and listen to Dinkic's invention, in article 90, paragraph 3 - and on the basis of the court's solution and to the residence of the taxpayer. That judicial solution, which this perpetrator will employ under Article 89, has just been said to have the right to enter the apartment of a taxpayer or a member of a family with which the taxpayer lives in a household and to make a list of things. Imagine, here you are, Mr. Markovic, hypothetically, and every MP here, who is present, speaking to my fellow Members to let it happen to them, let's say, yes, don't God, but it's possible that one of them's wife makes tax evasion. The tax payer comes, (it employs this solution at the competent court) the house, the house, the door, the good day. Are you both husband and those persons? I did. Is she there – she has done tax evasion, I have brought a solution; otherwise she comes with the powers Djelic gave in the basic text of the Law, where he did not pass the part (under pressure, the public, and most of all by the MPs) that the taxpayer may also have a gun behind the belt. We were really surprised at one such solution, so we said, "Well, if you've already predicted that he can carry a gun, then put it in what part of the room, when he enters the office room, (if at the register or on the closet) he should put that gun down. Since it didn't go through, this one now comes in and says, "Is the wife there, is she not there?" I came here to make a list of things, because it says here – and in the apartment, where the taxpayer lives, and he doesn't own the apartment. That husband is not being led by that apartment, the husband may not even know what it did, and the tax collector comes and asks him to make a list of things. This guy, Malten, grabs him by the ear and throws him out, says, "Whom did you come to list things, what do I have to do with what my wife did and maybe she didn't even inform him?" So, theoretically, it's possible. That's what I did. However, you realize that it is impossible to play with something that is legally impossible in this way and I do not know in which country it exists at all. How can you give such authority to the tax enforcement officer to enter a property that is not owned by a taxpayer? It may be that there is another case; that the oldest host of the family is no longer alive, that he left two or three sons, that they are members of the family household, that there is still a desert debate on which some part of the inheritance will remain. One of those two or three sons has made tax evasion, the tax enforcer is coming, how will he know, within a household, in which no property-legislative relations have been resolved, there is still no telling what it is, to make a list of things? If you want or if Mladjan Dinkić has such a fantastic (under the circumstances) idea of incorporating such provisions into this basic text of the Law, it thus puts into a really funny position of the taxpayer. If you accept this, with these two most obvious examples that can happen, and a million such situations (some others and similar), it is, in fact, the act and what this law is, that is, the inability to pay taxes in the right sense. Not on this, first of all, nakaradan, basically all these changes are repressive, the way it can't be done. The previous article makes it clear that, since the taxpayer allegedly employs the solution, under the assumption that the proposed article 89 is adopted then the Government responds to me and says – nothing is the opposite, neither the Constitution nor the law, that the taxpayer, based on a court solution, enters. The first question is, how is he going to come to that judicial solution in the first place, and how is it possible that, without the presence of a court enforcer, he comes and does a list of things? Further, the bill's proposer is burying more and more. Because, you know, if he doesn't know the basics, if he doesn't know how it works, at least he'd have to live here, live in this climate, if he knew there were a lot of unresolveds in Serbia, (in the context of these family property-legal relations) of these situations. Then that tax collector has to look and see, first of all, he can't do things that way. He has determined the amount to which it can, depending on what kind of goods it is – the proposer himself, i.e. the Government, answers me, that not accepting this amendment, is not contrary to the Constitution and the law, which it is. If the right of property and the right of private property, something that is uncut and by the letter of the current Constitution and each future, of course, is one category that should not change in that form, something that everyone has to respect in this country. Then how can you vote in favour of such a bill – to enter a property where it is registered with its address tax payer without him owning that property, or property, or household in which he lives? It is, not only a flagrant violation of the Constitution and all other positive legal norms, but in practice, if anyone dares, (and I believe that there are no such people who can apply this law in such a way as to be tax enforcers without knowing all this) that they dare to move and behave in accordance with Article 89 and Article 90. – simply, in practice it will prove that it is not possible. These are just two examples, which I've cited. But I'm telling you, really, in the case of one who won't comply with the tax obligation, and the taxpayer comes to a place, or address where he's registered and where he lives within a household, where there's nothing owned, it can't be done, and this member of the law is practically inapplicable in every sense, as well as in the previous 89.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17516	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I am pleased to say, in my family, ownership and tax relations are clearly defined, and my marital status does not allow for the situation that you have stated. Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17517	Article 18. The bill refers to a member of 101 who has the title "Storage of Moving Things". In all the rules where the enforcement of an administrative act, administrative act or when it comes to a judicial execution, when the execution is carried out over movable matters, and if it is a settlement of a financial claim, then the rule states that a list, assessment, sale and settlement is to be carried out. There are interphases within this. So, after the list and the assessment, it's possible to go to confiscation, or confiscation of movable things, so there may be some interphases in the sales. This has so far been not only in the Law of Conduct, but also in our tax regulations, which in almost identical way regulated the mandatory tax procedure for the achievement of a monetary claim, but in mobile matters. Article 101 is so well-conceived that it includes not only what I have stated, which was a form of a classic execution, but it has included something that has not even been changed, and it is in the first position of that member – a list of moving things on which the pledge was entered for the benefit of the Republic or a procedure for establishing a right to the benefit of the Republic. So, it's an omnibus member that regulates the confiscation of movable matters regardless of the legal basis of tax legislation. In that sense, it's a generic member who regulates it. What's wrong with this article? First, it is no good that the proposer of this law cannot accept that (forever there has been and always will be) in the procedure of forced tax collection an official, regardless of whether it was an perpetrator or someone else, for whatever he does, he must make a record. That obligation comes from the General Administrative Procedure Act, not from this law. You see, with this intervention, the motion to amend this law is now complemented by the words "what the record is about". It's like there's never been a record drawn up before, so it's especially potent that it has to be a record. There's always been a record. What does it apply to? The registered movable matter shall be withdrawn from the taxpayer at the end of the period set out in the members of that and on which the minutes are drawn up. It is now added as an epochal discovery that a record is needed. He's been here before, he had to exist. The following intervention refers to paragraph 3. He says: "Extremely, if there are grounds for doubting that the taxpayer will compromise the mandatory tax collection by hiding, alienating, destroying or making the unusable listed moving matter, including the listed mobile thing on which, in accordance with the law, the hostage right of the Republic was established, before or in the process of forced collection, the matter will be taken away at the moment of the census. The following shows that all of this depends on the assessment, or whether the tax enforcer has a reasonable doubt. Now you can see that, practically, the people who suggested this, they don't work in the IRS at all, they're not in touch with reality, they don't know how hard it is to go somewhere to collect taxes, so people need to take away some moving stuff from the house to make up for someone, let's say, demand. There are several systems or several visions of how all of this can be done without some major problems. If it's a moving thing, when it comes to art, a magic work, or some valuableness, it's listed, evaluated and carried immediately. There's no problem. But there are situations where this is not possible, and in order to prevent tax evasion and in the process of forced tax collection, when it comes to bulky things, and the tax administration is not able to dislocate it, from where it is located somewhere else under the control of the tax administration, then it resorts to one other measure – that it is placed in one room of the taxpayer, it is stamped and thus provides protection of movable things. You don't even want to apply it, a team before, which is a sanction for removing stamps and fillings already a crime, but you like to intimidate people. In the end, you've changed something unnecessarily. You shouldn't have changed your last attitude at all. It says: a record is drawn up about the employees of moving things. There was someone there who wanted to be very smart, so they said, "In the case of the third member's position, there's a record of the list, assessment and confiscation of movable things." You're here to sort it out, and what if you've changed this when you're not aware of the problem of judgment at all? It's easy to write, but how someone will evaluate the work of art, how they're going to evaluate a thing that's not in everyday use, that people who do this job, tax collectors, might not have had a chance to see a thing in their lives, which is similar to being subject to a mandatory tax charge. Therefore, the rules and practices of the general administrative procedure are called for. She's rich, there are solutions. You're about to take care of something, essentially, mutilated this member. That's why we filed this amendment asking to delete Article 18. It's a bill of law. It can only create even more confusion, especially in these things when, it's painful things when you go into an apartment, take away moving things, to collect some taxes that the family couldn't pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17518	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already come to a debate on the enforcement of the mandatory collection of the taxpayer by a law that looks more and more like the Middle Ages. That's what it was about. To Article 19. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS. It refers to Article 104 of the basic Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and regulates how to sell property seized by a taxpayer on the basis of a tax authority's decision and on the basis of an assessment of the value of that property by the tax authority. So far, this job has been exclusively for courts. In the courts of general jurisdiction, as well as in trade courts, you have executive departments, you have judges who make executive decisions. They are, more or less, qualified to do the job, to do the assessment, to organise the sale of these things in accordance with the law that regulates that matter. Now, I guess in that desire to be older than the court itself and the Assembly itself, Dinkic simply makes his tax administration a small army that can break into the public's apartment, take away property and than he who doesn't owe taxes and sell that property in a way, more or less how it fits the tax administration. Therefore, not in a way that corresponds to the actual state and true value of that goods which is the subject of that property and everything else, and the sale. Article 104 states: "Sale of movable things is done through oral public competition or direct contract between the buyer and the Tax Administration", (additional) "what is the conclusion" There are no conditions as to how the direct contract between the buyer and the tax administration is carried out. Does the direct contract have the right to give consent to the taxpayer, because it is still his property. Maybe he knows best what it costs and what it's worth. We all know, and the judicial authorities, whenever they're preying on some mobile or immovable property, a little lower the price of the real and the market, and that's some starting price. However, here it is possible for this initial price to be far less than it really is. The oral public competition, within the meaning of this law, counts for at least two bidders. If there are not at least two bidders in any oral public competition, oral public competition shall be re-advertised within eight days of the date on which the oral public competition was announced, without at least two bidders. This would not be questionable on some side if one of the following views were not looked at as this advertising was carried out, and it was said: "The tax administration will, within five days of the seizure, announce the sale of things on the advertising board." The advertising of sales is done, meaning, on the tax administration’s advertising board (the sale of someone’s property is being advertised). There is only one restriction here that says "if the estimated value of moving things sold through oral public competition is greater than 1,000,000 dinars". So, at that time, he has an obligation to publish himself in a list sold in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, it will be advertised only on the advertising board and thus someone will perform this oral public competition. It will certainly be the goal of the tax enforcer who is doing the job and who is given the opportunity to carry out the assessment of moving things, not referring to any member of the law, not a single opinion, means that he is left with the possibility of determining himself to be 999,000 dinars and something that costs a couple million real, because there is no limit. He's not responsible for anyone's assessment of that property. Next, the sale of seized mobile items is due to expire from, it was 15 days ago, and now it's eight days from the day of the census. What's the rush? So why simply, because it gets the impression that the proposer of this law simply wants to kill the taxpayer. So, to charge him the tax he currently owes him and he no longer cares about his fate. The other day, if not yesterday, we had a debate on counter-guarantees, so we saw that some international financial institutions had written off some of Serbia-Montenegro's debts, i.e. the SRJ. They didn't write it off because someone's smart and beautiful in this government or they're running a program and a policy that fits some professions, because they wrote off to re-indebted. There was no other reason. They were simply aware, if they didn't write it off, we wouldn't be able to return anything to them and we wouldn't be able to get new loans to them. Why don't you go with that logic when it comes to taxpayers, why don't you just leave the man that 15-day term to try to secure the funds to pay taxes and keep his property? Why are you shortening it for eight days? Is it possible that in those eight days, the state will poverty and fail? I agree there are those who don't want to pay and avoid taxes. But they're in the minority. The largest number of taxpayers is due for tax, only because there's no way to pay that tax. We're going now and we're cutting those deadlines from 15 days to 8 days. The following members regulate that moving things cannot be sold at a price below 75% of the estimated value. The tax payer can, by his subjective assessment, reduce the value of the property often and several times, than it really costs. Let us now lead to a situation that, even so reduced from real, is not an initial price, but 70% of that initial price, so it is said, for the second oral competition 50%, and 30%, so it is still possible for moving things to be sold on the first oral public competition for an amount that is less than 75% of the established initial value, or at a price lower than 50% of the established initial value on the second oral public competition, if the taxpayer agrees with it in writing. Again, we are now returning that the tax administration will announce the sale of property on the advertising board in its tax administration. What chance does that poor taxpayer have to sell something for 50%? Simply, with such a kind of advertising, you'll make him accept any offer just to curtulate the misery you brought him into or he'll pay for the ads on the daily papers to sell the property he doesn't already have as expensive as possible. It is still prohibited for the buyer of the disputed asset to sell the same property to the taxpayer or to rent the same property. What's this all about? Is the state calm, did she charge taxes, did she take what she thought belonged to her, why don't you let the man live? Let's get him out of the country, let's take his citizenship, let's not get any more votes because Dinkic owed him taxes. Let's ban him from eating, breathing because he didn't pay taxes when everyone else did. Such regulations, such laws are passed by this congregation. Take care of that, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who will vote for this law. Make your choice closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17520	Thank you. Every day we get closer to the election. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17521	Please have in particular the President's desire to make elections as soon as possible, that's where we're going to help him. Mr. Cholic has submitted the amendment. The amendment applies, in practice, to Article 106. (Laws on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration) and he has the title – "Pressment of immovable property which is not entered in the relevant register". Immobility is probably meant for land and buildings, but I don't know why they wrote this – "which isn't listed in the corresponding register". For the tax procedure, it does not matter whether it is entered or not in a register, because the property tax is paid on all objects, whether it is licensed or not, whether it is registered or not. I don't know why this is particularly potent, unless someone with a note, which they can put in some register when it comes to immobility, is carrying out a form of execution, and when it comes to these unsolicited immovableities, uninformed immovableities, then there's practically nowhere to sign up, so probably that's some reason. I don't understand why they interpreted the immobilization in such a way that it could be effective if that member were added to the new position 5. - "In the case of a Article 4 position, the police are required to provide the requested assistance within the shortest period of time since receiving the call." There's a word with the police that's used in the jargon. If by any chance this letter had been written, he would have seen the Internal Affairs Act, then he would have known that there were employees there, authorized officials. There's no police there. There, an employee at the Ministry of Interior with a uniform or without a uniform can only be an authorised official or someone who is employed and has no authority, and has a different name. You used the words here: "police is due". When you tell the police, you don't know if the minister, whether the ministry, the city's secretaries, the municipal secretariat, is concerned. People who work in the MUP building aren't all authorized officials to do this. There are authorized officials who can use a pendrek, who can use a gun, who can bring in, who can listen, who can expose, authorized official traffic regulators, etc. The younger one said the police had to be there, and you were scared and you said - police. No official face has been authorized. Anyone with the authority gets special paper where it's written to him in which domain he's authorized to apply regulations, intervene and act. It was not enough for you to have an existing formulation that the taxpayer, in the event that he is disturbed by some persons during the execution of an emergency execution, has the right to call the Ministry of the Interior, their organisational unit to ensure that they can do their official job as a tax enforcer in peace. That was not enough for you, but a very imperative, commanding norm in the tax procedure concerning issues regulated by the Internal Affairs Act. The younger one wants to be a police minister, but without changing the Internal Affairs Act. By changing the tax code, and here it is said: "the police are obliged to provide the requested assistance within the shortest time since the reception of the call". Very often, when it comes to the list, the assessment, the sale and the settlement or the eviction of a person, (some person must move out if the immovableity is sold) what you call police officers, they must be present to provide the place. They often shed tears when they see what is done, and they must assist and be present. That is why our regulations contain a provision saying that the competent authority, the MUP and the organisational form that is required to provide assistance to ensure that there are no riots. That formulation wasn't enough for you, but Junior concluded he had to. As soon as the IRS comes along, there's something complicated, and there's got to be a cop. He can't say - I can't provide for a man that day and that day, but let's see the next day. It's got to be if the taxpayer assesses that he might have problems. Of course there will be problems if he throws his wife, children, and man out of the house, of course he'll have problems. In doing so, remind Junior that in 2003 the Law on lustration was passed in this Assembly. I must tell you that if you apply this provision you fall under the provisions of the Lustration Act, because you are aware of the consequences and are aware that the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act cannot prescribe the rules of conduct of the MUP. This reminds you because I know a mistake will be made, perhaps unconsciously, but a mistake will surely be made. If the regulation governing the tax procedure and the tax administration is then focus on what is contained in that area and what is covered by that matter. Provisions of a secondary character, commanding, as it turns out by dictation, avoid it, because they seem first offensive to the MUP. It would be perfectly natural for Jocic's reaction – who is this Mladjan Dinkic to now preach to me in his law how my officers will do and what they will do. With a lot of rights, because they communicate with each other on the principles of equality and shared jurisdiction, you know exactly who is in charge of what is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. For one of these standards, you'd have to show us the consent of the M.O.P. if it were okay to put this in because they allegedly don't have time to change the Internal Affairs Act, etc. But you didn't even ask the MUP. I'm just surprised you didn't sign up for planes and rockets here. At the invitation of Mladjan Dinkic, the Helicopter Unit of the Yugoslav Army runs over an object that needs to be seized, and then that general of the Air Force says: I have no fuel, but I have to follow orders, to provide helicopters because the younger one wrote in the tax law – rockets and hoodies will be used in the collection process. I don't know, arrange some paperwork before you send them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17522	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17523	This amendment concerns, in practice, Article 109. Tax code and tax administration. The paper is that one attitude is changed and refers to the forced sale of immovable property: "Immobility can be sold on the first oral public tender for less than 75% of the established initial value, or at a price lower than 50% of the established initial value, on the second oral public competition, if the taxpayer is agreed in writing". It's the same principle as selling moving things. So, with the tax debtor's consent, a lower price can be achieved. But I don't know why it was necessary to put this into this bill. So here's why I'm potentialing this. In this process, everything depends on how the assessment will be carried out, whether it is a moving or immovable matter, who will carry out the assessment and how high the assessment will be. If the assessment is of a quality, it is likely that public competition has some meaning, since in public competition, it is usually going to achieve a higher price than the one being led as a starter. It is always in these procedures when sold, whether it is mobile or immovable, that, after the sale and settlement of the tax administration, there remains something to be handed over to the taxpayer. If you think this provision can make it easier for a taxpayer who's worried about whether or not he's closed the tax code. He entered the mandatory payment procedure because he has no funds. He will somehow be interested in closing it as soon as possible, so as not to be burdened by interest or the cost of the procedure, and when it is advertised twice, it is certainly costs. You here pro forms give the taxpayer the right to participate in the public competition process in some way, and in fact you pressure the taxpayers to sell the real estate as cheaply as possible, knowing that the job is not done in an estimated way. When I say an estimate, it doesn't mean that it's viewed by size, the unit measures in other ways, but every locality has its own specificity. It is likely that somewhere in Belgrade, one ar is not three thousand euros, but in Valjevo there is three thousand euros in one ar. There's a difference. Not to mention the price of agricultural land in Vojvodina, but in Machva it is several times more expensive, and even in some places in Šumadia, which are closer to populated cities and cities. So this local factor is very significant, and that's the market factor and everything depends on the assessment. You want a supposed objective norm, where you're going to cover the lack of wrong estimates in such a way that, if you have to and twice, you have to go to a public competition, and then the tax debtor by system is going to get sick of it all over his head to say it; I'm willing to sell it for a reason, only that I have no more connections with Mladjan Dinkic. That's the whole point. I don't see why you changed this when it could have been without any change. You've had something like this before. If by any chance the taxpayer had been involved in the process of assessing that man was wondering, you'd have bought that machine and how much you paid for it, (as many years as it's been, it's got some depreciation) you'd have gotten to the correct assessment. No, here you go by force, force and ultimate instance is, you force a man's consent to accept that and below value, meaning less than 75% of the initial value of the immovableity is sold. You have to bear in mind, that depending on localities, urban conditions and other things, it's not as simple as you've imagined and here you've written this manipulation, not in a negative sense the meaning of words manipulation, but simple transfer and manipulation, working with these immovableities. You've got that all wrong. You have a situation where urban regulations forbid you to do anything. The regulations on the protection of cultural goods will prohibit you. But I know, you now have the strength, you want to fill the budget, you want to provide resources in every way possible, you give as much rigorous tax regulations as possible, as rigorously as possible, a procedure in which there are no people and you don't appreciate a man – you simply don't realize that there is a situation where an objective man is not able to pay taxes. When I say man, I mean a business subject and a physical person, and I take everything down on a man, because everything that's done in this congregation is about human rights. You've put the economy in a position that she can't, and if she wanted to, she wouldn't be able to meet her obligations. Then comes Mladji's whip that needs to work it out. He can't handle it like that. Regardless of this is not a principle debate, you must also know the motives for which we are trying to prevent you from making these changes to the IRS, because in these changes you don't see people, you see only the conto – taking the giving, exiting the IRS, looking for debt. If you're just looking at the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, then you're on the wrong track and it's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17524	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 27 amends Article 131 of the Basic Law, which regulates the measures of temporary ban on the exercise of activity during tax control. The proposal to amend and supplement this law provides for a ban on the performance of up to 60 days. In the current Law, this measure with a duration of up to 30 days is foreseen, and these amendments provide for an increase of up to 60 days. It's too much authority for a tax inspector to exercise control. The basic text of the law lists four situations in which the tax inspector may impose that measure on the exercise of activity for up to 60 days. Among other things, this is stated – during tax control, the inspector may express this collection if the entrepreneur does not have credible documents and documents when providing his services and selling goods. The documentation can also be at the headquarters of companies, especially companies that have their own business units across the country. So, if the company has retail, wholesale, branched out a network of its own organisational units around the country, and it's possible that the documentation is not in one place, but that it's being differentiated. This does not mean that it should express such a rigorous measure as a ban on performance. Another reason is the non-payment of the daily market, the third reason is the engagement of persons who do not have an employment contract. This intertwines the tax inspector’s and labour inspector’s authority to control whether all employees of any economic operator have a labour contract or other legal basis to do their job in the company. I see no reason why the tax inspector would establish and express such a rigorous measure, such as the ban on doing business for up to 60 days. The fourth reason is if the transport of goods and services is not registered via the fiscal register. All the reasons set out in the basic text of the law, where there has only been a tightening of the degree of termination of activity and increased from 30 to 60 days, are too strict for economic operators, needless and make it difficult for them to work. All of this can be regulated, first of all, if it is milder forms of violations and commercial offences, it regulates warnings, and if it is difficult forms, it can be regulated by fines. The very measure of banning the exercise of activity makes it difficult for the economic operator to operate, and it will surely suffer enormous material damage by banning the exercise of activity, so that the additional fine is absolutely not necessary, because it is fined enough by not being able to carry out its basic economic activity within 60 days. Such a tax procedure and such a tax administration is not aided by economic operators, but rather by getting away from and being brought, on an unwarranted basis, into an extremely difficult position. That doesn't mean taxpayers should be allowed to do whatever they want. Of course there must be tax discipline, that taxpayers must pay taxes according to their economic strength. The state must rigorously control whether the tax is paid neatly, but the state must not be at any time a disturbance for economic operators to carry out their economic activity uninterruptedly. With this extension of the operating ban up to 60 days, the direct state has an impact on the business of operators. In addition, in paragraph 2. The draft amending and supplementing the law provides for a ban on the exercise of activity of the taxpayer, which is also pronounced for the business premises of the taxpayer, in which irregularities are found during tax controls. There's a problem. If the company has its own business units in several cities, the headquarters is located in one place, (business units are located in several cities) there may be a situation where, during tax control, the inspector determines certain irregularities in the seat of the economic operator itself. If position 2 were to be applied literally, it would be prohibited to exercise activity at the headquarters of the company, if the business units could work, which is illogical. Such an economic operator could not function if the business units continued to operate and the seat of the economic operator was determined by a measure of temporary ban on performance. We think these measures are extremely restrictive to economic operators and nothing will help them. The effects of tax collection will be very low compared to the degree of the threatened sanctions provided for in this law. Sanctions may be subject to a certain limit to have effect and to produce certain results, and when those limits are crossed, they become counterproductive and do not bring about the effects that the Proposer had in mind when he proposed amendments and amendments to this law. That is why we believe that an already existing solution is better than what has been proposed by amendments and additions, and we believe that an amendment of the SRS should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17526	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. Namely, Article 29. item 1. The bill says: "In Article 134 paragraph 1 after the words "it is due", the words "to determine the value of the things taken away" are added, and after the words "minister" the point and the words are deleted until the end. After Article 1 adds a new position 2 which reads: The value of the items in Item 1 of this Article shall be determined at the level of the purchase price of the things taken away, i.e. the cost of costing those or similar things at the time of confiscation." In the next position of Article 29. The draft law on amendments and additions to the law states: "The current section 2 to 4 becomes pages 3 to 5." The following is said again: "The current position 5, which becomes item 6, is changed and it is said: Public sales of taken things from Article 4 of this article are carried out through oral public competition on which the taken things cannot be sold at a price below 80% of their estimated value, and corrupt goods at a price below 50% of their estimated value." The following point is said: "After the attitude of Article 5, which becomes heading 6, is addedv. 7 and 8 which reads: The Government shall regulate the procedure with the taken away from this article in the event that the things taken away are not sold on repeated ordnances, under the conditions laid down in Article 6 of this Article, within three months of the eligibility of the solution referred to in Article 133(1) of this Law, or after the completion of the procedure initiated in accordance with the provisions of Article 138 of this Act". The final position of Article 29. The bill of amendments and the addition of the Law says: "A buyer of taken things cannot be a taxpayer, a person employed in the Tax Administration and associated persons". The SRS considers that Article 29. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration should be deleted. We believe that the existing law is a better solution and it is in Article 29 that the nature of this bill, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly, is visible. Based on the solution to the measures, in Article 133 of the existing Law, and when we talk about this bill, it is settled by Articles 26 to 29. We believe that, in this way, by proposing a solution to such a proposal for amending and supplementing the law, too many powers are given to the tax administration, which ultimately assumes the role of both legislative and judicial authorities. We believe that the law should regulate exactly and separate the legislative and judicial authority, what is provided for in the Constitution. After all, the tax authorities thus rose above the executive and judicial authorities. That's the essence of the SRS amendment. That's why we consider this Article 29. The bill should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17528	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, MP Petar Jojic, the government suggests that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes that the amendment not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17529	If the logic managed by the motionor were to be applied, that is, to clarify and make an even more rigorous provision of Article 135. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and as far as the IRS is concerned, he did it. It is even mentioned here, I interpret: "To detect tax crimes and their perpetrators, the tax police in a pre-criminal procedure can act as an internal affairs authority and are authorized to, in accordance with the law"... "takes the requested actions, except for the restrictions on movement." It's the police. I don't know how we can devalue the Code of Criminal Procedure with one tax code. That's forbidden. If this logic were applied, then customs could arrest, hear, lead investigators, ask, to work, etc. According to that logic, it could probably be the administrative inspection, the budget inspection, which controls the budgets. If they were to draw such conclusions by that logic, then anyone in this country could arrest anyone who works in the state service. Anyone could have the status of internal affairs authorities in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates so-called. Pre-crisis proceedings, because I don't see why a budget inspection wouldn't have what the IRS has. I don't see why customs wouldn't have what the IRS has. I don't believe why the inspectors or employees of the Public Procurement Authority couldn't do the same thing, the Public Payments Authority. Then you can give it to all the agencies. Here, this radio difuze, she could wear uniforms to take down the transmitters, bring them in. You can imagine they're bringing Karic in, something about the frequency is wrong. He can't, people. He can't! A pre-crisis procedure, known to be conducted only by the internal affairs authority, and all other inspections are in contact with the internal affairs authorities. After all, everyone else has an obligation to expose crimes, but if they suspect there is something, there is a record of control, the Ministry of the Interior is being forwarded to the internal affairs body that is taking on further affairs, if it considers that there is something to be criminal charges, until the prosecutor looks and says, "compliment me, etc." All inspection bodies are practically on that same path. They help the internal affairs authority, which is the only one empowered to conduct a pre-crisis procedure. One minister cannot say – I would like my officers to have the powers of the Code of Criminal Procedure in terms of pre-criminal authority. It can't. That's what Djelic put out here on his own misery in 2002. He wanted guns, guns, security, hoodies, whatever he wanted. Well, he wanted Djelic, so there he is - walking. You're looking for more, so you'll be walking too soon. You take care of it, too. You can't do that. The legal order of the country is being violated. The fact that Mladjan Dinkic, as a politician, as an assistant, as a governor, as a minister abused some of his official powers, so he indulged to comment on some things, it is not a rapper. It's an exception. You can't do that. To make his wishes come true, his political views, let's give him the police. Then let's open up a special prison for holding a prison sentence for crimes of tax evasion, so the whole world would laugh at us. Tell me, where does something like this exist on the globe of the Earth? In a system like this or a system like ours, it doesn't exist, it can't exist. Then in the end, I didn't want to read everything because this is tragic that you wrote. He says, "The form and manner of co-operation of the 5th member's position will deal with the finance minister and the interior minister in an agreed manner." Of course, it's associated with some collaboration that might exist. Co-operation must exist. Co-operation exists. Co-operation is also prescribed by the Internal Affairs Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure and other regulations. But now you're making your own special party police, as a tax police officer, who's going to do everything just as soon as he can't deprive himself of his freedom, so you're still asking that the DA accepts the tax officer as a representative of the Internal Affairs Authority. That's impossible. In the act of regulating the case, the prosecutor is acting under the Code of Criminal Procedure. When it comes to jurisdiction under the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Regulation of Courts, it applies criminal law – one republican or fundamental, as it is called. He must have insight and insight into the Internal Affairs Act. It's a whole gauge of regulations regarding his work. When a tax matter appears to him that he would represent the charge properly, he consults the tax police, the tax administration to explain to him what this item means, to know that he is interpreting your record, as an initial act based on which the internal affairs authority carried out some investigative actions, vehemently vehemently enlightened, and determined who was responsible. But since you don't know, since you want to do all this quickly, then in the next members, where you prescribe crimes, I won't tell you about it, because others will talk about it, says – who is going to achieve it. And who's that? How are you going to determine your intention? How are you going to determine the intention of someone in a company with 2,000 employees; where there is a service, 50 people who do only tax documentation and one director who is authorized to sign, who can once or five times a year sign something that the service gives him. Who was going to do that? How are you going to determine that intention? Where do you get the right to prescribe crimes in every law? If that's how it works, then we don't need a criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17530	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment Mr. Jojic? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nemanja Sharovi, the Government, proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes that the amendment should not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17531	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at least those who are in the O.R., of course thanks to Mr Markovic's phenomenal proposal for Rules of Procedure and the G17 Plus MP group, we are now, if they show it at all, in a position to see how the National Assembly is doing now. But it will certainly come time for citizens in the next election to assess who was working, who was right and about the draft of this Rules of Procedure, and of course all these draft laws that you bomb us. Today, once again, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is on the agenda. I say, once again, because it's, I don't know any more times, probably fifth or sixth in the past few years to discuss it in the National Assembly about this law. Perhaps, when you talk about the efficiency of Parliament's work, you should think about these things, not only say, we have passed as many laws as possible, because the laws in the world in civilised and democratically developed countries are not measured by kilograms, nor can they be assessed by the number of laws that have been passed. Perhaps, however, you should think a little bit better about the adoption of the law, especially when deciding on amendments submitted by the representatives of the SRS, because this is how it happens for us to discuss the same law over and over again every few months, so that what you do not accept, through our amendments, through three months, you are installing a new draft law on amendments and additions. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the SRS submitted an amendment to Article 33. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. I asked this amendment to delete Article 33, because it was the only way in which it was possible to prevent the entry into the legal system of something that you proposed to this member, and you suggested that Article 173a be added after 173a, which practically and essentially one tax law, prescribes a new criminal offence. Several forms of committing this crime are prescribed, easier and more difficult. The penalty is also prescribed, so it is said that whoever intends to exercise the right to an unfounded refund of taxes and tax credit will be charged with tax returns of untrue content in which the amount of return amounts greater than 100,000 dinars will be fined by a prison of six months to five years and fines. Article 2 provides for a more difficult form of execution of this crime and says that "If the amount is paid for the refund and tax credit is greater than 3,000,000 dinars, the perpetrator will be punished by prison of one to ten years and fines". Article 3 states that, both the entrepreneur and the responsible person in the taxpayer for criminal offences referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article will also be given a security measure to prohibit the performance of independent activity, call or duty from one to five years. This way you continue to destroy this country's legal system. When this government was elected in the exposé, you said that one of the basic things that you're up for would also be the precise demarcation of the area, that already once we know which law regulates the tax system, which laws regulate the areas of criminal law and criminal liability. For this reason, it has been promised to pass a criminal code in which, in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, all crimes will be covered and regulated, due to the bad consequences observed; crimes are regulated in practically countless laws, leading to the impossible follow-up of crimes, especially for those who are not lawyers. Most people who deal with certain business activities or self-employed activities are not lawyers. In order to simplify both the criminal system and the general legal system, it has been said that those crimes that have been regulated by some other laws will be covered by Criminal Law and will be deleted in those laws. You're doing exactly the opposite. Malten, every law we have on the agenda includes a new crime. You are, in practice, revoking everything that was done in the codification of criminal law compared to that and devalue the Code of Criminal Procedure by prescribing specific rules and detecting criminal acts related to the tax area. We've heard that you've also provided for a 135th member of the special tax police force who would practically be no different from the internal affairs authorities that are now doing the job. This member is contradictory. You say, for example, that – the tax police, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing criminal proceedings, can call and hear the suspect, including his forced bringing, although previously in paragraph 2 you say that the tax police can take all the necessary actions, except for restrictions on movement. I'm asking you how it's possible for you to force someone somewhere without limiting their movement. You'll either make up your mind about one thing or the other. If coercion is necessary, it also implies some measures that could be taken so far only by internal affairs authorities, such as the deprivement of freedom, putting and taking certain measures, which limit the movement, cuffing, application of force or anything else. Because of all this, I think it would be good to accept this amendment to the SRS. Stick to what you've declared your goal and the principles you'll be handling in your work, as long as this government lasts. To give these privileges to tax inspectors and to transfer practically one good piece from the police department's work to the department of finance, I think it is neither in accordance with the Government Act nor in accordance with the Ministry Act, where it is explained in a precise way what, who is in the jurisdiction of which ministry and what the ministry will carry out in the next period. I don't think this is going to do any good to those who work in the IRS. I don't think these people are dressed or paid to do police work. These are people who have completed other schools, which in this area probably have (except those that you brought in in the previous year or two) a great experience. That is why you cannot force someone who is 15, 20 or more years of employment (who is hired to perform one duty and to work in a tax authority), you cannot requalified him as a police officer in this way. Make him act in a completely different way now, to do another job, and I say for the sake of those who are employed in the tax authorities, and certainly for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest you once again consider this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17532	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17533	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, by proposing that Article 34 be deleted. This article 34. The law provides for drastic punishment. Dear People's MPs, I can say as a practitioner and as a longtime lawyer, that for one part, or a significant part of the crime that was prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act, the sentence of up to one year is threatened, and therefore surprises this high-profile penalty for taxpayers. So, the promoter dared to punish taxpayers, threaten them with fines, up to one year. The tax administration is given the authority it should not have, given the role of legislative authority, judicial authority. Finally, I can say that this matter (and should not) cannot be regulated by this special law, but must be codified and regulated by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. This really is a senseless law and a member of which taxpayers will be punished by one year, which is inappropriate. That's why I suggest that this amendment of mine be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17534	I hope that we will all be responsible together and that the criminal law will already be on the agenda in September or October, just as you suggest. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We are moving to the 31st item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending law and amendments to the Customs Law (specificity) You have adopted an amendment which has been submitted by the Legislative Committee on the Proposal of the Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Pause until 15.30 p.m., when we start discussing the 32nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act and we will work until the debate is completed in particular under this law. [[After break – 15,40]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Once again, my apologies for being two minutes late. We'll continue the afternoon course of the session. We move to the 32nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE FOR THE CARINSKA TARFI (data) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Radojle Bukvić, together Milan Nikolić and Jovan Todorovic, together Brance Stojanović, Milomir Minić and Hranislav Perić, together Milomir Minić and Rajko Baralić, Vojislav Mihailović, Veroljub Stevanović, Miloš Dišić, Lazar Čaić, Radiša Ilić, Jovan Daja, Dragan Čolić, Stojan Cvetković, Prvoslav Savić, Zoran Mašić, Vitomir Plužarić, Stevica Djeđanski, Milorad Jojić, Srđo Komažec, Sreto Perić, Ljubomir Kragović, Miljko Stević, Miljko Štović, Miljko Štović, Milić, Milić, Zlatović, Zlatović and Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Šović, Žalić, Žović, Žalić, Žović, Žović, Šović, Šović, Vović, Vović, Štić. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. I suppose the board members and the additional notice that warns us that, unfortunately, one part of these tariffs is necessarily in line with the need to preserve preferences, above all, when it comes to textiles, agricultural products, sugar and other, which explains the harmonisation of customs tariffs before the start of negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. My great understanding of what we're going to take care of, I hope. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to Section 1 of the amendment by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Customs Tariff Bill. Section I — Live animals, products of animal origin, Chapter 1. — Live animals, in headings 0102 90 21 00, 0102 90 29 00, to replace customs rate 15 with rate 30. In my explanation, I was very clear. I felt and thought that the government would understand this amendment, as well as any amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. There seems to be no understanding. My argument is that the previous policy of the previous government with uncontrollable imports of live cattle, meat, meat, meat processing, milk and milk processing has had a devastating impact on domestic livestock funds that are completely underprivileged. The solutions proposed by this amendment protect domestic agricultural producers from uncontrolled imports of these products and prevent their further poverty and destruction. To then arrive at a response to my amendment from the Serbian government that says "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that further increase in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries." Gentlemen, what is it from animals that we can export, when we know that our stock fund has been decimated since 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and now in 2005. Absolutely, (and I can responsibly claim as a member of the Committee on Agriculture) nothing has been done to help those who are involved in the cultivation of tow-heroes, the breeding of tow pigs, but there has been a general absurde. At one point, a pig farmer, approximately, between 13 and 15 kilos, gets 3,000 dinars, so that he who deals with further cargo should invest certain funds, so that the pig (as we say "name") can reach a weight of 25 to 30 kilograms. He needs to get a concentrate that weighs up to 105, 120 kilos, i.e. what we once called the JUS quality. If a pig that costs 3,000 dinars and has 15 kilos in it, and a 100-pound wounded is 9.000,00 dinar, where there is stimulation for farmers, which is why customs are introduced. It is thought of those who export, whether it will be a state combination, a social one, whether it will be private farmers in the breeding of such heroes or in the breeding of tow pigs. But it seems the Ministry of Agriculture is not interested. It is very interesting to say, did this Europe wonder when they imposed sanctions on us after 2000 how many years we would be able to solve this problem of livestock, so that we could be what we used to be in that Europe? However, this destroyed and decimated stock fund with this view of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, Mr Dinkic, we will not be far away, nor will we be near the European Union. So these laws you've proposed, customs tariff laws, they won't mean much to us. These are the laws that you make us, i.e. Those who export, you make them do what they shouldn't do. Today, a farmer, a farmer or a farmer who deals with a mini farm or a mega farm, should be allowed (the Ministry of Finance in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture) to do its job, to grow, not to import meat from Brazil. If we know that there are hundreds of mini and mega farms in our home, there's no need to import. However, the lobby that continues to rule in our government thinks it is necessary to import Bosnia, (which is bearing here) we import cucumbers and tomatoes and some other vegetable products, which is what Serbia and Vojvodina are known for. However, I couldn't help but say something interesting, given that this is connected to the Ministry of Agriculture. Gentlemen, it's simply impossible to believe, let's say, the Norwegian government wants to meet a city in Vojvodina, Kikinda, (because Kikinda is gathered with Narvik) The government of Norway wants to help a future cooperative, which will be under the Norwegian system, worth 150,000 euros. It is very interesting that the Ministry of Agriculture, headed by Ivana Dulic-Markovic, will not sign one such project and the money goes where it should. It doesn't matter if it's a town in southern Serbia, north of Serbia, Vojvodina, west or east, it's important that the money is accepted rather than rejected. What is interesting is to say behind the pay phone – we are waiting for the harvest of barley to begin literally without a drop of diesel. Since there was no agreement between the Ministry of Finance, Energy and Mining and a certain lobby, you well know who this lobby refers to, there could be no increase in fuel prices. The wheat harvest comes with an increase in fuel prices. But this time is coming. Some would have already done something, or 30% of the total sown area would have been used specifically only if they had had that unfortunate diesel. What happens next? On the Committee on Agriculture, we are told that this government will not and does not want to worry about the purchase of wheat, (not interested in the guaranteed price of wheat, not interested in ransom), they are simply interested in other things. How to introduce what we already produce?- I'm sorry. And why don't we do what we produce in those countries with which we can have trade relations? These are: China, Russia, India, these are the countries of the Arab world, etc. That's where we failed our first exam, and that exam will certainly cost us dearly. Gentlemen, the peasant is on the verge of destruction. This customs tariff law doesn't improve your position, but you're just looking to destroy it even more, to destroy those who deal with production and who own a mini-mega farm, whether they're tolls, tow pigs, whether they're tow heroes, that doesn't interest you, or the ministry doesn't care. It is important that you respect what you have said here – the amendment is not accepted for reasons why further increasing customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries. I'm just afraid not to show up in this customs tariff another Kostic, so that we don't lose what's been returned to us because of those malversions that have been buzzing on TV and in the newspaper, between Mr. Labus, now Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Miodrag Kostic. Once again, please take this amendment to the customs tariff law in front of the MPs of the SRS seriously. I think that ministers should be better, better quality and more skilled to deal with, to deal with the government, that this law is fully amended and that those standards and even European Union norms will probably be met.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17537	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic. Please once again, a whole series of amendments has been submitted with many clear reasons and reasons, such as those cited by Mr. Christin. But just once again, please, it's something this assembly voted on a few months ago and made it possible for us to get preferences. So it's a threat. Any increase beyond the peace clause implies losing preferences. We export to the European Union more than 40% of all products and that's just the notice we've all received and I thank you once again for your full understanding. Here you go, Mr. Rafael.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17538	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a previous colleague who spoke, and I, mostly on the Committee on Agriculture, have similar opinions. So they don't differ much, but I think there's been a lot of misunderstanding here. I think he knew a colleague of mine what was going on with the preferences, the heights of customs and protective measures. It doesn't matter. One thing we need to know, which is, that farms, large farms that were raised by the Green Plan or some other way were emptied 10 years ago, is since then it's rarely started. In the meantime, a lot of inaccuracy has been said here. Let's just say, since 2000, we've only had a short period of low prices of pigs, live pigs, so ransom. Mostly these prices are good today. So that shows how much import it is. We remember in 2000 how imported meat was from Brazil and how difficult it was to stop that meat. Remember what happened in the Raska area when the Ministry of Finance and the customs authorities tried to introduce one more rigorous control. You have seen what the people of the Zlatibor County say, that their famous ham, known in the world and in Europe, because of such meat that in previous years found a great foothold in the various lobbyes that imported it, but these lobbies were not made by Miroljub Labus or Mr Dinkic or anyone who has now come. Right now, the most difficult fight against such people who have learned to do what they want, and that's why they're constructing new affairs. As far as exports are concerned, another incorrect data -- at the moment agriculture is the best export branch in Serbia. Only agriculture has surpluses over imports. So there are no deficits like other branches, and of course, it could be much better and it would be much better. There are many things to be done, from customs laws that need to allow for a more free flow of goods to be imported. But it's not just the problem, the problem is the quality of the goods that are being imported and the problem is the people who are in control. So, as far as the situation is concerned, this team, this government, these MPs of the ruling majority, as before, didn't come because the people said they couldn't do without them. They have just come to the collapse of the predecessors of the assembly and previous governments, which have led Serbia to this stage of its arrival. You know very well, colleague, how difficult it is to put the household on its feet. Ten hosts in one village cannot put that household on its feet in a short period of time. Imagine what it's like for the new government? Mostly what's important, agriculture needs to fix the credit system, it needs to change the way that young peasants can easily get to credit, to prevent tycoons from coming to credit, who made their own systems for it. One thing in which we fully agree - there is no excuse for any government, nor for this one that has no elevator, especially in the harvest season. It's got to be fixed. I've already taken some steps. It feels a little better, but it's not good, and we totally agree. Anyway, so there's no confusion, no one in this House is without being in power. There are no parliamentary groups that have not participated in the government in one way or another. I'm surprised at just one thing and it's going to be a question, since I see that there will be replications – why this knowledge and everything you say at the pay phone didn't show when you were in power. I am sure that then the ruling majority, the Socialists would accept all good proposals, even Slobodan Milosevic. I'm just surprised you didn't know at the time, and now all of a sudden you know everything. To be clear, the people know well what the story is, what are constructive suggestions and what is demagogy. I understand what the opposition's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17539	Thank you, Mr. Rafaelovich. No one wants another word on the amendment. Replica, Mr. Krstin is personally mentioned, and then we'll move on to Mr. Dedjanski's amendment if the replication ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it was said to have been so good, let's remind ourselves of last year -- 100 kilos of corn could have been taken at the market for 1,400 dinars, and today for 700 dinars. What's the difference? Is it in quality? Listen well, Rafael, don't you know later. Gentlemen, what to say is that in one previous period one regulation is valid for a month and Mr Matijević comes out on the basis of this regulation – cleans Italian stock reserves, I mean dry meat products and other things, brought here to Serbia and reduced the price of live cattle. Is that true? Yes, it is! The regulation was for a month. As far as the sugar tail preferences are concerned, we all know that. Gentlemen, Mr. Labus said that the organisation in charge of corruption and crime in Serbia, an organisation called Olaf, was here and explained three reasons why we lost the right to export sugar. The first reason she was staying in a hotel where the bugs were. Gentlemen, there are cockroaches in every hotel?- I'm sorry. He says, "No, they were listening." The second reason is because Mr. Miodrag Kostic did not want to allow an insight into the export documentation. Don't I get that kind of financial police next to the M.O.P., the S.U.P.D., etc.? Are we in no condition to stand in the way of one Miodrag Kostic?- I'm sorry. Third, he goes to Koville to interrogate three or four or five workers. They admitted to repacking the sugar. That's three reasons. And you were at that meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, when the Deputy Prime Minister explained it, but he had asked the press out of the O.R. before. Did I lie to you about that? I didn't do anything. What's going on with the stock reserves, gentlemen? Please, 18 billion are required by individual entities: private enterprises, state, non-state, etc. They are obliged to export wheat, agricultural products 18 billion, and the agricultural budget is 22 billion. Gentlemen, divide only 18 billion, let the wheat be seven and it can't be 9.5, it's seven dinars, you see how many thousands of tons can be bought out of wheat. Where are the stock reserves now to buy her out? Now there's nothing in the stock reserves and it should buy the stock reserves. There's 18 billion missing, they're gone. Gentlemen, have we faced the Committee on Agriculture the Public Prosecutor's Office and the people from the stock reserve? They accuse one another of what they have said. The public prosecutor says, "You will not come and testify against them, but this one is lying. You are being sued by a reserve of goods." In the end, we get a list of all those who have been punished for God's sake, which was top secret. Please be nice, most punished is one director, who's been punished for two years, paroled for six months. Is that the attitude towards a peasant? Is that the relationship between a state and a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17541	The word is Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17542	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I raised my hand immediately after Mr. Rafaelovic's discussion was completed, and I report to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 101. Rules of Procedure. I would like to refer my attention to certain statements made here by Mr Rafaelovic, related above all to the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, the export of agricultural products in the past period. First, the Ministry of Agriculture does not meet what they planned in relation to the presented plan and work programme for this year. First, let's start with the legislation. This year it is planned to pass 14 laws and that is: the crucial, the crucial and the important ones in this area. So far, as you know, only three have been brought in, and none are still in the process, and at least a few should have been in this first half of the year. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture, within the framework of this presented plan and work programme, should have adopted a national strategy for the agriculture programme in the Republic of Serbia, to develop a strategy for the processing sector, to develop a strategy for forestry and a strategy for the development of the advisory service. None of these strategies so far, the Ministry of Agriculture has, at least, reproduced, not announced to the public, nor presented it to the Committee on Agriculture. Furthermore, as regards agricultural exports, the Agricultural Budget for this year was planned by the government and the Ministry of Agriculture about 600 million dinars as an incentive to export agricultural products. We do not know how much of these funds are realised as incentives, but it is clear that there is still little export of agricultural products that are, as a surplus, on our market. If a few days ago, the Ministry of Agriculture provided information that we have about 530,000 tonnes of wheat, (that's from last year's generation, and every day the harvest of new wheat) and asked the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture: why didn't it bother to use the same incentive funds they planned in the export-enhancing budget, incentivise the export of that market surplus that they projected on some 150 to 200,000 tonnes circus, thus creating what kind of opportunity to buy out a new crop of wheat. Thus, it is simply a complete uncertainty among agricultural producers whether or not this year's wheat harvest will be bought. Finally, a billion dinars were planned in the same Agrarian budget for wheat subsidisation. Not even the dinars of these funds are distributed to agricultural producers. I wonder why it's not divided? Now the billion dinars are being offered as possible means to subsidise the storage of the crops of this year's wheat, as it is certain to the government and the Ministry that such a run agrarian policy will be a major problem with this year's wheat generation. (President: Time.) ) It has been offered, at least on the Committee on Agriculture, that this billion dinars could be used for the subsidized storage of that wheat. (President: Time.) ) Not to say that we have meat and meat processing surpluses, as well as milk and that something slightly exported is only in the surrounding countries. It is far from being competitive and that we can appear on the European market, although we are permanent and we advocate that market and we are trying to lay down regulations for that market. Unfortunately, however, we are far from that market and competitiveness with meat, milk and meat and milk products, but also where we could export, we do not export enough of these products. Unfortunately, due to limited time, and I have already exceeded, I cannot explain everything I thought or disprove what Mr. Rafaelovic said, but thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17543	Mr. Masic, do you want to get this out of the stenogram as a parliamentary issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia? So you want it to be a parliamentary question. The word has the People's MP Rafaelovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17544	I'm very glad I don't have to deny anything, because my colleague Mašić has disproved himself. I'll start with what he said. So he mentioned that 14 laws were planned and only three passed. He knows very well, since he runs the Committee with me, in fact, he is the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, that as far as the Ministry, the debates and the Assembly and outside the Assembly are concerned, let's say, the Veterinary Act was carried out at the Institute of the Great Plan. So the Ministry did everything and sent bill proposals, and they didn't come to the agenda, that's the problem of timing and all that's going on with some other important laws. But it doesn't matter. Another thing that should not be denied at all is that the Ministry did not bring a strategy for agricultural production. My colleague, you forgot that at the board meeting, I think it was in Fruška Gora, in principle supported, unanimously voted, (there is a record) a strategy of agricultural production offered to the public. I don't know what you're talking about. You're saying there's been a little export of agricultural products. Well, agriculture is the only one with a surplus. The only thing that's being imported right now is maybe more than it should be, it's out of the season of vegetables and fruit, but the citizens want it. We can't leave them without tomatoes in winter and without bananas, lemons or oranges in winter, when it's flu season, etc. In addition, I would point out to you that there is only now a perspective for good exports of agricultural products, because, if you noticed, the President of the United States, Mr Bush, signed that Serbia has gained the status of the most privileged nation in exports. You're saying that a billion dinars from the budget are not divided into peasants. My colleague, when you talk, I keep silent and listen, when I feel the need, I go out for a pay phone, I act civilized, like a MP. So, a billion dinars are not allocated to peasants from the budget. We made a recommendation to the ministry a few days ago, together again, uniquely, that these funds were allocated to the lending of the ransom and to the storage of wheat, which, due to the rain and this, is in such a state of moisture as it is. As far as this first part is concerned, I don't think there's any need, but let me remind you. For sugar, you know what happened. I'll just remind you that I didn't know or hear about Mr. Kostic and all the other tycoons in 1985-1986. I didn't even know those people existed. Back in the '90s, when I started doing politics, they grew up and became a force. You also know who put the most effort into it. It is known, this government, headed by a vice president who was tasked with restoring the sugar export preferences. That's what Mr. Labus did. We again have preferences for exporting sugar to the EU. As for meat imports, I'll remind you again... (President: Please allow the speaker to finish, and you bring the end, due to time. I understand that truth hurts and that it often responds to it, but just to say that the prices always say what the imports are like. Now look at the price of living cattle in ransom. They talk about how much meat is imported. So the prices are good. I, believe it or not, end up giving pigs, back there in 1994, 1995, 1996, in 1997, giving to my friends, because I didn't have an account to give to a 100-pound concubine for 100 marks, but I gave to my friends who deserved it and with whom I was good. So the prices talk about it. Imports are much smaller than they used to be, and Serbia wants to go to Europe and we should slowly prepare our peasants, including myself, to learn to compete in a free competition. (President: Time.) ) We have a much bigger problem than this, and this has relaxed the old Serbian village! I think the energy, knowledge and ideas you have together need to be directed in that direction to bring young people back to the country. We will easily achieve unity on the Committee on Agriculture, but we also need support from parliamentary groups and the whole public life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17545	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, I don't think I'm going to go out on this same thing anymore for the pay phone, but I still have to, the truth is, to deny some of the things Mr. Rafaelovic put out behind this pay phone. First of all, Mr. Rafaelovich, you need to distinguish between what the strategy is for the development of agriculture. That's what we discussed on the board. Unfortunately, the government has not adopted the strategy yet, and it is far from proposing that parliament adopt that strategy. So, the strategy was made up, it was discussed in professional and scientific circles, but it remained only at that level. Under the strategy, it was due this year, so for the next two years to adopt a national programme. I was talking about a national program, and you probably didn't understand. The national programme was to be adopted, as an operational programme, and the strategy, as a strategy, was something that was a fundamental document. You had no right to honor me if I didn't know what the strategy was. And I understand it and I know where we discussed it and when we discussed it. Also, regarding the funds that the Ministry of Agriculture has defined this year through the Agricultural Budget for the financing of agricultural production. I didn't argue that these were significant funds, especially as incentives, that it was about five billion dinars. I was talking about the funds that were meant to subsidize a billion dinar wheat, that nothing was done with a billion dinars. I was talking about subsidising exports of 600 and a few million dinars, that these funds were not used on purpose, and that they could be used precisely for the purpose of improving our agricultural production. So I don't think we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17547	On what basis, Mr. Markovic, do you want a word? If you want, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this House we've been experiencing everything and everything since 1990 and so on. We experienced police beating up SRS MPs, experiencing SRS MPs coming out of this parliament. But so far, since the beginning of parliamentaryism, we have not been able to experience a self-proclaimed expert teaching a doctor of agricultural sciences and a professor at the university what a strategy is. We've been through it today, too. The expert said, a moment -- there is no political party here that was not in power. There are no political parties other than the SRS that he was not in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17549	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladisav Kronic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17550	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Just a few words to explain some things. As for the ministry's legislative activities, of course, this legislative activity is very important. However, it would certainly be stronger if there were no specific actions in this parliament, which remind the obstruction to adopt as few laws as possible. As for the strategy of agriculture, the truth is to remind Mr. President of the Committee on Agriculture, the agriculture strategy was adopted unanimously. Mr. Zoran Mašić was chaired. So he raised his hand, and that's how we adopted the strategy. That's not controversial. The strategy is a professional matter and, therefore, a very important document. Since there was a situation here in the stock reserves, almost accurate data, which the speaker said here, but this deficit in the stock reserves, or robbery of the stock reserves, or theft occurred between 2000 and 2003. As for this year's wheat, he will be, unfortunately, just as he will be. However, we must be aware that the country's food security is secured with 530,000 tonnes at this point in the stock reserve and is not compromised. Finally, the task of the goods reserve is to provide the country's food security, and the wheat is safe, it must become clear to all of us, the goods, like any other, like shoes, like live cattle, etc. Therefore, why the price of corn is higher or lower, of course, a colleague, it depends on supply and demand. Request last year as a result of the dry year, (2003) Of course, it caused a rise in the price of corn – a good generation in the last year, this year, of course, the depression and the price. As far as exporting agricultural products to the EU is concerned, another exact information to be provided. Serbia has a surplus in its trade balance in agricultural exports with the EU. So much for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17551	Thank you. Replica, MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17552	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I'll be very brief, just to spread all the dilemmas. Mr. Mašić is very much appreciated and respected. I haven't tried to teach him anything he doesn't know for a moment. I was just reminding him of what he knows, and we should talk about this speaker the way it was. As for that part, the disdainful one, the expert. I don't think we should judge who's an expert on what. When I get out of here, any college that's finished, outside, abroad, you need to get a certificate for that graduation. What I'm an expert for, sir, dear colleague, I certainly take in every country and EU and American, and for our people with college diplomas, I'm not sure I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17553	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted to Section 1 of the amendment by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill and I will read it for the public's sake. In the proposal for a Customs Tariff Act Section I — Living animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 1. - Live animals, in tariff codes that and that number, customs rate 30 is replaced by a customs rate of 40. So the purpose of all the amendments, which you will hear during this debate, is to protect the farmer. I would rely on a series of falses and a series of false data, which have been presented, and I would say, among other things, that everyone is calling for it (from the current or former government, the former regime), to take care of the peasant. It is very interesting and very heartwarming to hear, and do they know that cherry, raspberries, wheat are still waiting to be sold because they do not have the prices – and if, at these prices at which they are offered, there is not enough money. The import lobby, both the former and current regimes, has been importing both pig and chicken meat, powdered milk, sausages, salami and everything else. I have data for last year, unfortunately, I don't have one, but I guess it's about the same thing, that, for the first four months of last year, only 21,000 tons of apples and 15,000 peppers were imported. I took these two examples, because you probably remember that last year, for example, Serbia was throwing apples. So it's a disaster, which you allow to continue to happen. Also, the export deficit in 2003-2004 was about three billion dollars, or 47-48% more than during sanctions. So much for how it was and how it was destroyed. I'm going to do some more data, which is not directly related to agriculture, but since it's talking about exports here, so I could finally say, with concrete examples -- in 1990, our exports were 1.7 worldwide exports, and today it's 0.2. If this were to be compared, if world trade exports were to grow in 2000 (this is data available and can be found) amounted to 6,180 billion, we can see that world exports increased by 77.3% more than a decade earlier, while we doubled the exports of raw materials and other primary products. In the early 1990s, raw materials amounted to 23.5% of our exports, to reach today, when steel, iron, incredible 48.6%. Let me tell you -- the em's getting a little bit exported, but what we're exporting is mostly raw materials. What does that mean? Anyone who's totally normal and who really wants to understand the movement on the market can analyze it. Since the prices of raw materials in the world will continue to decline, because such a trend, which has been going on for two decades, is negative, then we have to think about what to do. Only by this globalisation, which is being advocated here, (the yellow government and this one, their perp,) the rich become richer, and the poor grow poorer. This overdoing of wealth is done by depreciation of raw materials prices, which are mostly available by poor countries and by increasing the prices of final products, which happens every day in every country in Europe, the final product and goods of the wide-ranging consumption exported by developed countries. Why did I tell you all this now? I told you for the reason why, I am talking about exports here, it was written in an explanation (when this amendment I have rejected, among other things), that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the further increase in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences on exports of goods to EU countries. Now you've seen how much we're exporting and what we can lose. What you're saying has nothing to do with real life. It's like living in another country or at least acting like one, or loving another country, that's something special. The SRS otherwise advocates the production of finished products and how: raising primary production, as said the gentleman in the regime, brings people back to the country. Well, yeah, they'll be back when we let them come back. Free money for favourable loans. How do we get them back if there's no conditions? So helping to open new productions and start old ones, that's making half a product. It's a debate that will probably wait for us when we discuss the budget soon, so let's see where the money, which now appears as surplus, is going to be spent. Then the production of finished products and customs tariffs themselves should be protected by the market. So, the goods we have, because it's the only way to even run something. We have to make one whole cycle: grow grains, feed cattle, make products, meat, milk, salami, then sell them. Or should we tell the people, since you planned on the country to have the village shut down nicely, that people move to the city, and that those who remain are grown chinchillas and snails?- I'm sorry. It's been an articulation in the last four years. These yellow ones were growing all the chinchillas and snails. I'm just afraid this power doesn't continue. There's also talk of production, someone mentioned the production of barley. Let me give you one piece of information that is devastating – brewers that are privatized, "Apantic", "Celarevo" imports malt. Also, an example from the municipality from which I come, from the town of Vrsac, Vrsacka brewery (which was once known now, but no longer works so well) – in four years with a million marks of debt, came to 13m euros in debt, which was left by the yellow power in the previous period!- I'm sorry. Em was stealing everything, destroying everything that had been destroyed by the company, rather than the fact that at the time the Vršačka brewery was buying 300 wagons of barley. Today the peasant is destroyed thanks to the power of the "yellow" thief. You keep doing that. That's why all the amendments to the SRS, (which are said and which are likely to talk after me), are all about protecting our product, the products we have, and the ones we don't need to protect. And, another explanation, which was funny, why the amendment is not accepted, (I'm only on preferential exports to the EU), also says -- "as well as because the proposed increases are not in line with the "standsteel" clause which provides for customs rates to remain at the level of the Action Plan for Harmonization of the Economic System"... And so on. Gentlemen, solve the first problem: our water will no longer be allowed to be exported to Montenegro. They're your coalition partners, they're your friends, they're the people who have destroyed the country in the last four years, which you still support.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17555	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section I of the 1st Amendment by MP Vitomir Plužarević. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act Section I. — Live animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 1. — Live animals, in headings 0102 90 51 00, 0102 90 59 00, customs rate – 30 is replaced by the customs rate – 40. It's not worth anything to you, not even an agreement from your coalition partners to buy domestic goods. That password would probably be good if you would respect it and if it wasn't for those friends of yours you're helping at all levels when importing, distributing and selling other people's goods. This clean and beautiful land of ours has remained uninfected, so you want this law to infect our cattle with Crazy Cow syndrome. Do you know how much damage Europe has done to these crazy cows?- I'm sorry. Didn't you learn from this supposedly, your Europe what it means: we want to import all kinds of horses, donkeys, mules and mules, all kinds of cattle, all kinds of pigs, all kinds of sheep and goats, all kinds of animals and other animals. Under that "other animals" we can also place a game. We used to be the main exporters of live game. Mostly our deer traveled to England and Australia, and the price was expressed in dollars and quoted high. You didn't learn, and you're not even ready to do agricultural production. How do you raise the level of agriculture to a higher level, when your experts do everything they can to make agriculture a "nineth hole in play". Nothing can be done with these experts who are tasked with turning our agriculture black. Today, when the harvest is in full swing, there is no oil, the natural disasters are destroying us, the price of wheat unknown, living cattle getting smaller!- I'm sorry. Genetically modified plants slowly conquer our premises!- I'm sorry. Malin, cherry, everything is destroyed, and the Ministry wants to destroy our institutes. It's just one comment about these experts I mentioned above. They don't want us and our agriculture to be close, there, on that supposed European market. What would we be there if this Europe paid our experts not to be there?- I'm sorry. We in our agriculture had experience, knowledge and brains, they recognized it and today we see the results, but you have decided to derogate it to the end, and in the end you declare – no more our agriculture, the task is over. You didn't do anything with the budget last year or this year. All you've given is credit crumbs to your members on the ground, and it's separatically. Our agricultural producers know that. They'll tell you that in the next election, because they don't have any other options for you right now. You want the tariff to be 30% and you want to match the combined nomenclature. By simplifying this customs nomenclature, we as a state don't get much except to comply with European norms. You know why we don't get much, our goods producers on this thick nomenclature, which has 600 pages and should be in 10,000 tariffs. You have not accepted my amendment for the reason that my proposal leads to the loss of the trade preferences for the export of goods to European Union countries and that my proposal, of 40%, does not comply with the "standsteel" clause which provides for customs rates to remain at the level of the Harmonization Action Plan. And we could tell you a lot about this action plan, but it's not even time to comment on it right now. Imagine us in Serbia importing heifers for slaughter or other heifers. And we were ready, and we will be ready to export our heifers to either the European Union or somewhere in the world, because we have opportunities and space for that. We're only a little short, and it's that the state, or the Ministry, accepts it, and enables it with its own measures and organizes the profession and, behold, our heifers out there in the white world, as a quality and healthy commodity. As for the slaughter of cattle and heifers, we also participated in this and were the main exporters of quality semicolon and finished products, which went into the world and thus had a large foreign exchange inflow. We'll probably be able to do it again when there are no more of you on this political scene. You had a plan to pass 30 and more laws in the legislation in 2005 and three laws were passed. So your laws are going slow. Have a look around.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17557	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Section I. Chapter 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act Section I - Living animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 1 – Live animals in headings 0102 90 61 00, 0102 90 69 00. The first tariff code refers to the customs rate for imports of cows for slaughter, meaning adult bovine animals, and the second tariff code applies to other species of bovine animals. So these tariff codes and this tariff are essentially required by law to be a customs rate of 30%, and I suggest that that rate be increased and 40%. So, I suggest this for the following reasons: in our country annually, a large number of cows, first of all, go to slaughter, because we are going to a large remont of non-productive procedures, and the reproductive usability of cattle in our cattle production is three to four years, while in developed bovine countries for seven to eight years, so that's how long the reproductive cycle lasts. So, in these developed countries where we would import cows, they're significantly older than in our country. Furthermore, what motivated us to propose a higher customs rate is that it is incomprehensible that this law gives or proposes the same customs rate for live animals for slaughter, including adult cattle and is the same customs rate for meat of slaughtered animals, for carcases and half of those animals. I think a customs rate like this can stimulate, exactly, some beef processors to import the meat of adult cattle, because it's at the same customs rate as the meat of heroes or some other slaughtered animals. The following was the motivation to propose a change in customs rates, our country has an obligation to bring customs tariffs in line with the Combined European System of the European Union and, above all, with regard to the nomenclature. However, we do not have an obligation and no one can force us to prescribe the level of customs rates exclusively at these rates in the EU. The basis is explained -- the level of customs duty rates prescribed is the result of an agreement reached on harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's customs rates. There can be no motivation, to be metrict (that only for this customs treatment of the imports of live animals, first of all, of adult cattle, to be the primary and proposed customs rate), this agreement between Montenegro and Serbia, because Montenegro has such a number of adult bovine animals for slaughter compared to what we have, especially in relation to the number of meat processors. Furthermore, what motivated us to propose a change in this customs rate is precisely the fact that our country (mainly, it is in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture), budgets for stimulating meat and meat processing exports, and this year it is planned with 20% incentive of exports. We cannot appear or rather say it would be unfair for someone to use a subsidy for the export of meat and meat products of imported animals, for example, cows kicked out of breeding, adult cattle, and we know that their meat is the worst quality; most of all, it goes to processing, to dry meat products or other semi-permanent products. In the end, what is already mentioned here, we are in danger of certain infectious animal diseases entering our country. More specifically, I mean prion diseases and the known disease of mad cows. Fortunately, so far, we have no confirmed case of this disease, and we continue to be in the international office of infectious diseases, as a country free of that disease. However, first of all, the disease is being brought to the ground by adult cattle. There is a potential risk of importing (and importing under favourable conditions) adult cattle so that some unconscious importer may introduce from a country that has registered that disease, although there are other legal regulations that prohibit such a thing. Given the mentality of our merchants, especially importers, there is a real danger (and when there are favourable customs rates) that something like that will happen, which would have a very unfavourable impact on our cattle stock, above all, cattle production, but there would also be a threat to the health of our people. That's why all these reasons, which I've counted, are to simply accept the proposal and increase the customs rate for importing cattle. That it is not at all in the same level as the customs rate for imports of juniper meat or other slaughtered cattle, but to be larger and we have suggested that it be 40%. Finally, in order to warn all this I said, first of all, preventing certain infectious diseases from being introduced, it would be necessary for the Ministry of Agriculture to deliver the veterinary law as urgently as possible, which will essentially solve the very accumulated problems in the veterinary profession, and also essentially solve the management of livestock infections and allow our country to be competitive with meat and meat products in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17559	The First Amendment was submitted to Section 1 of the amendment by MP Prvoslav Savic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a customs tariff law in Section I, where live animals are mentioned, products of animal origin, as well as Chapter 1. – Living animals, which are classified according to tariff codes, are already mentioned by my predecessor, Mr Zoran Mašić, the customs rate is 30, which I consider to be a low customs rate and ask to be replaced by a customs rate of 40. I am looking for this because the policy so far, both the previous and current governments, the uncontrollable imports of live cattle, meat and meat processing, as well as milk and milk processing, have had a devastating impact on our cattle farmers, who have not been able to reduce livestock funds because of their inability to sell cattle, as well as on the sale of products, so the stock fund is completely impoverished. The solution I offer this amendment would protect our producers, or cattle farmers from uncontrolled imports of these products and live cattle, thus preventing further poverty and destruction of both the livestock stock and our producers, cattle farmers. It is obvious that by the very act of rejecting this amendment, as well as the reasoning it has given, the government is merely proving that our agricultural producers and their interests are not at all considering it. But that's why he takes great care of Western European and American producers. And protecting only their interests shows that she is not the government for which Serbian citizens should vote in the next election by voting for political parties whose representatives make up this government. By not accepting this amendment, the government has shown that it wants to protect an import lobby that will continue to be enriched and from which some monetary sum will be "hated" and some of the ministers, so that the poor can survive. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, should vote to accept this amendment, so as not to allow citizens of Serbia to further strengthen their belief that they and their interests are cared for only by Serbian radicals. Keep an eye on it, the election is on the line, so you may need some advice, and I don't charge for this, although it's very ungrateful to give advice, although smart people don't need it, and others don't listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17561	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Section 1. Chapter 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Stojan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act, Section I - Live animals; products of animal origin; Chapter 1. – Live animals in headings 0103 91 10 00, 0103 91 90 00, customs rate 30 is replaced by a customs rate of 40, as the policy of the previous government with uncontrollable imports of live cattle, meat and meat processing, milk and milk processing has had a devastating impact on domestic livestock funds, which are completely impoverished. The solution I propose to this amendment protects domestic farmers from uncontrolled imports of these products and prevents them from being destroyed. Since 2000, with DOS coming to power, uncontrollable imports of live cattle and meat processing have started, so that they have contributed to the destruction of the stock fund, and this practice continues today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17563	Thank you very much, Mr. Cvetkovic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic to Section I of the 1st Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section 1 of the amendment by MP John Day. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a Customs Tariff Act Section I - Live animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 1. – Live animals, in headings 0104 10 30 00, 0104 10 80 00, 0104 20 90 00, which relate to lambs up to one year of age, goats of pure race for breeding and others. I suggested that instead of the customs rate – 30, there should be a customs rate – 40. I believe that the previous government did uncontrollably import meat and meat processing, especially lamb and goat meat, which negatively affected the livestock fund in Serbia. The stock fund in Serbia is on the verge of survival and, therefore, with this amendment of mine, which I submitted in front of the SRS, I want to protect our agricultural producers and livestock growers, who, due to uncontrollable imports, are still poor, and the stock fund is threatened with total destruction. Serbia was once an exporter of cattle, meat, meat products, and today we import, although we know we could export – one organised production, farming and buying cattle. I am above all referring to stable prices and controlled imports of live cattle, meat and meat processing and other raw materials, which in most cases are of suspicious health origin, which are imported without any health control, from them are made meat products of suspicious health and quality – we feed them, or poison our children, and our healthy cattle, our cattle fund no one wants to protect. That's why I suggest you adopt amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17565	Thank you, Mr. Daya. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section 1 by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Section 1 of Section 1 of the Customs Tariff Act. The amendment in Section I of Chapter 1 which changes the intended customs rates from 20 to 30 is intended to achieve stability of the prices of agricultural products in our country, and in this case – livestock of a specific category of age, or species. Given that this is about imports of livestock from abroad, it is necessary to increase the customs rate to 30, as an extortioned measure to protect domestic producers. Uncontrolled imports of live cattle, livestock and other agricultural products can significantly disrupt relations on our market, especially to endanger our farmers. On the one hand, it is well known that EU countries significantly subsidise food producers. It'll be easy for those of you to make it to our market. On our market, competition is represented by domestic producers, who have no money from the state. If someone takes a loan to encourage agriculture, it eventually turns out, with a big interest, too expensive. This is one way to save the market for our people, who have been running out of work lately, so a lot of them have found their way out right in livestock farming. Here is one good reason why this amendment should be adopted: in this same Section of Chapter 3, for carp and trout customs tariff is 30, which means that the same parallel could be withdrawn when it comes to protecting livestock production in Serbia. The amendment applies to both smaller and larger units of livestock. So, to those who go directly to the slaughterhouse, as well as to those who remain for the spread of the species. One big dilemma is imposed on every citizen of ours, who can find extremely cheap chicken meat from imports, who will probably buy it without considering whether his diet will cause a disturbance, in metabolism, which can be very serious at the same time. We don't have to go back much to remember the disease of "mad cows" caused by the diet of illicit concentrates and additives. That's how cattle are fed, everything and everything, and in the West. One day, thanks to the low customs tariff, it will all be found in our country, at the table in front of our children. It is precisely in the wake of a great demand for healthy food, which EU countries are looking for everywhere, not asking for a price, that they have an honest relationship with their agricultural products. By adopting this amendment, we will provide an opportunity for our people to find places in the competition and to survive this difficult situation and the money that the current government has brought us into, especially Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Following the arrival of DOS to power in Serbia, a group of experts, including the current Deputy Prime Minister of Miroljub Labus, has significantly brought down prices of live cattle, fruits, vegetables, milk, etc. At that time, as a consequence of the "expert" missed move, we had almost stopped growing live cattle, precisely because of the price that was below any real basis. The SRS is committed to increasing all customs rates concerning imports of agricultural products, all in order to preserve the potential of our producers, while at the same time protecting their social status. We must protect our producers just as other countries in the world do. We in Serbia, apart from agriculture and tourism, literally do not have any business branch that can provide the state with significant foreign exchange funds and at the same time employ a large number of unemployed. After the liquidation of domestic banks, the finance minister continued to destroy everything in front of him by bad laws in a new role. This was best felt by merchants, craftsmen, bonds of compulsory pension and social insurance, drinking sellers, citizens as users of services and farmers. In the end, the domestic livestock came under the pressure of Mladjan Dinkic, setting such a customs tariff under the code mentioned in the amendment. So, by adopting this amendment, the tariff for certain categories of livestock would be 30 instead of 20, which would certainly ensure the status of our farmers dealing with livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17567	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Section I Chapter 1, Section VIIHead 39, Section XI Chapter 51, 56, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62 and 63 and Section XVII of Chapter 87 is, pursuant to Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section I of the 1st Amendment by MP Milos Disic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17568	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act, Section I - Live animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 1. — Live animals, in headings 0105 12 00 90, 0105 19 20 90 90, 0105 19 90 90 90, 0105 99 10 00, 0105 99 20 00, 0105 99 30 00, 0105 99 50 00 customs rate – 15 is replaced by the customs rate – 20. The interpretation of this amendment is very simple and can be understood very easily, if you want to think and contribute to making the Republic of Serbia and its agriculture take the upstream line, to create good conditions that a farmer can live off his work. But what I received as an explanation of why the amendment is being rejected, it is indeed not correct for farmers and agricultural households in the Republic of Serbia. For the past few years, the previous government and its laws have destroyed agricultural production and brought farmers to the brink of life. Only to accept this amendment, so that our agricultural household can be restored so that it can live off its work as God commands and commands. So far, you have disobeyed the cry of the SRS, nor have you listened to the SRS' belief that with your laws you have really brought Serbia to the brink of misery and hunger. I want to tell you that in recent years, you've allowed uncontrollable imports of products and everything from the West, everything should be nice and nice. We forgot about our healthy meat, healthy food, vegetables and everything that adorned Serbian production and our agriculture. The last moment is for you to consider and to improve this law and not allow the Serbian agriculture to continue to collapse with these solutions offered by the SRS in the form of amendments. I want to tell you that agricultural holdings and households live in mountain areas. Once upon a time, the Kopalnik and all our mountains whitened from the herds of sheep. Today we have every household tied to one sheep's bread and took her after them. It's a disaster, isn't it? About 1,500 herds of sheep were on the Kopalnik 15 - 20 years ago. And today? All together households do not have more than 100 pieces, which are kept indoors closed. We are witnessing these days that agriculture dies another way. The raspberries the peasants picked, produced, have no one to sell. Here, we're witnessing what happened in Valyev. In Guca and in Kopalnik, potatoes are thrown, they can no longer feed, because they don't have enough cattle, but big pits are made, and these potatoes are buried. Imagine how far we've come, and we're importing everything that's produced in the world, counting on it to be world-class and better than ours. I must remind you that 10-15 years ago our June fought battles, and Greece, without listening to the EU, imported our June meat. What has contributed today to us destroying our healthy agriculture and production? Imagine yourself. Please listen to the SRS and accept the amendments to the SRS and stop the further collapse of Serbian peasants and Serbian agriculture. With your laws you have mutilated and finished the Serbian peasant and Serbian agriculture, but you can only save a little if you accept the amendments to the SRS. I hope that in the voting day you will accept the SRS amendment and allow Serbia to export and no more production, allow it to start production and start exporting with that production. You've ruined everything, don't let this go to waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17569	Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Section I of Chapter 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Section 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 141 and 159. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have tabled an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act. In the proposal for a Customs Tariff Act Section I — Living animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 2. – Meat and other meat offal, in headings 0201 20 10, 0201 20 20 20 20 20 20 90, in the proposal for a customs tariff law, you proposed that the rate of customs duty be 30, and I suggest that this rate be replaced and increased by a customs rate of 50. Here's why. So far, the policy of the previous government, with uncontrollable imports of live cattle, meat, meat processing, milk and milk processing, has affected domestic livestock funds that are completely underprivileged. The solutions proposed by this amendment protect domestic farmers from uncontrolled imports of these products and prevent their further poverty and destruction. The arguments you gave on customs tariffs are all the same. You can't get away with this with the people and the citizens of Serbia. It's all clear here. If you want to protect our meat, meat products and cattle growers, you have to accept this customs rate of 50. But in the term of this government of the Republic of Serbia, its ministries did not or may not have been allowed to adopt almost no SRS proposal or amendment. What does that mean? We Serbian radicals have received huge support from the people of Serbia to represent them in this parliament. We want that request and we have to meet it to the end. We asked to be a partner, not an EU loser, to seek and propose that we preserve Serbia, first of all, as a country of free citizens. The SRS is telling you and Serbian citizens -- believe in Serbia, love it and ask the SRS to be a leader in a better future for young and growing children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17571	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section IGlava, the second amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment. , and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd Amendment was submitted to Section Iglava by MP Nikola Lalic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic to Section I of the 2nd Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as much as our position to increase the tariffs proposed in order to protect the domestic producer and the product, will reduce or make the negotiating position of this government with the EU for trade, we do not know, but all our proposals to increase customs rates on imports of livestock, animals, meat and meat processing are intended to protect our producer and to protect domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17573	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Blagoje Krajinović, submitted to Section and Chapter 2. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On section 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17574	And this is one in a series of amendments that aims to fix what was proposed by the Government, and as far as the Customs Tariff Act is concerned, this specifically applies to tariff codes. Since most of them don't follow the tariff codes, because of the public, I have to say that this applies to Chapter 2. - Meat and other meat products for food. These specific tariff codes apply to various types of concentrated meat, where the government has proposed that the customs rate be 30%, and the SRS proposes that the rate be 50%. So, practically, it's about the finished products being imported. One category can be processed later, but essentially, it's about finished products. It is not a matter of raw materials, but of goods, a higher level of processing and as such, which is also produced in the country, the need to determine the customs rate and be higher than that proposed. And what are the reasons? The reasons are very simple. Customs, first of all, is intended to protect domestic production and unless customs policy protects domestic production, then it's no wonder this is a standard of living. I would also draw attention to individual members of the Customs Tariff Bill, in particular Articles 3 and 4. Article 3 of the last position reads: "The Government shall comply with the Customs Tariff nomenclature, at a level larger than the six-digit numeric code, with the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union and shall prescribe units of measures for new tariff positions, with the retention of the prescribed rates of customs duties". This means that under a certain customs rate, the Government can translate another product based on some new code, a new nomenclature. And in the West there are also such products that cannot be classified in any of the existing tariff items, and then there is a need for this tariff item to spread to us, since this nomenclature of tariff headings is somewhat smaller than in a united Europe, then the Government has reserved for itself this right not to practically interpret, but rather to prescribe a sublegal act where one product belongs. What is said in Article 4, the final position: "The customs of products of heading 1 of this article is carried out in a manner prescribed by the Minister responsible for financial affairs". It's about unassembled products. This used to be the way of abuse (primarily, it refers to industrial products), when some with sound names: "Lale", "Cile", "Mile",itd, in conditions where, for example, there was no production or used to exist, so someone shut it down, they import individual components that are classified by certain tariff numbers with lower customs rates because they are semi-products, repromaterials, why not say spare parts. Then, when they get it together, they make a new refrigerator, a new TV set, they make a brand-new product. He, as such, would by any chance have a far higher customs rate. Mladjan Dinkic just caught on to where there is a possibility of malfeasance. This is the case in this draft law, Article 4 refers to paragraphs 1 and 2. No one's objecting to that. Some, who understand little, draw attention to the fact that it remains in the hands of an individual. In order to understand the full position of the SRS on this part of the customs tariff, which is mainly applicable, so far as we have considered, on live cattle, meat and meat processing, I would like to draw your attention, and I will skip this part of our obligation to join the EU, i.e. meeting the conditions for entering the EU, I want to tell you, with this problem of uncontrolled liberalisation, which has started, literally, since November 2000, when the new government had no intention of looking at customs tariffs and seeing how our products are being protected, but simply opened our market, gave it to foreigners. And to give it to strangers, they had to create a massacre with customs tariffs, harmonize it, adapt it, and even go so far as to talk about some standards of the World Trade Organisation and those Rotarian organizations. I will read one part of the text, which was once written last year, and it concerns the dilemma of what we need to survive and what the experiences of other countries of the Eastern bloc, which have set out before us at that stage of EU entry, and of course what is on the agenda today. Often in our public, we hear phrases about countries that were once behind us, and now they are in the EU or are about to enter. However, specific data on their situation are not so idyllic, especially in agriculture. For your knowledge, more than 40% of EU rules apply to agriculture. The EU has economic strength and these potentials because it has provided food security to EU countries through rigorous regulations, standards and protection of its market, has made it inaccessible to other countries outside this system and by safeguarding agriculture, they are practically providing themselves with good conditions for industrial development. I'm saying this to make our people realize that agriculture isn't a "cat cough" and that agriculture can't be left to irresponsible people like those who have been running agriculture for several years. Here's an example, I'm all based on an analysis of the data published by the Dossier Authority through its institutes in 2001-2004. In Hungary, the EU's protectionist measures led to the orientation of Russian agricultural producers there. When Minister Joseph Torgian and regional development tried to increase subsidies in the production of cereals in 1999, he soon realized that the most basic parts, the most basic parts of agriculture in foreign hands, and that he had made a mistake, which cost him the position. While in the 19th and 20th centuries Hungary was an exporter of cereals, milk, meat, turkeys, etc., the last years have been growing imports of agricultural products, from 25% to 44%. The share of agriculture in the gross national product fell from 1990 to 2000 from 12.5% to 8.3%. Hungary had no armed conflicts on its territory. The drop in employment in this sector is 50%. Agricultural production after a successful path (under quotes) towards the EU is 29% lower than in 1990. These data are particularly surprising, given the relief of Hungary. Let's remember they had no war, no sanctions. About 4,000 per export-oriented units are eligible for competition according to EU criteria. They are largely led by a foreign hand through the so-called so-called. tenants, who rented them from state privatisation agencies and holding companies. This foreign sector in Hungary should compete with 1.2 million small farmers. In the production of edible oil, beer, tobacco 90% are small farmers. According to estimates of Hungarian chambers in 2001, 60,000 hectares were in the hands of Austrian citizens. The Union of Brussels is seeking to legalise these illegal lease contracts. In 2001, there was a dispute between Hungarian agricultural workers and Austrian peasants who own the country. Poland is in a similar situation as Hungary. The food industry is owned by foreign governments. In 1989. 30% of Poles lived from agricultural products obtained on their holdings. In 2002, that percentage fell to 18%. French milk, German, Dutch pig detachments won the Polish market. The only cheap loans the farmers took were collected when they arrived for payment. Four to eight million Polish farmers have no right to subsidies that French, German and Austrian peasants have. Agricultural surpluses are placed on the Polish market from Western Europe. That's how social unrest and farmer strikes are avoided in the West and moved to the East. The subsidies allow two Dutch peasants to produce the same value of goods as 25 peasants in Poland. There are regular conflicts between the self-defense agricultural union and the Polish police and roadblocks. Through the lease agreement, foreign owners also acquired ownership over agricultural land. The land price is up to 13 times lower than in Germany. In 1999, Polish peasants blocked border crossings in an unsuccessful attempt to prevent cheap EU imports. In 2002, EU agrarian Commissioner Franz Fischer was excavated in the Polish Parliament. At a meeting in the first half of January 2005, representatives of Slovenia's food industry estimated to be in a difficult crisis that will escalate this year. The main reason for this is the inability to sell its products on the EU market. In the first 10 months of 2004, food imports increased by 8% and exports decreased by 10%. Foreign milk, dairy products, alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic beverages and sugar were most imported. The biggest problems are expected in the slaughterhouse, dairy and meat industries, the processing of cereals and the production of non-alcoholic beverages. The country most exporting Slovenian food is not an EU member. It's Croatia. In 1991, the Slovenian food industry employed 36,000 workers and achieved 5% of the gross national product. Today, he employs 19,000 workers and makes 2.38% of the gross national product. Since 1 January 2004, Slovenia has no right to produce a Kranjska sausage, as it has more water than prescribed. Slovenian peasants lost the right to subsidies that could be measured with relief in the old EU members after entering the EU. It is forbidden, on 30 December 2002, in Copenhagen, that new members have more than 25% of subsidies from EU subsidies to old members. EU support for farmers grew in the period from 1986 to 1999. At the same time, in the Czech Republic and Hungary it fell from 66% to 25%. In 1997, state subsidies fell to 9%. In 1991. The Czech Republic had a $120m surplus in agricultural products, and registered a 430m deficit compared to the EU in 1999. Opaque lease contracts exist massively in the Czech Republic, mostly with German peasants. It's similar in Slovakia, it's similar in other countries, time expires, I have no reason to read this to you, it's your sources, your data are "Expansion to the East" by Hans Hofbauer, "The Business Review" and "The White Book" in the publication of the Economic Institute. So our route is routed to this government, this has nothing to do with harmonisation and coordination, this only has to do with the destruction of Serbian agriculture, Serbian agricultural producers with all measures, and today it's on the agenda one measure, that's the Customs Tariff, that's the rate of customs duties prescribed. As you can see, it's going with lower customs duties that the cheaper or the cheaper the prices at an even small customs rate, the more goods from abroad come and choke our production. That is why the SRS is submitting these amendments, asking to increase customs rates to protect our market. I have to draw your attention, because of the insinuation I just heard from this pay phone, this is not our way, and those who voted on the European path did not vote for customs to be placed this low in order to destroy our production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17575	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Tihomir Đuričić, submitted to Section 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Tihomir Đuricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the SRS to Section I of the Customs Tariff Act, which refers to - Live animals; products of animal origin and Chapter 2. - Meat and other meat products for food. This amendment refers to the level of customs rates – I suggested that the rate be replaced by 30, as the government suggested, at 50%. For what? So it doesn't happen like before. Approximately, when mentioned here by Matijević's meat company in Novi Sad, it managed to bring even the regulation to its advantage through its government friends. Of course, the law did not say that these tariffs at that height apply to imports of raw meat and live cattle. I've had a chance to see that meat. In fact, it is about a meat imported from Italy for dozens of years; in the knowledge that the stock reserves stood for about twenty years in the coolant in Italy, and the Italians even paid for it and who would take it from their country, since it was worth nothing. The meat was imported here with the help of the government, thus reducing the value of live cattle, which absolutely destroyed the stock fund in the Republic of Serbia. But let's make sure the stock fund is destroyed, it's not a small thing, but through the destruction of the livestock stock, there's been preparations to privatise the slaughterhouse industries. Many giants like the Carnex of Vrbs were sold at the time, the Mitros of Sremska Mitrovica, and not to list the others that were sold for small money. So, first, the stock fund was destroyed, the slaughterhouses were out of work, and for small money our factories were privatized, which were not only Yugoslav, but also European giants and known on the European market. In fact, the government has not accepted this amendment here, but it is no wonder, because for this session, the SRS has submitted a total of about 500 amendments and I have not noticed that any amendment has been accepted by the government. I don't think that's right, and it's not right. It's impossible that out of the 500 amendments, none of them are good. I think you could still find at least one of those amendments as good. However, it is obvious what is wanted by this law, and it is our obligation to point to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the irregularities and what the Government wants to do in the coming period. The pay phone mentioned repeatedly the comparison of authorities, for example, when Serbian radicals were in co-operation with the SPS. But let the gentlemen who said this from this booth not forget that they have been in power for the last three years and are making us fate from day to day, that they destroy this economy, that they have destroyed it completely. In fact, the difference in that government, when we took part in power, and now that you're doing it, it's huge! No matter what you claim to be involved in the government, you've discovered no affair, nor have we left you behind. For these three years, especially the people who advocated from this pay phone and their parties are strongly involved in all possible affairs in the Republic of Serbia and even their ministers. A colleague here mentioned that every commodity has its own price. It is true, you cross any street in Belgrade, and you will see it by the display, all goods with marked prices: on clothes, on each item there is a price. But I don't know how familiar the gentleman is, there's a harvest in Vojvodina in full swing, and the wheat still doesn't have its price. I believe it's for a reason, I just don't know if you've calculated well. Rains that have been falling continuously for five days in Vojvodina, I think they will significantly reduce the yields of wheat and that your offerings will be much less than planned. Namely, you don't care what the price of wheat is. I'll make only one parallel: last year if you remember those strikes and roadblocks by peasants, when peasants through cooperatives tried to negotiate with the government and reach some agreement on the level of the price of wheat. It seems to me that colleague Mašić and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture said, in principle, that the price for wheat was agreed on this committee to be 8.5 plus 1.5 premiums. But your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus and the party president, managed literally to settle with negotiators from these cooperatives, who represented peasants, and offer them a price of 7.5 dinars, which has not been paid to this day. This price was related to the first class of wheat, plus deductions, dirt, moisture and what followed, and it turned out that some (on the territory of Backa, I mean wheat), had insufficient energy value and could only serve as a feeder, so its price was five dinars in the meantime. Of course, you have not yet determined the price of the new wheat, the government has not put forward a proposal, and in the District Assembly the same gentlemen who care too much about the province of Vojvodina and constantly advocate that Vojvodina has been damaged, have come up with a proposal for the Republic of Serbia's Assembly to make the price of wheat 8.60 dinars. In fact, if it was 7.5 dinars last year, and the Agriculture Committee offered the government 10 dinars, I don't think there's any reason for the price of wheat to be less than 10 dinars. Last year during the harvest, the euro amounted to 72 dinars. Today, the euro is around 84 dinars, amounting to 12 dinars per euro. If we make a parallel, a kilo of wheat will be lost only in the growth of the euro, in the inflation we have suffered in this period in a year. I don't think the government is doing its job and is absolutely not taking care of the peasants and the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. Here it is constantly advocated that with great care you are thinking about adopting these laws as soon as possible, because it is done in a hurry, and today the President of the Assembly extended the work of the Assembly after 14.00 hours, for a reason, only to push the amendment more quickly and to finish this story as soon as possible so that Serbian citizens would not listen to Serbian radicals what they are saying for this speaker and that they have justifiedly defended these laws and amendments that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17577	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Section I of the Second Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the tariff system submitted to us by Mladjan Dinkic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has not only been the mere harmonisation of the nomenclature with EU members, but is indeed one of the most perfidable methods of destroying the Serbian economy and protecting the import lobby that has been so strong since the arrival of the coup on power since October 5th, that it has produced an external trade deficit of 12 billion euros. It is something that is unsustainable for the Serbian peasant and for the Serbian industry, for the food industry. The amendment that I have made to the Animal Treatment Section; products of animal origin, i.e. Chapter 2. – Meat and other meat offal, where on behalf of the SRS I demand that the import rate be higher by 20%, that, instead of 30%, it be 50%, is justified, given that all indicators, including those made by the SRS, are made by the Stabilisation and Association Assessment Commission, (and when, as our Serbs would say, "not a smoother donkey to green grass", in 2024 or 2026, and when the EU falls apart), there are irrefutable facts related to strategic agricultural products, namely livestock products and their relationship to the domestic market, and it is thought of prices, export opportunities and export volumes in the period 2001 to 2004. Those results are devastating. They cited, in their plan for preferences and signing a free trade agreement for some of the products, how interested in the Serbian processing industry and for meat and meat processing products, but not enough on our market, that they are low quality of production, due to poor technology – so it is much easier for them to buy agricultural land complexes, Serbian slaughterhouses, Serbian production plants for free. And that those with that hot capital, or money, come to our market, and the workers are left out of work, and there is no end in that whole ruin. The liberalisation of prices from 2000 to 2003, in fact, was done from January 2001 to 2003 for 99.9% of products, except for some types of services. Although their liberalisation began later in 2003, it was particularly pronounced when it comes to the price of what is the basic product of life, but only in the domain of the import lobby and what is appropriate for them to dictate their pace on the market. It is clearly shown through imports of what has been produced much better in Serbia for decades, but now there is nowhere to be produced. If you see the overall structure, in addition to this campaign by the Ministry, to buy our domestics, in any supermarket, any supermarket, you'll see that there's a much greater involvement in foreign goods, even when it comes to meat processing than these domestic goods. You remember very well, some from early childhood, some from youth, that the national brand, including the brand of the former Yugoslavia, was a pâté made in the Red Star Meat Industry Kragujevac. If you are now wondering, or if you do not know what is wrong with one of such products, which were extremely high quality, extremely represented in our and world markets, and especially in the market that is gravitating around the European Union, and also in those countries that are not and if you compare it with what this factory has experienced, (and it has survived and produced during the sanctions, and during the DOS period of government) you will come to the conclusion that the Prime Minister of privatisation and then the Government of the factory went bankrupt; fully disintegrated and stolen equipment for production, workers left on the street and for two and a half years has been slow before the competent trade court. One of the conditions of that so-called. the Washington Agreement, which is pursued by the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, price liberalisation, free market formation allegedly and privatisation. When you have in mind that such an faceless robbery privatisation has been carried out in a three-year period and that the Red Star Factory is systematically destroyed, so one of the most famous local industries, not only in our country but also in the Balkans, and the question is whether it will ever recover, what are you going to talk about and how to negotiate with those whose harmonisations you care about? So, what can you offer them? They say they don't have enough for our market either, and I don't know what preferences to give you. To ask a Serbian peasant who may be at this time (until half of you, for the third time lunch, go for cakes and coffee) returns from the market, which is today the price of pigs on the market, you will get the answer that 120.00 or 130,00 dinars depending on where the cattle market in Serbia was. Ask him if it's worth it and how long it takes him to feed one pig up to 25, 30 kilos. You'll get the answer that it's a lot, that the concentrates are expensive, that the cattle food is extremely expensive, that his taxes are getting bigger and bigger. In addition to being completely destroyed by the stock fund and systematically destroyed in the period from 2000 to 2003, it registers agricultural households, but no longer with an average stock like it was once satisfactory in Serbia, but rather with a pair of pigs, possibly two cows or one heifer, you will get the information that they barely have for a simple reproduction. Then how can you count on the slaughterhouses and those that survived in Serbia to be able to buy or produce at favourable prices? How can you think that you will have enough to export when the stock fund is destroyed in such a way and when there are not enough subsidies? You see, through this bill of law and through all the laws we've talked about these days, you've closely tied yourself to this policy that has brought extremely negative effects in many countries that have joined the European Union. This was taxed by Mr Zoran Krasic and for the policy dictated by the IMF. You did not wonder if it was normal to accept all this blindly at the expense of the destruction of Serbian peasants and Serbian agriculture, given that the IMF in countries that are highly developed under their criteria is highly subsidising agriculture. In the negotiations and arrangements he has with, conditionally speaking, poor and undeveloped countries such as ourselves now (for the sake of a devastating economic policy), unfortunately, he does not give the opportunity to carry out out out of the budget a larger subsidy for agriculture and they are neither in this budget, nor in that of last year, in any of 2001. Although they are promoting through this Washington Agreement and through the policy of the World Trade Organisation free trade or price liberalisation, they know very well that they are protecting their economy, and this is unequivocally said by one thing. There were no investments in the steel industry in which large capital was invested in the United States for two decades. It has not invested in new technology, but it has stagnated for 20 years and their industry has become uncompetitive, just like ours in many segments because it is not invested, just like our agricultural production and livestock production. At that time, the US government, in spite of its membership in the World Trade Organisation, decided, despite these declared methods and alleged principles under the agreement and via the IMF, to simply impose customs duties on imports of steel. As the Government behaves, this one whose continuity in the way of governance, (when the economic sphere is) you continue, then DOS through this now, we have the opportunity to see through this proposal customs tariff, not only for meat, meat processing, but for what is the greatest pain of that healthy part of the Serbian economy today when it comes to metallurgy, when it comes to the entire industry, when it comes to all the processing branches and it is not you, (I repeat and I told you again in the debate in principle) enough that you are pressing on the green key, (and we have not even disturbed you) adopted a resolution when it comes to Serbian textiles, when you did nothing, or did this government to move in this once most profitable business branch in our country. Obviously, yes, by strengthening the import lobby and when it comes to systematically destroying the Serbian economy. You are eager to comply with the European Union and the nomenclature in the way they seek it. Also, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, just like previous Zoran Zivkovic, is not yet able to complete the correspondence of customs tariffs and customs rates with another republic of a member of the state community. Despite the existence of the so-called The action plan and the process of harmonising customs rates, which lasts almost three years and despite efforts then by the Democratic Party, through a large businessman and acquaintance of the region of Cedomir Jovanovic, to achieve harmonisation when it comes to agricultural products, you were unable to do so. Of course, because of this and because of the fact that you are weakly ruling and that you cannot oppose such a policy that in another republic led by the Separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, which by one-sided decision, extremely political nature, one day halted the departure of water from Serbia to Montenegro, you cannot then convince the Serbian public that you are able to protect against unfair competition and the import lobby of our agricultural, or livestock production. I can see that it's much more interesting for some people to come home and stuff and talk about everything and everything than how a Serbian peasant lives today, which is the price of living cattle on Serbian markets and how much it needs to be fed. But sooner or later, this poor Serb peasant (who came from the market today and who has to sell pigs at 120 dinars alive, and who knows how long it takes to produce it) will no longer be able to suffer either Dinkic, or Kostunica and all others who bought both our slaughterhouses and agricultural holdings, all for free and leave people out of work, and new duties and such customs tariffs continue to destroy the Serbian economy. It's just that you won't be able to do it. Tensy over poverty and poverty, and because accepting such a policy and such dictatorships is devastating for Serbian agriculture and economy in general, will cost you in a political sense. I can't wait, because the time of the Serbian radicals is coming, but by then, unfortunately, the poor people will suffer, and most of all, the Serbian peasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17579	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Section I. Chapter 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17580	Mr. Chairman, the amendment I tabled to the Customs Tariff Act concerns agricultural products. When the whole law is more carefully looked at and the proceedings of the ruling parties have been analysed since October 5th, since you opened the borders, but only one way, and that is, that everyone can whenever they want, whatever they want and whatever comes to mind that they import into Serbia. What is most imported is low-quality goods and low-priced goods. To make things worse, these goods of broad consumption are mostly agricultural products, such as on the domestic market. The problem of this government and all the governments since 5 October, and the two have been here for now, is that there is no serious plan and programme of what we will do with our agriculture and how we will train our agriculture to participate equally in this competition, even at home. To begin with, that means something. Domestic agricultural products have been in an extremely unfavourable situation for a long time because of an import lobby that seems to have an impact on the work of this government as well. This is evident under the proposal for this law, since in 2002 and 2003, when some tariffs and rates were agreed, one number of agricultural products was not in line with another member's republic at all. The question is, why? The second member republic, or Montenegro, claimed that it was not in her interest and that, for the protection of their population and their economy, the customs rates proposed by the Republic of Serbia, she cannot accept. But the problem is, when a man thinks of himself a little better, it's a whole other nature. The problem is that the second republic does not correspond to a high customs rate on agricultural products for the reason that goods (agricultural products) are imported. Only one piece of the poster on its own market and most of it ends up on the market in the Republic of Serbia. It is now seen by the bill that you have not remained consistent at all in protecting agriculture and have accepted the blackmail of Milo Djukanovic's regime in Montenegro, when it comes to customs tariffs and agricultural products. You have made it possible for a mob lobby, which governments in Montenegro, to steal, richly, both Serbian citizens and agricultural producers in Serbia. You have not wondered, for example, where the southern fruit comes from in Serbia. It's the easiest way to check by having one of you take a seat in the car, go to the quantum market, where it's often distributed and will see the helmets and trucks, mostly with plates from Montenegro, 90%. Who are they threatening? Who is this import threat? He's jeopardizing local fruit producers. You had the opportunity, especially in 2003, to see domestic products on the side of the highway thrown, because the ransom price was low, since the domestic market was flooded with such goods from Spain, Greece, who knows where it came from. And now it's a similar situation when it comes to importing these items. Customs policy is extremely unfavourable for a domestic producer when it comes to the fruit industry. When it comes to livestock, which is a higher form of agricultural production, there is an even worse situation. It is even worse because livestock can be divided into two parts – the part that deals with livestock farming, small or large, for the sake of meat and the other part, for the sake of milk. Both are related to each other, and it is an exceptional tendency, at least when it comes to milk, as well as milk products, that it is again imported on the side. Import the lower quality again and again at a lower price. We started importing milk from Slovenia, and we'll see where it all comes from now. The question is how proper such goods are. Let's say that we trust the competent republican authorities that follow the correctness of the goods, say that the goods are correct for use, but now the question is why we allow it. Someone said, I think it's the chairman (the one who was at that point) that we have to lead such a customs policy because it restricts the EU, we will lose our privileges in exporting. I would ask another question – what have we exported to EU countries? Someone says 40%. Let's believe 40% of the goods go to EU countries. But let someone divide that goods into raw materials, semi-product and product, how many of us have exported finished products to EU countries? Maybe three or four percent. We mainly exported either raw materials or semi-products, and later returned it via the import lobby as a finished product. It's an external trade exchange with the EU. I'm not saying that we should go against the EU in some foreign trade co-operation. First, we need to be aware that we need to make a strategy to train our agriculture, our agricultural industry. To begin with, on the domestic ground, to at least train them here, to bring such tariffs and rates that will enable our agricultural producer, not to fail and to prepare to enter a healthy competition, when the state will not be behind it, but they will be economic indicators that dictate such a pace. We didn't care about that agricultural producer at all. These five years, no one cares about them. Here, even there was one budget rebalance last year, where the subsidies for agriculture were reduced, for the purchase of wheat, for the purchase of milk. Where did that money go, believe me, I don't know, but it went with that the subsidies in agriculture were cut. The amount of subsidies for 2005 is nothing higher than that reduced in 2004. Here, now the wheat harvest has begun. On what terms? Is the same ransom price of wheat? No one knows what it is. Someone says it's even smaller. Is the same price of fuel? The fuel last year was 42-43 dinars, and now 62 dinars of diesel fuel. What kind of parity is the price compared to artificial fertilizer compared to plant protection, compared to seed? Everything goes to the expense of the domestic agricultural producer. As you now expect, under the climate of which the state must care, no one but the state, that it can be caught in a healthy competition with foreign producers that have more favourable conditions in their country, which are relieved of VAT, because our farmer also has to pay for it, which has high technology, though, which reduces product quality, etc. How did you think to protect this domestic agricultural producer of ours? Customs tariffs and rates to which I have submitted the amendment relate to sheep or goat meat, fresh, chilled or frozen. If I didn't count all these parts: hulls, half, etc., I wouldn't go in there. Now I ask the question, is it possible that Serbian agriculture, thanks to the lack of the DOS parties, has arrived at importing lamb and sheep meat into Serbia. Serbia, which was one of the largest exporters in this part of Europe, now has to import. Maybe it doesn't have to, but it's meat from imports cheaper, but it's lower quality. It will not be for the citizens, but only for those who import and place themselves on the market. Our peasant is going to fail, citizens are going to take goods of poorer quality, and the import lobby is going to be rich. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what you do when you vote on one of these customs tariff laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17581	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to Section 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On section 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I submitted to the Customs Tariff Act, Section I - Live animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 2. — Meat and other meat offal, in tariff codes under these and those numbers, as already mentioned in the amendment, I suggest that the customs rate 30 be replaced by a customs rate of 50. This amendment, like all amendments of the SRS parliamentary group, is heading towards the protection of domestic agricultural producers against uncontrolled imports of agricultural products and the decline of agricultural production in Serbia. In particular, my amendment refers to goatmeat in a fresh and cooled state, with and without bones. Many are the reasons why the billmaker should adopt this amendment. I'll name only four of the most important. First, it is an incentive to produce, that is, this type of livestock that can be extremely attractive, and we are not that developed. Why do I say it can be attractive? This has shown the experience of many, including developed European countries, that this is one of the best quality meats; that dairy products are at an extremely high price in EU countries and other countries of Europe, outside the European Community. This could enable domestic agricultural producers to address the existential issue, first of all, that the quality of these products provides extremely high prices on the world market, so that it can become very interesting for our agricultural producers. Another important reason is that it extends through all amendments, which is to protect against uncontrolled imports, which many SRS MPs have spoken of, so I will not repeat myself. The third important reason is that the adoption of this amendment would lead to the stabilisation of agricultural prices, i.e. as regards this amendment, in particular, goat meat and goatmeat. This applies to all other agricultural products, because without a stable price, without an advance price, it is very difficult to motivate agricultural producers to enter any production at all, because they absolutely have no safety, what awaits them and what concerns the state. The fourth important reason is because it's obvious that the state doesn't have enough hearing or resources or I don't know what to subsidize agricultural production. This is a major obstacle for our agricultural producers, because all the serious countries that invest in agriculture and which have an extremely large profit, subsidize agricultural production. It's an extremely strong asset for them in an international trade exchange. I'm saying, this government obviously doesn't have the means to do something like that. With agricultural loans, it is very liberating, so that only this way – by increasing the customs rate, can our agricultural producer be placed in an equal position with other world agricultural producers. In addition, what to say about the government's concern, as we heard from some MPs, about agricultural producers, when this government, I think, first in history, allowed there to be no diesel-fuels in the harvest. Every comment is too much and we have nothing to talk about here, when this question is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17583	I thank Mr. Radic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The People's MP Vitomir Milosevic submitted to Section II of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vitomir Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amending the Customs Tariff Act, Section I - Live animals; products of animal origin and Chapter 2. — Meat and other meat offal, customs rate 30 is replaced by customs rate 50. On behalf of the SRS, I have proposed a change in the customs rate because I believe that the adoption of this amendment would protect domestic livestock production that was literally destroyed in the previous period. It is known to all that Serbia is the primary, agrarian country with huge potential to deal with livestock production. Given that the former, and this government, uncontrollable imports of live animals, meat and other slaughterhouse products of suspicious quality and origin, literally destroyed livestock production and halved the stock fund, Serbian radicals suggest an increase in customs rates from 30 to 50, as such a move would detimulate the potential foreign exporters, which target their export activity towards Serbia and its market. Agriculture, in which the current government has sworn so much, (of course, in pre-election campaigns) in all previous periods took place and suffered all the difficult times, thanks to the primarily valuable and hardworking peasant. That's why he's in extremely difficult shape right now. Everything a farmer needs for agricultural production, regardless of which branch of agriculture is concerned, has been drastically expensive, while their products have remained realistically cheap and uncompetitive with the imported, which are often of suspicious quality. I come from the municipality of Kučevo, which mainly deals with agricultural production, with almost ideal conditions and huge potential for livestock development. I know a lot of farmers, cattlemen who literally destroyed their cattle stock, and left their landings and stops empty, for the simple reason that their products have no more to sell to anyone; no organised ransom, no guaranteed price and only maintain livestock production to that extent to cover their own needs. The government's drastic turn towards agricultural producers across all branches would increase the number of quality agricultural products, both on the domestic market and products ready for export. An increase in customs rates from 30 to 50 would certainly stimulate domestic farmers with a serious government policy would be interested in restoring the stock fund and complete agricultural production, and the benefit of accepting this amendment would be multiple. Therefore, gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian farmer, I urge you to consider in the voting day which button to press. Vote on your conscience, regardless of the government's argument, which says, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why further increases in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences for imports of goods into European Union countries." This kind of government policy towards domestic agricultural producers not only will we not have anything to export, but we will not have enough for our own needs, and we will be forced to import practically everything we are offered, regardless of the suspicious origin and quality, thus giving a final blow to both domestic agricultural production and the Serbian agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17585	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The People's MP, Paya Momchilov, submitted to Section II of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, National MP Dr Pai Momchilov has submitted an amendment to the draft law in Section I - Live animals; products, etc. To be clear, I will read: heading 0206 29 10 00, applies to imports of diaphragms, muscle tissues, tendons; 0206 29 91 00, refers to pig's guts, fresh and frozen; 0206 29 99 00, applies to imports of goat and sheep's guts; 0206 30 00 00, also to the insides of domestic animals and poultry, etc. National MP Paja Momchilov asked for customs duties on these products to be 30, as proposed in what you call the law, (there are two kilograms in it, and you are trying to replace it with 50 for a working day, or for a full day. The explanation, why the amendment is not adopted, says, "The amendment is not accepted for reasons why further increasing customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries." Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, except for sugar, several thousand tons of what you got preferred for, so you tried to cross the EU; so Miki Kostic imported sugar, just repacked and exported. What other favors did they make? Why don't you come out here and explain to us, or to the citizens of Serbia, what other preferences you've received in this past, previous and previous year, since 2000. Furthermore, in his explanation, he says, "As well as because the proposed increases are not in line with the standstill clause that provides for customs rates to remain at the level of the Harmonisation Action Plan." Look, please, "economic systems of state union member states Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and eliminate obstacles to free flow of people, goods, services and capital", etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time that you stop with these ridiculous laws, with laws like this that literally bury, and not just our agriculture, because this is about importing everything and everything. We have to tell the citizens of Serbia that you are here predicting that you are also importing stone flakes, and a stone contract, which will be used to build roads, because Cumet's machines can't handle our Danube or Moravian gravel. For them, a contract from abroad must be made, because they are also from abroad. As countries that have harmonised their relations and have already joined the EU have passed, MP Zoran Krasic told you, in the part he could speak. I'll be a little while longer, I know you don't care, that you've been given homework to lower customs, to open this market, that anything and anything can be imported. We have heard today that a butcher from Novi Sad imported pig heads from Hungary, there doesn't count for meat, of which the pasture rules for Monday, pasture for Tuesday, pasture for Wednesday, each day had a pâté of the same pig head imported from the shears, from something that was being thrown in Hungary, but before it got close to the EU. As far as the countries that are here may be closer to us and who prefer to this market and, let's say, Slovenia, I'll read you just one paragraph. In the first half of January 2005, representatives of Slovenia's food industry estimated to be in a difficult crisis that will escalate this year. The main reason for this is the inability to sell its products on the EU market. In the first 10 months of 2004, food imports increased by 8% in Slovenia and exports decreased by 10%. Foreign milk, dairy products, alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic beverages and sugar were most imported. The biggest problems are expected in the slaughterhouse, meat and milk industry, the processing of cereals and the production of non-alcoholic beverages. The country to which the most exports these same Slovenia is not an EU member, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, but is Croatia, and since those of you have allowed Mercator to spread across Serbia and Serbia. In 1991, the Slovenian food industry employed 36,000 workers and achieved 5% of the gross national product. Today, he employs 19,000 workers and makes 2.38%. Since 1.1.2004, Slovenia has no right to produce Kranjska sausage due to percentage of fat and water. Ladies and gentlemen, the crane sausage is a brand of Slovenia, and you've all tried to find it, if you find a crane sausage in self-service to buy it. You can't buy it anymore today, it doesn't answer. Not that it doesn't fit us, they're going to push us, load us over the Mercator, and through other companies, that spread like an octopus across the Serbian market, they're going to sell us a shrimp. We instead of protecting our production, we allow the waste that is otherwise being dumped with low customs duty to be imported into this country. The MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, asked that the customs rate rise to 50% from 30% as you predicted. Explain why you can't 50%, and you can't hear 30%. What you call harmonisation with the legal projects of the European Union, what you call harmonisation with the Serbia-Montenegro market, what you call harmonisation with the countries in the environment, we call the sale of another of the rare assets, which is the market that remains in this country and we call unscrupulous robbery of Serbia, the destruction of the Serbian peasant, the destruction of the Serbian livestock fund, the destruction of everything. Everything you've reached has been destroyed. It's high time you said you didn't know how to run the country and get off the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17587	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section 2 of the amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talked about this law and in principle debate, we then drew attention to the fact that there was a lot of illogicality in customs tariffs and customs exemptions in this customs tariff law. You can see that most of our amendments apply to these parts of the Law, which regulates customs rates for agricultural products. This is because we Serbian radicals think the role of this law (and in general the law) and the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to protect domestic production, especially to protect domestic agricultural production. We think customs policy must be such as to protect domestic production. In this bill, however, it is obvious that the proponent does not share our opinion. What has been going on for five years now – that domestic livestock funds are being completely povertyed, that the work of peasants, the Serbian peasants, and that is what we should never allow. I don't know if you know, and I suppose you know, we're here from all over Serbia, that, say, in Sjenica and Zlatibor, there's a live measure of lambs, young lambs up to 30 kilos of weight of about two euros. In Vojvodina, about three euros, and in Italy, six euros. Imagine that no one in Serbia remembered to buy all the lambs from our agricultural producers and to do a good job for both these people and for Serbia. Of course, you don't care. As unpleasant as we are as we talk about this, the fact is that and citizens know it best, don't mind, don't take care of Serbia's government takes care of its citizens. It is really interesting that even this kind of topic does not attract the attention of a number of MPs or that they do not feel the need to at least break down with us when we talk about these problems. The amendment to which I, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, also refers to Section I — Live animals; products of animal origin, meat and other slaughterhouse products. These are chicken, turkey, chicken meat, cooled or frozen, animal meat, legacies, carabatacs, cloves, separately especially, wings, insides and so on, and in this law there is a tariff rate of 30 for all products, and an amendment that, on behalf of the SRS Group, I am explaining here that this rate is 50. Of course, in the interest of protecting domestic production, in the interest of protecting the Serbian peasant. You don't care about this law, but we are now witnessing that people were throwing raspberries on the streets, that they fed the poultry to raspberries, that the price of raspberries eventually came to 30 dinars, that the wheat harvest was in progress, and no one lives from the manufacturer knows what the price of wheat is, who's going to pay, whether it will pay, when it pays, everything is uncertain for the Serbian peasant. Why does the government reject the amendment, accept it, and here's the explanation. It says: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that further increase in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries, as well as because the proposed increases are not in line with the standstill clause which foresees that customs rates remain at the level of the Action Plan, the harmonisation of the economic systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, in order to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital." This is the harmonisation action plan, Cedomir Jovanovic's famous action plan. I hope you remember how much this young gentleman was engaged in harmonising and harmonising relations between Serbia and Montenegro within the state community, and his goal was also to destroy agriculture and agricultural producers maximum. He made it possible to buy dozens and hundreds of hectares of the best agricultural land on the territory of the Surcin municipality and the other tycoons. He allowed local criminal Vojica Janosevic to buy about 100 hectares of the country – and when the president of the SRS Executive Board Dragan Todorovic publicly tells him that he bought over 50 hectares of the country from the PKK he says: it is not true, Dragan Todorovic tells the truth, I did not buy anything from the PKK, I bought about 100 hectares from BIM "Slavija", not "slate but neck". Imagine, all this was made possible by Ceda Jovanovic, the then government, and by continuing this policy it is obvious that this government supports it too. What's expected now? That all this agricultural land (which is otherwise very close to a settlement), a detailed regulation plan (which already) will be converted into a building plot, and rich tycoons will become richer at the expense of farmers, at the expense of Serbian peasants. If there were any sense in the government of Serbia and good faith, then it certainly wouldn't have happened. But, according to one colleague here today, the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Vice President Labus is only shriveling and persuading Serbian citizens that at all costs we should join the EU, not saying what is expected of farmers, from peasants on behalf of EU accession. He doesn't say what's been commented at the Institute of Economic Sciences. I will now read one part of it for the public – a request to issue animal health certificates, their seeds and embryos. "The EU's legislation regulates trade between farms and regions. This requires a system of computer and administrative control in the absence of border control. Trade will be more difficult between Šumadija and Vojvodina than between Serbia and Austria. This results from Directives 64/432, 91/68, 90/426, 90/539, 88/407, 89/536 and 92/65. Also defined are the establishment of a list of diseases and facilities for laboratory testing, again aimed at reducing border controls. The EU has decided to abandon the policy of routine vaccinations, especially when it comes to foot-and-mouth foot foot, foot-and-mouth disease. The measures taken by Member States must be identical." So if any of the infectious diseases emerges on the very other end of the continent, several thousand miles away from us, local farmers will be obliged to approach the slaughter of domestic animals in accordance with the Brussels directive and that user definition – animals that can be infected; which means that they belong to completely healthy animals. Consistent with standards in the field of domestic animals requires the issue of certificates and passports for them. The rules apply above all to cattle, pigs, sheep, and goats, but they include even cats, dogs, and pigeons. In purebred and farmed animals, our farmer will be obliged to have their genealogy, which comes back from the directive, not to read them, there are five. In the case of livestock for now, a strict width of the cages in which it is held is prescribed. It is similar for cases holding calves, also two Directives 88 and 91/166, respectively. Twelve basic directives regulate animal nutrition. It's about additives in animal nutrition and concentrates. Following these Directives, the second stage of adaptation follows where even more stringent and detailed conditions are on: additives, unroasted containers and packings, calculating the energy value of food for livestock, the use of enzymes, micro-organisms in animal nutrition, bans on certain protein products, etc. Beef will have to have a low degree of ossification of cartilage, meat will have a light-yellow color, and fat extremely fine "structure", white to light-yellow color. Every cattle in Serbia will have to be registered, which means putting ear tags on both ears of cattle. The mark will have a unique number, which defines the animal and its origin. Cattle passports will also record any sales i.e. Old and new owners. They'll have to get computers for this marking system. Only software, for database data, costs 650 thousand euros. There are about a million cattle in Serbia. It will be necessary to obtain spare stamps, at least about 70,000 spare stamps. When it comes to salmonella, our farmer will have to adapt to different regulations, because the regulation is not uniform in all EU countries, which will be a special problem. In Sweden and Finland, regulations are different than in older EU members. Once we join the EU, we will not be able to import meat from third countries unless it is approved by the EU authorities. We'll also have to get special hormone testing equipment used in agriculture. Also, Regulation 338/91 lays down the standards of fresh and frozen rays, forms and levels of fat, the form and appearance of chickens, young roosters, ducks, geese, turkeys, EU rules, as well as the weight of frozen chicken. Eggs are classified by weight, divided into three classes. Pigmeat is divided by the percentage of lean meat in slaughter, going to the smallest detail. You don't recognize a duck egg if it's less than five centimeters. For a description of the duck egg, there is a very large notification; where our farmers will, after a hard working day, study such extensive arguments and that is a particular issue. Also, how the Veterinary Institute in Zemun will produce veterinary vaccines and medicines for the treatment of animals and similar products, if it is shaken by conflicts over privatisation, which, of course, is the responsibility of Minister Predrag Bubalo, and there has been a lot of talk on the Privatisation Committee and here. So this is just one part of what our peasants and our farmers expect when you introduce them, one day and one year, in a few dozen years, into the EU. I don't think, unfortunately, the peasants are going to have any special problems with this, because by then... You would destroy everything that can be destroyed and everything that is left. We've all witnessed that raspberries production by this year meant something, and since this year, people have been rooting out raspberries, because it's no longer worth it. So you're destroying one product at a time, because the state isn't ready to help the peasant, because every day the peasant lives harder and harder. And we loved, you know, "Europeans" or not, agrarian and agricultural countries, and we have to take care of the peasant, the conditions for the development of agriculture, and we have to take care of the other segments. But you take care, not of those who sit here, but of those who support you sitting here, taking care of yourself, and of your own personal interests. And we Serbian radicals try, at least through these amendments, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what evil awaits them from this government and government laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17589	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Section II of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed an amendment, on behalf of the SRS, on the proposal of the Customs Tariff Act. In the proposal for a Law on Customs Tariff Section I — Living animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 2. — Meat and other meat offal, in heading 0207; — meat and edible meat waste, of heading No 0105 fresh, chilled or frozen by heading 0207 32, ending with heading 0207 36 89 00, customs rate 15 is replaced by the customs rate 25. Normally, the amendment, like all other amendments to the SRS MPs, is not accepted with reason – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that further increase in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries, as well as because the proposed increases are not in line with the standstill clause of the economic systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and eliminate obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital. The explanation is not acceptable, because this argument applies to all amendments submitted by MPs in the Assembly. With this amendment, we are trying to protect domestic farmers from uncontrolled imports of these products and to prevent further poverty and destruction of livestock stock and agricultural production. By proposing the Customs Tariff Act we open the door wide for importing everything and everything, especially meat, meat processing, milk and dairy products of dubious quality. With this kind of behavior, i.e. by reducing customs rates, we'll create conditions for the import of mad cow meat, we'll buy pig meat that's already been dusted more than once, which means they're too old and not used. We'll import rotten chicken meat that's been sitting in the freezers for months. We will import genetically modified soybean, moldy grain and all western waste, which is not for use in food, but will therefore produce healthy food to the West, or the only product Serbia can export to the Western market. With this bill, we are only helping the import-export lobby to make an even greater profit and increase its already huge wealth. Because of all of the above, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17591	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Stojan Tintor, submitted to Section 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17592	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an explanation why this amendment has not been adopted is exactly the same, and I have now reviewed all the reasons why the amendments of the SRS MPs have not been adopted. They're literally overwritten. The other day, we heard that the amendments were unsurpassed when we asked for some member of the law to be deleted. No one said today, and I have no intention of saying that the unsuspecting arguments that are written like this are literally prescribed for each amendment. But the reasons don't hold water, for the simple reason, that they can't hide the essence of what this is all about. By reducing the customs rate to 30% for imports of products that are otherwise dumped in the West and turning into food for people or for cattle here, you bring agriculture, you bring livestock literally to a beggar stick. You're also destroying this little stock that this Serbia has left. The amendment applies to heading 0209 00 11 00 and to 0209 00 30 00. It's bacon, it's bacon imports, but to make it look "European", whatever you want, then it's called "subcutaneous pork fat". So it's said, "fresh, cooled, frozen, salty or salamire", which we don't know about this Europe or Europe, we call the most common bacon. Then he says, "dried or smoked" (that subcutaneous swine fat), and in order to be clearer in this 0209 00 30 00 you say "pig fat other than that of heading 0209 00 11 00". So, other than this subcutaneous swine fat, which is fresh and cooled, frozen, salted or in brine, there's some other subcutaneous pork fat, which we probably need to learn in Europe once, that's called bacon. There's some more bacon you're going to import, taking off at that customs rate to 30%, and thus literally destroying our pig farming. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you who really represent the MPs of the ruling coalition, how many of you are left here, because they stayed from that part, (see for yourselves, and Serbian citizens also see that) are no longer interested in anything, because at 6:00 they picked themselves up and went like they were working in the factory, and then the siren played that the working time was over. I am speaking to you and asking you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia to press the green button on the day of the vote when this amendment comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17593	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Section 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act by proposing that Section I — Live animals in the proposal; products of animal origin, Chapter 2 — Meat and other slaughterhouse products for food, customs rate 30 is replaced by customs rate 50. So in order to protect domestic producers, I proposed increasing the customs rate by 20 index points. The current policy of the previous Government, and these, to a large extent, then uncontrollable imports of live cattle, meat, processing and dairy products, have affected and affected domestic livestock funds that are completely impoverished. The solutions proposed by this amendment protects domestic producers from uncontrolled imports of meat, milk and milk products, so as to prevent further poverty, and I would say the destruction of the complete livestock fund. So I ask you to vote on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17595	I thank Ambassador Koprivica. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Section I of Chapter 4. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has already been said a lot about the proposed customs tariff law and the amendments to the SRS. The bottom line is that we are trying to protect domestic production with amendments, i.e. agricultural production, primarily now. Since the arrival of DOS to power in 2001, over these customs rates, production has been compromised in Serbia, both agricultural and industrial, and this has, of course, affected the production and living standards of citizens. With these amendments, we have tried to point out to you the need for our production to be protected, primarily, in this case, customs rates and all our amendments to go in this direction – to increase customs rates to all these products that are being imported. My amendment refers to Section I of Chapter 4. — Milk and milk products; livestock and bird eggs; natural honey; edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or included. For the purposes of heading 0401, the following products are indicated: milk and cream, not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter. All these products in this group are prescribed a customs rate of 20%. My amendment predicted that this rate would rise to 40%. The reason is to protect domestic production. What I don't understand here is a technical matter. Namely, these products are classified in several groups: products with a fat content of up to 1% by mass, in a net volume packaging of up to 2 litres; with a fat content of more than 1 to 6%, in a packaging of up to 2 litres; with a fat content of more than 3%, and a fat content of 6 to 21%, etc. Simply, for all these products is the same customs rate – 20%. I don't understand why it's not only covered by one tariff mark because the rate is the same. It's just a pack, i.e. a packaging or a volume of up to 2 liters, and over 2 liters, probably a second rate. What's controversial, when we talk about this proposal, is that domestic agricultural production is at risk in all spheres. Speaking of milk, I'm interested, although there is no Minister here, why no milk premiums are paid. Milk premiums in Serbia are several months late. So, our producers, although according to some decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the right to these premiums, do not receive premiums, or those four or five months late, so I am interested in why this happens if the minister says we have surpluses in the Republic of Serbia's budget, means we have more funds than there is expenditure. It's simple, it's declassified to talk about the surplus in the budget, if you have some obligations on the other side that you haven't met. Too much is owed by the state to its citizens, and the minister is talking about the surplus. I also don't understand why the suspension of the milk premium for landladys not registered until next year was announced, and since this year, premiums for other products have been abolished, meaning for those unregistered households. Simply, in hill-mounted areas, and I've said this before, we have a situation where nursing households, where two people over 60 live, have one or two cows and live on it; they issue 10 to 20 liters of milk a day and live on it. They have no interest in registering, no reason. They have little land and they barely process it, they keep one or two cows and they live off that milk. If you discriminate against them in this way that they can no longer receive a premium, that is, that their milk will be cheaper than next year, they will have no interest in doing so, or have nothing to live on. Also, I may be a little bored with raspberries, I will repeat today – the situation in this area of agricultural production, in the production of raspberries, is catastrophic. This year, raspberries are bought at a price of 12 to 40 dinars, given the class. If I remind you that two years ago the price of raspberries was over 60 dinars, then you can see for yourself and figure out what the difference is. Understand that with a price of 40 dinars, our peasant doesn't have a bill to do that. This production isn't worth it. I don't understand why you're systematically going to destroy agricultural production? If the state is serious, it had to stand behind the production that brings foreign income to Serbia, which is the production of raspberries. Last year, I asked the Deputy Minister (who was present) to explain to me whether the state plans to, or not the government, the government as an executive body, to make a strategy to protect some agricultural production in Serbia. He then replied to me that the strategy was done. That was over a year ago. She's not in this congregation yet. I don't know if it's on some levels or some circles, if there's anything done about it at all, but it's not in this congregation. He then told me that there was no strategic product in the area of agricultural production, that the state would not stand behind any agricultural product. So the peasant is on his own. As far as the market is concerned, that's how it's gonna go. I warn you, this year will be extremely difficult for peasants. We had a cherry with a very low price, a raspberries with also a low price. The wheat harvest is in progress, so there's no ransom. It's just, this year I think the peasant is going to starve. If the peasant comes into this situation, then more, I repeat, it's about the survival of the state. I also ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take this seriously. The situation in our villages is catastrophic. Some measures need to be taken as soon as possible, to at least heal something, in order for the state to survive. Next year, the production of raspberries in Serbia will at least be halved. If something is not done next year, we will destroy this production, and 30 years Serbia is building a brand of raspberries. The Serb raspberries have been the only one present in Europe for 30 years. Serbia was known for its raspberries. Now we've destroyed that brand in a year. Now some other countries are reselling our raspberries as their product. It wouldn't be too controversial if our raspberries here were paid enough to make a peasant live on it. Please, take care, especially of the mountain-mounted areas of Serbia, and here I primarily think of western Serbia, where this production is dominant, where each house owns at least six or seven acres, is a small surface of raspberries, but it could survive. If it's destroyed, and we're on the verge of it, I don't know what a peasant will live on in those areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17597	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic to Section I of Chapter 4. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic. Here you go, Mr. Four.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17598	Dear People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority who have supported the government so far, have acted under the draft of this law as a technical law that should only pass the assembly procedure, but unfortunately, this is not a technical law. This is a law that defines the last fate of Serbian agriculture, a Serb peasant. With such customs proposals on imports of agricultural products, if the ruling majority define to support these proposals, it is a final blow to the disappearance of Serbian agriculture, Serbian peasants and the final end of Serbia's state. This is the third phase of the destruction of the Serbia-Serbian state and the Serbian people under the mandate of the IMF, the World Bank, which is being consistently conducted at Serbia's premises from October 5th to today. The first was destroyed by Serbian banking, the Serbian economy, and now Serbian agriculture. The ultimate goal is for Serbian people and citizens of Serbia to be left without food, to be dependent on Western European and US powers, and to ignore this fact -- those who have taken over power since January 2004, in last year, when the state, business and gross social product of the Serbian state were determined, it was said that in the total gross social product, about 50% of agriculture. Is this attitude towards 50% of the total social product in the case of agriculture, with such a proposal for a customs tariff law and everything that has happened so far, especially what will happen in the future? Can Serbian agriculture and Serbian peasants not be freed from VAT to buy agricultural machinery? There's no possibility of subsidies, except for little of that milk buy-in premium. That is why it can be spent on both the most expensive cars and the fairies, and the apartments in Dedinj, and the escorts that count in dozens, when the columns of these officials start, starting with the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister and Minister of Government, are columns of the ten most luxurious vehicles, without talking about people who follow and alleged officials. Who are they afraid of? Who are they fenced from? Is it from the citizens of Serbia, from the Serbian people? There's no credit. These 20 billion that are foreseen in this year's budget, the G17 divides it by its own criteria. He invented G17 that it must be registered agricultural households. They only have the ability to distribute through these branches or cells of G17, those 20 billion. It is a drop in the sea towards the state of Serbian agriculture, a state of peasants who have lost almost no mechanization and without being able to work and produce normally. I said this is a shameful customs policy when it comes to importing agricultural products. The previous amendments were to live cattle, meat processing, frozen meat, and this amendment I submitted was to import milk and milk products. In particular, milk and cream, concentrated or containing added sugar and other sweetening materials, according to these headings as indicated here. It was suggested that the customs rate be 20%, and I suggested it be 40%. Why did I suggest 40%? Is Serbia, Serbian peasants and this little farm left, ( since many social farms have been destroyed and sold out for nothing) not able to produce milk for Serbian citizens, but milk should be imported with such a small customs rate? The milk premium is 3 dinars. We heard here and from previous SRS MPs who asked why the premium is not being paid. The basic issue that now presses the milk producers, which makes milk difficult to deal with. It's mostly peasants with two or three cows, it's rare that they have more than three cows, and it's their only source of income and the ability to survive, survive and bring their lives to an even decent end. It's about nursing homes that have been for years, so I don't say for decades they've been producing milk. It's smaller properties. And that cattle food they produce on their property, so they used it to feed cows, to produce milk and to surrender for ransom. This minimum or humiliating price of 15 dinars per so-called raw milk invented by those who define it to be raw milk with almost 4% fat, and they know citizens who are consumers who buy milk at shops and at what prices. We also know what these prices are when it comes to milk in stores, not to mention milk processing: yogurt, sour milk, cream, etc. For a glass of yogurt, the farmer, in fact, gives a liter of milk. Serbia has been known to grow cows for the production of milk and for its heroics and extremely high-quality meat of heroin, which has been produced both for domestic consumption and for exports. Unfortunately, everything that happened with sanctions, but neither did the previous DOS government, or DS, nor did this one do anything to speed up this heronada and that Serbia has excessively high quality meat for domestic consumption, and that the government makes that meat spread and export. The markets that once had Serbia in terms of a big hero, or meat, were not even tried to return, but it was neither the desire nor the previous, nor this government to do anything about it. I have information that in the Kraljevo municipality, as the largest territorial municipality in Serbia, over the last four years the number of cows has been reduced by 50%. If this trend continues, with such a government policy (and all the luck this government will not survive, nor will it be supported in the first extraordinary parliamentary elections) for the next four years we in Serbia will not have a single cow. That is why we will import milk from Slovenia, Hungary and through these privatised milk farmers who, in some ways, have created workers who worked in these milkers, and mostly farmers who have sold milk over these milkers for decades. Now they've come into a situation where these privatized milkmen, who bought them for nothing, won't buy them milk and go around the village. They're ordered to have 60 liters every day, so if they don't have 60 liters, then carry two or three kilometers to some ransom places where they determine it. So there's supposed to be a cooling device and the peasants are paying for 10-15 liters of milk left there, 300 dinars a month, which is using that cooling device. It's a milk production situation. We are also witnessing that Bogoljub Karic is now on his campaign run throughout Serbia (how to hire workers by taking chains and locks off factory halls and gates), and is now on his way to visit producers, i.e. the owners of farms in Serbia, who have cows to produce milk. God forbid if the Serbian peasant depends on Bogoljub Karic; he should help make milk and get through it to open some farms across Serbia. (For he, and his men representing the company "Karić" or "Karić Brothers" on Dedinj, with their villa "Jelena", are not industrialists, and at least they are interested in returning workers to factories, nor in farmers, milk producers coming up with even normal conditions for milk production. ) It is an attempt to cheat, such as the fraud in the previous government of Zoran Djindjic or Zoran Zivkovic, in the municipality of Kraljevo, when Mile Korićanac (very Democrats, now a factionist of the same Democratic Party, with Cedo Jovanovic) cheated on dozens of peasants in the November end. In the village of Ruden near Studenica, via the Serbian Revival Loan or the Development Fund, giving these farmers a heifer of tova, which were in the village of Goricani, as heifers for milk production. These peasants are in charge of 100 and some heifers, an average of 2,500 to 2,800 euros. You, who are now running the Ministry of Agriculture, and this Minister Dulic-Markovic could all be, or I don't know what could be, and certainly not the Minister of Agriculture. He should go to Rudno and see what's up with those heifers and what's up with that milkman, because you were once together -- the Democratic Party and this G17 expert group, which has now become a party in these parliamentary elections. It won't be safe in this National Assembly anymore. These frauds that have been committed to peasants and with what has been proposed here are the humiliating continuing destruction of villages and peasants. It cannot be accepted that the Serbian peasant is unable to produce milk and that at such a rate of 20%, customs imports milk into Serbia, with the story that the milk produced by farmers in Serbia is not high quality. That milk is made of cows that eat natural food, without any additives, without any special means of chemistry. But he's trying to trick us here. Even though we are as generations, we grew up on that milk from our cows, and our children, will grow up in the future. This fraud will not pass the Serbian peasant who produced and produced this milk, which is the best quality in Europe and in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17599	Thank you, Mr. Four. You have another minute and a half about the same amendment, Mr. Markovic. Here you go. Citizens have no reason to worry, so the law has not been changed in any way. The parties will go to the elections, not the governments. Also, the law has not changed, and individuals are free to visit cows, as they are now doing, whether as brothers or sisters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will no longer report to the amendments of the MPs of the SRS. I had to answer, take advantage of both this minute and a half, and show how tough this "book" is to rob and cheat Serbian citizens. By listing this bill of yours, on page 141, under 2804 50 10 00, the mineral pine is imported. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the only two countries that have pine mines are the United States, (one mine) and Serbia at Rgotina, (one mine). Bor is otherwise used for some 150-160 products in the industry. I ask you, from whom will you import ore, or mineral pine, when we, besides Americans, are the only ones who have it. That's what God gave us. However, at the time of the fiercest bombing, one of those who salted our minds came to buy this mine, and thank God he didn't take it. The state of Serbia has a mine next to America, the only one in the world. This is what we predicted for importing pine ore. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this really needs to go back to work and stop harassing both the citizens of Serbia and the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17601	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Četrovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17602	Mr President, it is under Article 104 that after the presentation of certain MPs, in particular the MPs of the SRS, you make some comments, but these comments are, in some ways, malignant and trendy. If you had something to say, you should go out for this pay phone, there's Vice President Zankov to replace you, and possibly present your disagreement with my exposure. (President: Mr. Ctrovic, can you please tell me a member? ) Article 104. With your comment, you have in some way damaged the dignity of the National Assembly and me as a National MP. I didn't say governments go to elections. I spoke clearly about the G17 parliamentary group. I made it clear about the Minister of Agriculture. But if that hits you, that's your problem, which you belong to that G17 MP group, that G17 plus party. I don't know what you want anymore, because this isn't the first time. I, as a People's MP, am trying to track anyone who answers and discusses any part of the agenda, as well as you as president of the National Assembly. I believe that you, as a People's MP, are the first among the equals here. I'd have a lot of questions for you, as president of the National Assembly, but I'll leave it for the second time, because you often show up, not as president of the National Assembly, but as one of the heads of state. When, and who have you informed of by the members of this National Assembly, by the board, what are you doing and who do you represent when you appear as head of state?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17603	Thank you, Mr. Four. Of course, if I wanted to comment on something the way you think, I would go out for a pay phone and I would do it, but I have to, by Article 27 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, run the Assembly and point out what may cause confusion. I didn't comment in any way on what you said, but on the fact that you said that the government would go to the next election, I just said that the law hasn't been changed, I have to take care of the law. It is also my obligation to represent the National Assembly, and in this capacity I appear exclusively and never speak on behalf of one, whatever party, I hope for the satisfaction of all MPs, because the basic rule, if you are president of a state office, is rude to represent one party and that applies to all presidents. If you want to represent the party, you go to the party, and you declare it in front of the party's mark. But they're the basics of behavior. I'm sorry if you misunderstood me. I hope you're satisfied with this explanation and don't ask the Assembly to plead. (MiljkoTrović: Not necessary. I thank you. Do any other MPs want to talk about Mr. Cevrovic's amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović to Section I of the 4th Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak very briefly of the essence of this amendment. However, I would say first of all that the Customs Tariff Law proposal has really brought great attention to the public and, above all, to agricultural producers. The amendment I have made concerns the protection of agricultural production, in particular dairy and dairy products. I consider this branch very important for our entire country, and for all those people who are involved in the production and farming of cattle and in the processing of milk and milk products. When I say this, I must say that Europe and the EU are currently treating this area in a very positive way, first of all because of certain subsidies, which promotes this production. We now propose very low customs rates that threaten this type of agricultural activity and production. We must come from one general finding that we are passing this law at a very unfavourable time per state of Serbia. According to statistics, around 75% of Serbia's territory is affected by natural disasters and 75% of agricultural production is at risk this year. If we were to pass this law, we should have brought it in another situation, in a more favourable climate, in some conditions of good and natural age. This year didn't go well, and that's one general finding. We said a lot that this would endanger agricultural producers, individual agricultural producers, but I would say that it would endanger not only them but also organised milk production and processing into dairy products. As an example, I would like to list only one great, bright relationship between the agricultural school "Ljubo Micic" in Požega, which has an extremely good boarding school in its context where all the students of that agricultural school on the side come to Požeg. However, they are exclusively supported from their own income and from their own production. One of the key substances in which they have their own production is precisely the production of milk and processing into dairy products. At such low rates as we prescribe, we will endanger those children to support themselves in schools. If the state cannot provide children with certain funds, then it should not deny them that they are self-sustaining in a highly organized boarding school. It would only state as one example, one area which we will question at such low rates, customs rates. That's why I suggested that this customs rate go from 20% to 40%, that is, 40%, and that we protect this production as much as we can. However, I must say that in the area of milk processing in dairy products, we have a highly developed industry that is now on the tender, at auctions, entered the privatisation process. If on the one hand we advocate a fair privatisation and if we advocate the intrusion of foreign capital on our territory, our Serbian territory, then this customs tariff law will be counterproductive. For what? If we reduce customs rates and allow imports, which foreign investors will be interested in buying one dairy factory, to buy one factory where milk is processed in other dairy products. So, there's one very people's very smart who says, "No one was born to please everyone." I would only ask that the state, if it should please anyone, is to please the Serb peasant and the Serb host and all those involved in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17605	Anyone else on the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Section I of Chapter 4. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to Section and Chapter 4. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a Customs Tariff Law is a catastrophic proposal that will impoverish our Serb peasant and host and cause catastrophic consequences for agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia. There are a lot of questions before I move on to the amendment, which I would ask the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is why there is no elevator, why there is no official price of wheat, why there is no credit for agricultural producers, why subsidies are being reduced in agriculture, why funds from the agricultural budget are being used for all purposes, not just for agricultural purposes, why farmers are burdened with VAT? On the other hand, their competition through this Customs Tariff Act allows them to import agricultural products easily and cheaply. Otherwise, my amendment was submitted on the draft law to Section I — Live animals; products of animal origin, Chapter 4 — Milk and products of milk, livestock and birds' eggs; natural honey; edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or included in heading 0406 — Cheese and fats of heading 0401 10, ending with heading 0406 90 99 00 — customs rate 30 is replaced by the customs rate of 50. So I'm looking for an increase in this customs rate and protection of agricultural production by changing the rate, it won't be 30 as in the bill, but 50 if you accept this amendment that I have submitted. This was inevitable because the policy of the previous government, as well as these governments, is the current government, which exercises power, so that it is very weakly addressed to agricultural producers, and especially to the protection of both livestock production and the production of milk and milk processing that we get from growing cattle. There are two relationships here. One is a Serbian peasant and a Serbian host, and on the other hand an import lobby. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture treats the Serbian peasant and the Serb host as a stepmother, and treats the import lobby as a mother, which should not be characterised by any government, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since we know that the only other agricultural production remains that can give some results and that Serbian citizens can live safer. The reason for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that further increase in customs rates would lead to the loss of trade preferences in the export of goods to European Union countries". I'd like to ask one question now. Was the customs rate the reason we lost our privileged relationship with sugar in the EU? No, but it was politics and the thieving policy of the import lobby, aided by Vice President Miroljub Labus, that was why we lost our preference to export sugar to the EU, not the customs rate, which means that this argument does not stand when it comes to this amendment. I think the government in the day, the parliamentary majority in the voting day, should accept this amendment. Otherwise, the analysis of this bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia states: "The adoption of the new Customs Tariff Act will not significantly affect the level of revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burdens." Of course he won't, because here it's supposed to say that these are customs charges, not burdens. Customs burdens no, they are gone and the import lobby will continue to act and will import those products that the Serbian peasant should produce and need the state to protect him in his production. The increase in the nominal customs protection rates proposed will not lead to an effective change in the burden of imports. So we're still going to have, we're going to import exactly what we can produce ourselves, especially milk and milk products. That is why I reiterate that the parliamentary majority in the voting day should accept this proposal for my amendment. Furthermore, what were the reasons for the adoption of this customs tariff law? It is a priority in harmonising regulations with EU rules. So, when we need to do something and be at the expense of the Serbian citizen, peasants and hosts, it is an excuse only for the EU and for the way to the EU, which I think is one wrong policy, that we should primarily protect ourselves, the Serb peasant and the Serb host, and then see how we will go towards the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17607	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Section I of Chapter 4. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Section and Chapter 4. — headings 0407 to 0407 00 90 00. SRS lawmakers have tabled a large number of amendments and draw public attention to the fact that the customs tariff law proposal is harmful to the state of the Republic of Serbia, and especially to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This bill, as explained in detail by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Momir Markovic, Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Koprivica, and others, explained in detail the reasons why the SRS is to increase customs rates, because it would thus prevent imports, therefore, of incorrect and bad food for our citizens. On the other hand, to protect agricultural producers and our industry against the goods of suspicious origin and worse goods and products produced by citizens and farmers of the Republic of Serbia. I would not repeat what our MPs presented and explained, especially as explained by Mrs Verica Radeta, Momir Markovic, Bozidar Koprivica and the other MPs. I don't want to repeat it and take time, because it all comes down to the fact that customs rates are increasing and protecting domestic production. Then we wouldn't have a bad diet, bad products on our market of suspicious origin, which for years from the refrigerators and warehouses of countries in Europe, and from other continents come to our market uncontrollably, without any customs barriers. We witnessed during the sanctions that flour, canned goods and other food products were imported as humanitarian aid and were given to our citizens, and flour came from 1945, from the Marshall Plan when Europe was helped and humanitarian aid was provided to Germany and other countries, which died in World War II. Therefore, I am staying with this amendment and I propose, on behalf of the SRS, that you adopt this amendment in the voting day, because this will allow Serbian citizens to be allowed and prevent Serbia and its citizens, especially farmers, from suffering damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17609	The amendment was submitted to Section 4 of the amendment by MP Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section II of Chapter 8 and Section IV of Chapters 20 and 22 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Branca Stojanović, Milomir Minić and Hranislav Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milomir Minić, Hranislav Peric and I, have submitted an amendment that is technically very large and I do not want to read at all. I'll try to explain the essence of the amendment. He's quite extensive, and the main thing is to try to adopt this amendment, protect domestic production, this time, not livestock, but fruit-wine construction. Namely, the fact is known (or else I come from a part that is fruit-wine-radar) that our country is a good producer of fruit and fruit products. Unfortunately, we are faced with the fact that in recent years, I say on purpose in recent years, at certain intervals, unfortunately, always awkward for our domestic production, a certain amount of goods, or fruit, which is otherwise abundant in our country. That's how the price was killed, as our peasants say, domestic production and domestic fruit. Unfortunately, due to underdeveloped and underdeveloped capacities, which calls for this country, when it comes to fruit-winning production, first of all, fruit and inability to process fruit into several stages of processing, fruit concentrates that have an exceptional price on the world market, flooded markets with imported apples have led to our domestic apples and home fruit ending practically in the helmets, therefore, for the production of brandy which is not so bad, but to a good and good percentage, it was practically thrown. As I said, the purpose of this amendment is to increase, and we in the SPS took care when we talked about this, to make the increase in customs protection less drastic, because we didn't think in this way that we were jeopardizing the preferences that the government had responded to this amendment, that is, to compromise the possibility and that our country would get the preferences to export certain products. We thought it was reasonable for these amendments to be adopted. Having no other options and no longer wanting to keep your attention on your problem, I urge MPs of the National Assembly to support this amendment in the voting day, because we think that really increasing the customs tariffs for fruit, fruit processing, brandy, natural brandy and wine is a good measure for our agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17611	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17612	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the 2000 election campaign in numerous villages, I cited that Serbia imported 56,000 tonnes of apples in the year in which virtually no one bought one kilogram of apples in Serbia. What counterpart Brance Stojanovic is talking about in the amendment, along with counterparts Peric and Minic, has something to do with it. Of course, I don't mind that the price of agricultural products, fruits, vegetables, any other iron price in Serbia thus providing Serbian citizens with a cheaper, better and better quality offer, but the question is what is more expensive here, what is a higher risk, because also as a colleague Brance Stojanovic lives in a region that has highlighted the fruit, agricultural end. Unfortunately, it's no longer a vineyard, long since the vineyards were unearthed. The state must have an instrument to balance this matter, not to come out of the framework of the market concept and the definition that the market economy is fighting for its position under the sun in Europe, as it exists here now, without jeopardising the basic agricultural, fruit and vineyard production in Serbia. I know this is very difficult, but the responsible government must have an answer to this question. I remind you, these days in western Serbia of the flood, before that in Banat, and then in western Serbia, and now the city has practically destroyed all crops. The other day, I was looking at a peasant from Osecina by means of a state television that turned his hands into a handful and held pieces of ice and several broken green nuts. It's the black ones that broke their hands. They fed us all, more or less, and sent us here. When it happens to him once, then once again, when the state can't help him, when it allows non-critical imports, when what he has has no one to sell, then it's an irresponsible policy against the country and the peasants. That's why it would be good, (and this amendment is trying to iron what we're talking about and it can help) to do something better than it's proposed to protect domestic production, although of course I know I'm taking a risk now and I can be told that this is how the principles of the market, free trade and a lot of other things are being violated. And in America, the peasants are bought out of wheat one year to the last grain. The price is regulated, and then, in one way or another, depending on supply and demand, it is regulated because one production is very expensive. There's no fruit in full fruit until after five or more years. Fruit isn't a carrot to grow by a year, so then sell it and take out the money you've invested. Long-term plantations require great care, demand large investments, no favourable loans yet, so it would be important for colleagues to accept this amendment. This amendment is meaningful, it is fully in line with all parties' political programmes. We've all been saying that we're going to protect the peasants, here, this is an opportunity, and so I'm asking my colleagues to back this up. Let them study it one more time, I know it's a lot of amendments, it makes sense, and we can help make it better than suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17613	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section III, the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I must establish an atmosphere in this house. So here it is present, I count 25 MPs, no government representative present. We're talking about something here. I'm afraid that's not good enough to get to the ears of those who should decide whether any of this is right or wrong. In that sense, I think that we should eventually agree on a change in the Rules of Procedure, and when the Government itself does not want to respect us that, through the Rules of Procedure, we simply force ministers in the Government to respect the National Assembly to a greater extent and to be present, when MPs, or some MPs, are not present. There has been a number of amendments here that are very good, especially those relating to the protection of our peasants, namely our agricultural production and the Democratic Party will support these amendments. Now there's a series of amendments that we've submitted and that I'm going to try to explain very briefly, each to the extent possible. But before that, I must refer to the part of Mr. Baralic's exposure. I fully support that exposure. I think it's one correct reasoning, but I'd point to one problem that's been found to some extent and that could be solved. Last year, there was an enormous imports of tomatoes into Serbia within four days, which, of course, reduced the price and which can in some ways make consumers happy, but which has seriously destabilised the market and our production, or our tomatoes producers. It seems to me that the difference was almost 40% in the price within two days. When we did a little research on what this is about, it is simply that there is a bilateral agreement between Macedonia and Serbia that allows such imports, and on the other hand there is no control of tomatoes, or the origin of the tomatoes coming from Macedonia. It happens that tomatoes may be coming to Serbia from Turkey or from any other country that produces it, exports to Macedonia. Macedonia, then exports it further to Serbia and thus we cannot protect our production. It's not just about tomatoes, it's about a lot of other products. I think it's generally a very complex problem for the development of our agriculture, such as fruit growing, warfare, livestock farming. Generally, in all these segments, I think we have a serious problem. This approach to the European Union in some way must be far more cautious to me than it has ever been, but I am sure that in the coming years we will find some good modals. But what scares me is that it's too much to leave to the very stings of this segment's market, because the state dropped out last year of the soybean depletion, and now it's announced that it's giving up dying of wheat, etc. I'm not sure that whole story is well balanced. If those who sow wheat today, or who are harvesting wheat today, but who are due for the new season to sow wheat, if they are not guaranteed the price, if they have any pay problems and if that price has been stagnating for two years, if there is no premium and if they are left to monopolies, (unfortunately, we have a monopoly in the processing industry), then the question is whether someone in this room is certain that we will have, next year, I don't know how much we need, I think our balance needs are 1.500,000 tonnes of wheat. So here I think we have serious problems and I hope someone in the Serbian government takes care of it. I'm sorry there's no one here to listen to us when we talk about it and maybe to talk us out of these fears we have. As regards this amendment, Section III of Chapter 15 of the Proposal for a Law. — Fats and oils of animal or vegetable origin and products thereof; processed edible fats; animal and vegetable waxes, heading 1517 90 99 00, replaced by two new headings 1517 90 99 10 — cocoa butter equivalent — 1 and 1517 90 90 90 90 90 — other — 30. Why? Cocoa butter is not produced in our country, and it represents significant raw materials in the production of chocolate. Given that the rules on quality and other requirements for cocoa products, chocolate products, products similar to chocolate and cream products, which are in line with the European Union Directive defines cocoa, butter, equivalent and allows them to be used in the production of chocolate, I consider it necessary for this position to be specifically singled out with the rate of customs duty one. In this way, we would create conditions for manufacturing chocolate producers such as other producers in the world and in our immediate environment. This is particularly important from the aspect of the competitiveness of domestic chocolate on the domestic market. We have an extremely large increase in imports in 2004, but also in exports, given that chocolate has a significant place in the export of Conditor products. This position, particularly set out in the customs tariff, has Croatia, and we believe that the EU has no reason to challenge this possibility. So our amendment is based on two key things. On the one hand, such a solution already exists in Croatia and that there should therefore be no interference with our accession, that is, our negotiations in the Association Association Agreement, and on the other hand, it is that we have domestic chocolate production that we need to speed up in this way and enable it to be more competitive on the domestic market, but give it some export potential.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17615	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I'm sorry, I just have to say, yes, we're working on a new Rules of Procedure. You are absolutely right, many more MPs attend the session than is necessary, but what is important, although we are considering the amendments on two occasions, there is a representative of the ministry present all the time. Please respect the ladies present. It happened the other day, Mr. Markovic didn't see it, so we apologized to each other. I have some good news. You are absolutely right – the result of the end of the agreement between Serbia and then the SR of Yugoslavia and Macedonia has caused terrible problems since the time when the minister was Mr Karic. There's been uncontrollable imports ever since, that's true. But thanks to the engagement of all last year, it is now confirmed that the Republic of Macedonia will accept the principle of reciprocity, so what ours will be and theirs. So you're absolutely right. I'm sorry I gave you the information, but I think it's useful for everyone. The 19th Amendment was submitted to Section III by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic. Thank you again for understanding this opinion from a moment ago. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17616	I apologize to the lady who's from the Ministry, but I understand that now, but there's one question again, and the other is when there's a minister present. We were generally against this kind of Rules of Procedure. It is my right to disagree with the fact that I speak in front of 20 MPs, with all the respect of every MP present. Someone thinks it's good again. In the end, it doesn't matter, I'm glad we've had a constructive discussion about these topics that are very important to us. We mentioned this problem of imports from Macedonia. But through it, I wanted to paint many other problems that we face. In particular, there remains a very important issue for me, perhaps too fast to leave the agricultural producers' market mechanisms behind. I especially mean large agricultural combinations, where a large number of people are employed. That, I must say, is something that worries the people who work there, and so do I, as a National MP, vice president of the Assembly, that way. In fact, someone just mentioned the privatisation of the milkman. We have a problem with the processing capacity and the milk and the wheat concerned being privatised. The privatisation was carried out even under federal law, which was valid during the 1990s. We really have a serious problem here that our primary agricultural production entities are in a completely unspeakable situation and depend on the goodwill of whoever says, I want to buy milk, but at that price, or I won't buy milk. I think we have a real problem here. I recently returned from one time. For example, in Switzerland, the dairy producer, when all of this is calculated, has a 60% higher price of milk that teaches to be processed than the manufacturer in Serbia. I think we're going to have problems in general, but let's not spread that story now. Therefore, this amendment applies to Section IV of Chapter 16. – Processes of meat, fish, shellfish, mollusks or other water spines, heading 1602 31 90 00 – other – 30 is replaced by two new headings: 1602 31 90 10 – Dehydrated turkey powder and granules – 5 and 1602 31 90 90 – rest – 30, then tariff code relating to dehydrated chicken powder and granules, and tariff code relating to dehydrated lamb powder and granules and tariff code and tariff code relating to dehydrated pork in granules. Why have we submitted this amendment? All four product types proposed for separation from the stand – the others are not produced in Serbia. It is high-tech products that are purchased from only a few producers in the world. Those products are used in the manufacture of soup and soups. Domestic producers are exposed to sharp competition on the domestic market, where many foreign producers are present to a significant extent, especially producers from the former JU republics. Most of you can see it when you go into self-service. It's just that our producers really have a small chance of being competitive. Which is because of some strange ju nostalgia, which I don't see any reason for, at least when someone buys soup or soup, or which, unfortunately, makes someone more comfortable with the taste that's being offered or maybe the price is better than the one that our producers are able to offer. That is why we propose to accept this amendment and thus to protect our producers as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17617	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's okay, the lapus was, and I'll later let you talk about that amendment that was on the agenda. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Section III of Chapter 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic. It was Section III of Chapter 19, but it's okay, you were talking about Section IV of Chapter 16 and when that's on the agenda, you'll just replace it. It's all right. So Section III of Chapter 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17618	I'm sorry, it's obviously my fault that we just had that discussion about the situation in parliament. This Regulation shall enter into Chapter 20. – Products of vegetables, fruit, including fruit cores and other parts of plants (I will not read all the tariff codes, I will read the explanation and I think that will be enough). Those proposals under Chapter 20 – products of vegetables, fruit, including fruit cores and other parts of plants, define the introduction of specific tariffs for concentrated fruit juices not grown in Serbia, which fruit juice producers use as raw materials for further production. By establishing a lower rate of duty for concentrated fruit juices of agrum and pineapple, while establishing a higher rate of duty for fruit juices for broad consumption, domestic producers would create conditions for raising the competitiveness of their products on the world market, as well as for fruit juices for broad consumption from imports. A similar division was made by Croatia, and we want to point to this parallel. This suggests that the EU should not propose this way of tariffs. So again, our amendment is aimed at helping domestic producers, in this case juices and in two ways – it is one when it comes to the domestic raw materials base, and the other is when it comes to the raw material base from imports, so that fruit that we cannot produce in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17619	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Section III. Chapter 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Markovic want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section IV of the 16th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. That's the amendment you just explained. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section VI of Chapter 29, 30 and 32, Section VII of Chapter 39, Section XV of Chapter 73, 82 and 83 of the amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Section VI of Chapter 32 and 34 by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Section VI of Chapter 32 and 34 by MP Vojislav Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic to Section X. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17620	This is a challenge to speak to 14 MPs, but well, such is the ruling coalition, and normally, representatives of the DS. In the bill of law, Section X of Chapter 48. – Paper and paperboard; articles of paper pulp, paper or paperboard, of heading 4802 55; customs rate – 5 is replaced by customs rate – 1; in headings 4811 90 00 00 – other paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and strip and sheets of cellulose fibres, customs rate – 5 is replaced by customs rate – 1. Why did we propose this amendment? The only paper manufacturer under heading 4802 55 was "Matroz" from Sremska Mitrovica. This factory does not produce this paper for several years, nor does it have it in its production programme, and Serbia's graphics industry is forced to import paper as its re-promatter. The proposed 5% customs rate brings printing in Serbia to an unfavourable position compared to the growing competition of ino-prints. As the agreement, ratification law, protocol and annexes with the protocol provides that Contracting States do not charge customs duties or other charges on imports, i.e. that the customs duty on printed products is 1%, publishers decide on foreign printing services. With a 1% customs rate on paper in this tariff code, Serbia's graphics industry would employ its own non-small capacities with available technologies and thus become competitive not only on the domestic but also on the foreign market. I also don't think there's a reasonable reason for the change so far, a valid rate of 1% for heading 4811 90 00 at 5%, so I suggest you keep 1%. I think it's very clear. You know that many of the monthbooks we buy on trades, unfortunately, are being printed abroad. It would be much better if we tried to allow our printers to be competitive and to employ both our capacities and the people who work in printing shops. That way we can help the domestic printing industry. That is why I have proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17621	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Thank you very much for beginning to accept European rules as they exist in this Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) to Section X of Chapter 49. Section XI Glava 52, 54, 55 and 59, and Section XV Glava 72. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Nikolic and Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section XI of Chapter 52, 54, 55, 56 and 59, MPs Milomir Minić and Rajko Baralic submitted together. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic to Section XI of Chapter 52 and 55. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17622	Mr. President, these European rules you're referring to are strange, but we're going to be in the O.R. alone a little while longer, so we're going to talk to each other...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17623	I'll give you back your time, you're absolutely right. If so, it would be like in the English, French, Belgian, Hungarian or any European Parliament. But there aren't enough MPs yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17624	Mr. President, you know this is Serbia. We talked about it. Our Parliament is our Parliament. The problems of Serbian parliamentaryism are the problems of Serbian parliamentaryism. The reputation of the Serbian parliament is what it is and we cannot compare it with England, France or any other country, but okay. This has been our controversy since we changed the Rules of Procedure, and I think we of the opposition were clear enough why we were against the amendments to that Rules of Procedure. You are the President of Parliament and the Proposer of Amendments to the Rules of Procedure. You will, in the end, bear some kind of political responsibility for this work of parliament. So, you, me, and still 14 MPs, 250, as many as the Serbian Parliament has. Anyway, I submitted an amendment to the bill, Section XI of Chapter 52. – Cotton, in headings 5206 41 00 00, fine by one wire 714,29 decitex or larger (metric numeration), customs rate – 5 is replaced by customs rate – 1. So we're going to cut customs rates again, and I'm going to explain why right now. In addition, I suggest reducing the customs rate in artificial or synthetic fibres, cut – in headings 5501 10 00 00 00, then by a series of other customs rates which I do not need to read now. It is simply products that are not produced in Serbia. It is a key problem, and the Serbian industry uses them. If this customs rate remains 5%, it is normal that our production will be more expensive and that the final product will be less competitive than the product coming from imports. Not to mention the possibility of our product going into export. That's why we suggest that these customs rates be reduced. I heard that such a customs tariff law was proposed as some kind of initial negotiating position with the EU, so, let's start with higher customs rates, and then reduce them, etc. It may have something to do with some things, but I don't think those who just need to negotiate are, I say, simply non-intelligent, so now we're going to fool them into some of our Serbian tricks, because we're going to negotiate with not knowing what kind of rates, and they're all naive, so they're going to settle for what. I don't think that argument is good, and I think that's why we should accept these amendments. Accept those that concern agriculture, as well as those that mean some kind of incentives for the domestic industry, in order to make so-so our products (which, unfortunately, little who buys for their price and for quality) in any way make them competitive, if nowhere, that bar on the domestic market. The fact is that we're swamped by foreign goods and we don't need to run away from it, that's normal, but I'm still saying, we need to make as much as possible some equal development of the domestic industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17625	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Thank you especially for not voting against this Rules of Procedure at the end of our controversy, where I stood up for Europe, and as everyone knows, you did not vote against this Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic to Section XV of Chapter 72 and 82. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. If anyone doesn't know what he was doing during the vote, I'm here to let him know. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17626	Mr. President, I know this is some kind of family atmosphere, there's not a dozen of us sitting here, so maybe it's interesting. Those provisions of the Rules of Procedure we were against, we made it clear in both the media and the pay phone. That's our attitude and there's no dilemma. One of those things is just...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17627	Don't be angry, Mr. Markovic, be kind and talk about the amendment. I'm not talking about what people talk about in the media and in the pay phone, I'm talking about what people really do. That's why I thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17628	Mr. President, didn't you comment earlier? You wanted to explain that I didn't vote against that Rules of Procedure. I said I was against it then and now. You sat in front of me, when I told you: Mr. President, all this is true that it exists in some parliaments, but Mr. President, you are the President of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament who has the support of only 3% or 4% of Serbian citizens. The reputation is very low, our rating will continue to fall, etc. That was my attitude, that was the DS attitude. Some parts of this Rules of Procedure are good. We did not want to participate in this adoption of the Rules of Procedure, and we did not, in practice, declare ourselves. Far from anyone thinking we might have been in. If you'd listened to us, you wouldn't have brought a book like this. It's not fair that you tried to discredit me a little while ago. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17629	Excuse me, Mr. Markovic. I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17630	So this is also about imports of repromation at reduced customs rates. So, in general, our whole story is that we have to make it possible, when it comes to importing raw materials, that is, when it comes to importing repromary, to lower customs rates for the reason that our importers, or those who, after that, are making a final product, would have a better chance of being competitive on the market. So that's what this is all about. The same is done, I will save you both time and fellow Members of Parliament, in the next amendments to Section XIV of Chapter 84. It's about boilers, machines, mechanical devices and their parts. So these are the same products that are not produced in Serbia. So that's why we thought it was necessary to cut the customs rate to 1%. The same goes for car parts and equipment. So, in Serbia there is, do you agree, Mr. President, that I don't report every time, because of economics, to expose everything at once. (President: Certainly, it is very correct. Thank you. ) So, within the car parts and equipment sector in Serbia, there are over 120 companies, 30,000 employees. The domestic production programme covers all the above-mentioned tariff codes with sufficient quantities and quality. This sector is one of the most prospective exporters. The total annual turnover is around 150m euros, of which exports are almost 60m euros. The process of restructuring and privatisation of the automotive industry is under way, which threatens their current market position. Over the past few years, our market has been exposed to excessive imports of untested products from Turkey and China, placing domestic products on the domestic market at risk. Surely you, MPs, colleagues, too, have had the opportunity to have a part in some service that is part of Turkey, especially for folksvagen's vehicles, very often these parts are made in Turkey, and they are imported. It is realistic, if not already taking the original part, to take part of a domestic producer that is certainly more quality than it comes from China or Turkey. Since the average customs rates for those tariff codes in the EU are 2.6%, and that all EU countries have a built system of customs protection, which is not the case, unfortunately with us, it is necessary to introduce greater customs protection for parts and equipment. So, I repeat, for parts and equipment so there's no dilemma here, I'm not talking about cars, I'm talking about parts and equipment. We suggest, perhaps a high customs rate, that is 8%, but I repeat again – we propose because the industry that works well in Serbia, achieves good exports, good traffic, a large number of employees and needs to be protected by 8%. I think it's better to buy those parts than the ones from China and Turkey. So these would be the amendments of the Democratic Party. I'm sorry to explain it all at once, but it's better this way than taking up further time. I hope that part of these amendments will be appreciated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17631	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. One more apology for those comments. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section XV of Chapter 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvić. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radojla Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17632	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of what remains of us, I feel that I should present a few facts why I have submitted an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act – Section XV Chapter 72 under codes 7213 91 10 00 and 7214 20 00 00 I have proposed reducing the customs rate from 5 to 1%, and in heading 7223 00 19 00 from 10 to 1%. The reason for this proposal is because Serbia does not have a concrete iron producer, and especially not a ribbed one, and there is no prothrom wire manufacturer or stainless steel wire. As far as concrete iron is concerned, the bill is clear and simple. Over the past few years, around 200,000 tonnes of concrete iron have been imported into Serbia annually. The previous government replaced contingents, imported by Minister Borisa Vukovic before 2000 with a 18% customs rate, and thus poured about $70 per tonne of imported iron into the Muslim Croatian Federation of BiH and another country from the environment. When the figure is multiplied by 200,000 tonnes, it is clear that it is about $15m, which was poured out of Serbia's citizens' pockets annually, therefore, in BiH and other countries, as I said. With the current 5% customs rate proposed by the government, around $16 per tonne of imported iron will be poured out of Serbia, much less per tonne. But given the construction of highways and other infrastructure facilities, it is not difficult to calculate that iron imports will increase multiple in the coming period, so Serbian citizens will continue to assist the Muslim-Croatian Federation in BiH and some other countries with about $15m annually. How do these funds spill out? Simply by having a 1% customs agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and BiH. Since Željezara "Zenica" imports mainly beams and ribbed iron from other countries and sells it to Serbia as its product, which makes it impossible for our import companies to import goods, because they are practically uncompetitive. So by introducing a customs rate of 1%, we would have made the armature much cheaper, and therefore the prices of all the objects in which concrete iron is built would be cheaper. Another important fact needs to be pointed out that so far there has been no control over the radioactivity of imported iron from BiH. As for stainless steel wire, which is also not produced in Serbia, our companies that process and finalise imported wire are in an unequal position compared to competitors from abroad, as they are more expensive for 10% of customs and domestic, especially on the foreign market. By reducing this rate from 10% to 1%, the competitiveness of our companies on both domestic and foreign markets would be significantly increased, and this would certainly increase our economy's employment, as exports of wire products would be significantly increased compared to the current level. The example works, at the company where I work, the sieve and bearing factories, until the introduction of a 10% customs duty, introduced by the Government by our decision, we imported wires of approximately 100 tonnes a year, to reduce that amount to 20 tonnes after the customs duty of 10%. Exporting these products to the ino-market of processed wire was 80%, which significantly suggests that customs influences the competitiveness of our companies. From these extreme facts, I call on my fellow MPs to vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting, because he is of interest to both the economy and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-12-0.u17633	Thank you, Mr. Word. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Section XVI of Chapter 84, MP Milan Markovic submitted the amendment, which he explained earlier. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section XVII of Chapter 87, MP Milan Markovic submitted the amendment, and he explained it earlier. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we've completed a search of the bill in particular, I'm concluding a review of the bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue the debate in details of the 33rd item of the agenda. Thank you so much for your responsibility.
