ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall, and according to article 86, we start working day. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radic Jokovic. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICE LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9 plus 9 - 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDPs and four independent MPs, per five minutes, under Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I am informing the public that there are no other MPs but those I have read, so as not to cause public panic, that false information is not provided during the information shows. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening the Chief of Search. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20924	Mr. President of the National Assembly, the honourable MPs, allow me to present briefly the draft law on the police, which is today in front of you. This law was supposed to be passed three years ago. However, given the course of events that were, now it is time for him and he is one final in the reform of one piece, a very important part of the state administration, called the interior ministry. At first, I would like to remind you that one of the basic mandatory conditions that our country has committed to when it comes to the Council of Europe is the adoption of this law, which is also being reformed by police and police powers. The adoption of this bill would meet our international obligations, which in this sense took over our country and circled the reform of internal affairs, which began with the separation of the State Security and Information Agency's security portfolio, and even now if the law was passed, by forming the police as a circled area of the interior ministry. This bill rests on standards set out in the European Convention on Human Rights of 1950, as well as its supplementary protocols since 26 December 2003. He also rests on the Police Declaration, which was brought in 1979. It is also based on the European Code of Police Ethics, which was adopted by the Council of Europe in 2001 and, of course, on the basic principles of the United Nations on the use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials. Also, there are other relevant international sources. This is a modern legal text that is fully in line with European standards of police conduct. I am pleased that we have come to this conclusion in the course of extensive preparations and various discussions, as well as outright views. Of course, like any legislative proposal adopted during this period, in a difficult period of transition and intense efforts to get our country involved with the Member States of the European Union, this law reflects our success to reconcile high expectations and real opportunities. In fact, he's the intersection of the desired and possible. However, all in all, the indicator of success will be found by looking at two basic dimensions or two basic criteria that this law must meet. First, to achieve its solutions, the level of protection of human and civil rights and freedom in the application of police powers, on the one hand. And on the other hand, that's why the police exist, and that's to make it effective in countering the security challenges and risks ahead. I think, although it seems absurd, it's a good thing it's been three years and this law is just now being passed. Simply, certain experiences from the past period and period after 2000 were an example for us to regulate certain institutes in such a way that they would last and benefit. I must say, I am convinced that some parts of this law will last, especially those concerning the segment of the protection of human and civil rights and the freedom to apply police powers. This law has made a major democratic step in an area that has long been a key indicator of the democracy of a society in which we have lived. As Minister of the Interior, I am very pleased, above all, with the progress made by the Ministry of the Interior and the police. In this respect, this shift is regulated in this legal text. Who was I working with to make this law? The draft law was long and serious with the OSCE Mission in Serbia-Montenegro, primarily with their Law Implementation Department and the Law Administration Department. The Council of Europe, the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the Danish Centre for Human Rights, also took part in the work of the law. As for domestic experts, there were representatives of the prosecution, the Faculty of Law, the Police Academy, the Faculty of Civil Defense, as well as NGOs. The work to improve the text of this law has lasted almost to the very adoption of the bill before the government, which gives a certain quality, as the Ministry of Interior has been fully open to all reasonable suggestions and rational solutions. What's new in the police law compared to the Law that was passed in 1991? The draft law on police should provide a normative basis for the introduction of a new concept of public security. Under the current law, security is provided only to citizens of Serbia, or its citizens, while this proposal guarantees security for all people in Serbia's territory and, in addition, security is guaranteed in an extended range, as modern and proactive work and police access are envisaged to provide various types of assistance: performance, rescue functions, etc. The main intention of the promoters was to achieve a new law to achieve depolitisation, professionalisation and demilitarisation of police, as well as to put the position of police officers in the general regime and to arrange as the position of all civil servants, i.e. to leave exceptions that must be so due to the specificity of the work and authority of police officers. In this sense, all the proposed solutions are included in the concept of reforming the state administration in Serbia. The police law guarantees depoliticisation by the fact that the police director is now in charge, who will be elected in the competition, whose term takes five years and which is exclusively set on the basis of the criteria of expertise and professional successes. If viewed in relation to the current solution, the MUP is quite different organized. At the top of the MUP, we can say without making a mistake, he was a minister; he was the highest elder. Now, the highest senior officer who operates the police will be the director of the police. Assistant ministers are also elected in the manner provided for by the State Employees Act, providing professionalisation at the highest level of management. So there will be competition and professionalism will be evaluated, which will also reflect the stability of the service. In several places, the law stressed the personal responsibility of a person in certain positions, as well as of all police officers. So far, there has been a tendency to transfer competences - from the lowest organisational units to more and thus simply seeking to transfer responsibility even to the minister of certain cases. As far as demilitarization is concerned, in order to demilitarize, and in accordance with the modern concept, the police officer is a citizen in uniform, not a soldier with police duties. So, spells are abolished and classical police calls are introduced. The rank will remain only where it is necessary and where the nature of the business, the manner of command, the manner of management and the rigidity of the orders require it. Also, the solution so far envisioned by the reserve police system, which is actually a component relying on the army's reserve composition, is being replaced and abolished by a brand-new concept, which is the auxiliary police, which will be on voluntary basis and will play a completely different function and role than the former reserve system. A structural reorganisation of the police and deconcentration of the authority has been carried out. What does that mean? Special attention, in addition to separating this operational part from the political work, is devoted to transferring competence to the lowest level, so that decentralisation is carried out based on decision-making and decentralisation based on accountability. This bill for the first time defined what police are consisting of, what the ministry does, what the minister does, what the minister does to the police, what the police do, what the police directorate is, what the regional administrations and police stations are. This ensures that decision-making and accountability is passed on, I repeat once again, to the lowest level. Like I said, the structure is regulated by law. In this structure, in addition to the police directorate, the police administration and police station area, we singled out the city of Belgrade as a special body in organisational terms and called it the Belgrade Police Administration, because there is a lot going on in Belgrade that is the subject of police work. Therefore, it should be given a specific place in the law. The new law in a more complete and precise way defines police affairs, their concept, species and basic content. In addition, we have one of the most important areas that covers nearly 80 members. They're police powers. The bill defines almost all police powers, there are 21 of them, and it also lists the other, although I must say, there may be some justification for the objections of certain MPs over the amendments that these others are listed in the law. We just wanted to make a whole bunch of police powers out of which the police can't do anything. This meets one of the basic conditions that we have committed to when we are admitted to the Council of Europe. Indeed, in the application of all police powers, protection of human rights is guaranteed by the highest international standards and in accordance with the practice of the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. A whole new area has been introduced, and that's police work control. We've normized and covered both external and internal control. We did not edit the outside in detail with this law, but we expect it to be normal, because, in our opinion, external control, and this control of parliament, is the most serious, the most complete and relevant control of the MUP and all of those structures that apply police powers. It was our intention to leave space to regulate the external control of police special laws, such as the Law on the Protector of Citizens or this law that should be passed to complete the system of control, which is the law on parliamentary control of police work, whose one of the working versions we own. The internal control is for the first time legally normable and moves from the work of domestic character to the legal category so far. The existence of an internal control sector, headed by the head of the sector, which is the deputy minister and elected on the basis of all those conditions provided for by the State Administration Act. So this solution is in line with the State Administration Act and the Civil Service Act. So far, internal control has been called the Inspectorate General and the Inspector General. However, we have inspectors' calls in both criminal and border police, so this name is appropriate to the Civil Service Act. Otherwise, the powers are broad, only with the necessary limitations. In addition to the internal control sector, which will control the application of police powers, internal financial control of budget spending has been provided. This internal financial control is actually an imperative of the Budgetary System Act and it is incorporated into this law as a control that will take care of how budgets are spent, which will control all purchases and all that is related to spending budget money. For the first time, this law regulates all forms of co-operation, both in national frameworks, for the first time and in international co-operation. This is a matter of great importance, so our country's position depends largely on success in international co-operation, conducted by the police and the ministry. What does police cooperation mean? Police co-operation simply means rapid communication, exchange of information, notification, taking joint actions and anything that does not suffer slowness, and requires urgent response and action, especially when it comes to organised crime. Serbia is ready to be a reliable partner to countries in the region and Europe and all in joint efforts to ensure stability and to oppose organised crime or possibly all other forms of cross-border crime. Relations with the public; the existing Internal Affairs Act did not deal with the issue of the public, while the new law clearly introduces the principle as a principle. The way this issue is regulated is fully in line with existing domestic regulations and international standards. For the first time, it is publicly determined that there is something called special operational means or a "special register" jargon. These are the funds that are budgeted, which serve to obtain certain information and collect facts relevant for the detection of perpetrators of criminal offences and organised crime networks. So far, these funds have been regulated by the interior acts of the interior minister. It was simply not known how they were spent, in what amount, when they would be given, for what purpose and purpose, and whether there was a justification for giving such funds, which should result in the discovery of criminal acts. As far as working relations are concerned, it sought to fit into the general regime of all civil servants, with the necessary exceptions that the police must have, which we could not ignore from the previous law, without major cuts or without major disturbances. A major shift has been made towards the protection of the rights of police officers, so the right to union organisation has been introduced, as well as the right to strike. A budget fund for financial assistance was introduced for members of the families of the dead and displaced police officers, which so far was not an option, we simply could not help those who were left without family members or parents, who was often the only feeder. Finally, honourable MPs, writing a law on internal affairs is not easy, because errors in this field cannot be easily removed, they cannot be corrected easily. Between rigidity and openness leading to the unusability of the police should be found measure and that is a specific feature of the writing of this law. In our work we had in mind the past, the present and the future of our country. We were determined between professional desires and the dangers of theoretical models that could paralyze police work. The standards and good practice of other countries will certainly be affected by the police, but this must be influenced by the place of our country, the national tradition, the role and the contribution Serbia needs to play and which it dictates to Serbia in removing the security risks in the region. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20925	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. National MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20926	Of course, it's risky to speak after a proposing representative, because there is a risk that we will repeat ourselves in something that has been said so far. My presentation, which I hope will be brief, I would first of all conjecture on three groups of objections, since we heard what is being seen through a public debate that has been done in some way, what has been observed through the work of the resolution committees and what we see from the amendments that have arrived today. The debate on amendments will follow, we will discuss each of these things individually at the time of the discussion in particular. To begin with, at the very risk of repeating something, which is not worse, it should be said that this law represents the fundamental reform law of the police, in which police are fundamentally changing and getting a certain new role. The new role is seen through those provisions of the law that define police affairs and define its relationship with the MUP. Namely, here it is applied, one, as all the ministers have said, I will try to sum up the new concept of public security, above all, by the police treating all the entities, all the citizens of this society, to all the people who are in this society, who are found in Serbia's territory, in the same way, respecting the basic international legal documents, conventions and agreements that this country has ratified and who are trying to respect. Then, it's the police's operational independence. As I said a little bit, we distinguish the police from the MUP and, therefore, the interior minister is head of the ministry, but not directly at the head of the police, but rather the director. We have a depoliticization. That comes first from this moment I said. So, separation of professional and political responsibilities. We have demilitarization through, above all, the abolition of an earlier obligation that existed when it came to the reserve composition of the police, which was practically equal to military obligations. Now we have something else, and it's called the auxiliary police, on the principle of volunteering. We've got an expropriation, except where it's necessary. We have a deconcentration, this time to a much greater extent and as they would say completely, unlike the previous Internal Affairs Act. We have a professionalization. It is primarily about how police officials are elected in the way provided for by the Law on Civil Servants, in the deadlines and in the way of competitions, as foreseen there, which provides for a consistent and professional relationship. We have a different organisational structure, a more complete and precise definition of police affairs. It was never so elaborated before. We have a few laws, about 20, that define police work, or those jobs are pointed out in these laws, except these jobs aren't elaborated. In this regulation, which is comprehensive, it is visible until the end of what police affairs in these types of business look like. Of course, this is about a higher degree of protection of human rights, which directly stems from the need to respect the agreement and the conventions that I mentioned at the outset. For the first time, the law now regulates police control, it's called internal control, but it's better to say that it's called police control. So it's the control of the organ itself in one way that edits its internal control. We have the principle of the public, which here is decadently and clearly stated in the law, which differs from the previous law. The principle of co-operation not only with other state bodies, but with NGOs, with all other entities and legal entities, and of course an aspect of international legal co-operation, which should also be mentioned. Then, it is transparency of the means of police work and certainly part of the change in the domain of working relations, where we know that the Law on civil servants is subsidized to this law, and that subsidiarity must be applied and we have the Labour Relations Act as practically a third instance in application. These are three types of objections, generally said, that could be heard these days through amendments and through work on committees and in public? Anyway, I've narrowed it down to three groups, otherwise there's a lot to discuss. First, it's the role of the interior minister in police work. There were objections that it was reregulated and that the minister had too much authority. Namely, responding to this group of remarks, it can be said very simply and simply that the position of Minister as a member of the Government is specific and there are two possible forms of external police control as an extremely sensitive portfolio within the system of state administration. One form is certainly through parliament and another form is through the government of the Republic of Serbia. Both elements of the control are the civilian control of the service in full terms and the role of the Minister of Interior, except under the Government Act, as head of the Ministerial Resor, or the State Administration, also comes down to this form of control. At this point, since we do not have elaborate control systems in the parliamentary sense, although we have established as Parliament a close co-operation with the OSCE and, of course, we are trying to find the best possible form of external control through the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and through legal solutions, at this point we only have this method that provides for the ultimately complete civilian control of police work. When it comes to the powers of the police minister, it is primarily his political responsibility, not his professional responsibility, for working in the police, and that political responsibility in relation to the entire work of the interior ministry, which, in turn, draws the government's consequent and political responsibility in general. Therefore, whoever can thus be politically responsible for his work before this parliament, where professional powers and political authority, or political attributes, are divided, there is no reason to worry about certain powers of the interior minister. In the end, this law gives a very clear picture, giving the position of interior minister in relation to criminal and legal proceedings, i.e. the CAP, from the moment the public prosecutor takes over certain powers. Until that moment, the minister has certain powers, because it is normal, given this little moment I have said, that the minister also has at this point in his attributes. So everything else practically doesn't deserve a particular comment, and we will, of course, answer when it comes to discussion in particular. The second remark stems from this one. So, it is a matter of certain procedural characteristics of this law, when it comes to pre-crisis proceedings and, of course, that group of objections could be seen through a certain group of amendments that have arrived, although these amendments will be discussed tomorrow on the Defence and Security Committee, and there will be something to say about it. First of all, it is impossible to recognise the police procedure when it comes to pre-criminal proceedings on the CAP or to conduct directly from the Code of Criminal Procedure, for the simple reason that we need to know that the police have no obligation to catch perpetrators of criminal acts and to react post-festum, but the police in society have a strong preventive role. The police in society must prevent the execution of criminal acts and we simply forget that moment in the law and we must know or assume that they cannot be identical rules, procedural rules in one case or another. In another case, when it comes to prevention, we cannot prosecute, nor in that case have we committed a crime. Nor can we treat someone who may be able to commit a crime, in the same way as those who have committed a crime. A completely different set of provisions applies to such things. It is perfectly natural for a regulation that regulates the work of a state body of administration, primarily in a specific way as a lex specialis, even more than that, to regulate this matter in a specific way, with respect to all human rights standards, which are clearly applied in this text, to regulate this part of matter. So these two things need to be separated. I repeat, once the debate is in particular, we will point to certain specificities. The third group of questions that caused the problem here is the issue of internal control. I mean, according to what's been heard in public so far and what could have been seen through the submitted amendments, that obviously it was here, as I said at the beginning, that there was no understanding of the difference between external and internal control. So internal control is just police control, and that's how the law regulates how the police themselves will control their own affairs, especially in the area of security and human rights protection, so as to see how different kinds of responsibility can be achieved, if there are at all, and if they have special powers. This responsibility can be professional responsibility expressed through labour and legal liability, this responsibility can also be a criminal liability and that responsibility can be a criminal liability. So, we do not pre-qualify the kind of responsibility by regulating the issue of internal control in law, but we open up the possibility that the police themselves do their own control in view of their specificity. In this regard, we have received certain requirements from those in whose society we are, which is primarily the Council of Europe and those whose wing we want to enter, which is the EU. So, first of all, that's what we think of the OSCE as part of the Council of Europe. All the recommendations that came today were that those who organize internal control must be dry professionals, people with great experience working in police and even required that it be entered into the law to be an internship of 10 or 15 years in police work experience. Of course, who's in control and who's the cap on the one who controls the police? According to this system, and given what I said at the beginning when it came to the way of external control, it's certainly the minister of police at the moment. In this law, the Chief of Internal Affairs has the position of Assistant Minister and thus secures his professional responsibility on the one hand, and on the other hand a direct link with the Ministry of Interior itself, which is the image of the police minister. Therefore, it has nothing to do with external control mechanisms, which can be established by the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, it has been established through the function of the Minister of Interior, but it can also be done in other ways, and certainly what we are most interested in is the external control of this Parliament, through the resolution committee and in the way that this could be envisaged by the Rules of Procedure or by some other general act adopted by the National Assembly, and I hope that such a thing will soon be done, and all in accordance with the arrangements that we have with the European Security Organisation. Of course, when we talk about these organisations, I must repeat that this law is well assessed by this organisation, as well as by the Council of Europe, and in this regard we have not heard any major objections. When I put this out, I'm going to point out that we're going to have a chance to talk about all these things during the debate in particular, but I felt the need at this point to, at the very beginning, remove or at least say something about three groups of objections that could be read in this House or heard in public. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20927	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, the president of the SPS parliamentary group Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20928	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the law on police is one of the important system laws. During preparations for this session of the National Assembly, the SPS parliamentary group held consultations with both the minister and his associates. We have submitted several amendments aimed at improving some of the provisions of this law. Generally, we will vote in favour of this bill, because we feel it is necessary to arrange this area. It's important that this area is arranged. It seems to me that, depending on the political position of certain people and political parties, in this short history of 15 years, different political parties have talked about the police differently over time. Remember, at a time when we were in power, opposition parties said there were 150,000 members of the MUP in Serbia. And today, there's a minister and he can testify, in the police, and at all in the MUP, and that's what we saw at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee and in the BIA, there's a lack of people, or there are more systematic jobs than there are at the moment. This is proof of how much political propaganda and political action has gone beyond the fundamental course of the debate that needs to be conducted when it comes to such important laws. Also, I would not talk about the views of certain political parties that have a nihilistic relationship with the police or the BIA, who say it is not necessary, as well as Serbia-Montenegro's military, that this should be reduced to the minimum possible measure, that some of these institutions should be abolished, etc. This approach is absolutely contrary to national and state interests. The interest of this country is to arrange this area, to be harmonised with EU legislation and to apply the practice that exists in many countries in the world to us, of course, to the very important specificities of our country, because it is not simple, for example, to apply the principle of decentralisation of police in our country when you know that we have barely saved our country from breaking up in the late 1980s, when Serbia from three parts has become whole again. That's right. The police had no idea how many parts at the time. And the police had not only three parts at the time, it seems to me that she had more parts, because every major city, practically, was part of it for itself. So when we talk today about the principle of decentralisation, which may be present in some countries of Europe, we must always keep in mind the specificity of our climate, the specificity of our country. Only lacks local powers, which also have separatist and nationalist markings, that they have police with them, which they will name and that we are then slowly preparing for civil war within our country. As far as this law is concerned, we have had several objections and they are embedded in our amendments. We didn't insist on accepting all the amendments. Some of these amendments have been accepted and I thank the minister and his associates. One of the amendments that we think is very important has been accepted. We believe that the area of civil protection, which has not been regulated, has somehow fallen out of the legislation, because it is not adequately regulated at the level of the Republic, although some of its functions, such as Fire protection, they've been found in the MUP for years. Indeed, in our country, the question arises when civil protection has crossed from the federal level or the state union level of Serbia-Montenegro to some republican level, which will, in fact, be the bearer of activities in the affairs of former civil protection. These are the protection and rescue of people and property in the event of fires, natural disasters, chemical, biological and physical incidents, natural and other disasters, armed conflicts and terrorism. I would remind you that many countries in the world, for example. Russia, they even have a special ministry for these purposes -- the Ministry of Emergency Chances. There would have to be good coordination of different state authorities here in order to achieve what is necessary in certain moments. For example, now you have this great euphoria that has gone over the whole world -- the danger of bird flu. Who's evacuating the area? Who orders? Which organ is in charge? In this regard, we have proposed an amendment, and we are glad that the government has accepted it, not in order to apply it, but there must be order in this country, because if in such incident situations we are misbehaving, it can have major consequences for the country and the people. Furthermore, it is a very important issue, because of our international status, and the regulation of the police under conditions of war. Is the police part of the armed forces or is it civil service? She can't have the status of a classic civil service, but civil service, without being able to engage in armed forces, or still remains this status of police she's had so far, which means she can be involved in armed conflicts within the armed forces. This is important because, according to international regulations, police are considered a civil service, which continues to carry out its regular affairs in armed conflicts and cannot be the subject of an attack by the aggressor unless it is involved in the armed forces in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We've had a few more amendments concerning the powers to use firearms in conditions where life is at stake. We thought it would be a little bit more specific, not leaving an arbitration officer on the spot to assess whether he should or shouldn't. In our opinion, he has an obligation to use firearms when life is in danger, not only of someone else's life, but also of his life. By the way, I think this country has been undergoing a process of compromising police, military and other very important state services for years. If we want to be a serious state, we need to have the police as an institution, that citizens have a relationship with the police, members of the military, members of other security services, etc., as with the people who defend this country and this people, and not as with people who can be used or abused for other purposes, other than those provided for by the Constitution and law. That is why it is possible that the main focusses of the political activity of certain political parties or NGOs are the destruction of the reputation of the police, the MUP, the military, the security services, etc., because it is a step further in reducing our willingness to defend this country and this people. I don't want to miss this opportunity to thank all the police, military and other security services in this country once again for the great contribution they've made to the defence of states and nations. Many of them gave their lives, and their families lost their loved ones. Many are wounded. I ask the Ministry and the Minister to make sure that we do not act according to the former narrative by Lazarevic, "All these people will be gilded." We must not forget our past, or we will be condemned to relive it. So this is why I want to say that this law should also be used to change relations with these services, to raise their level of dignity, the way they are treated. Of course, their own members would like to change that common fleet a little bit and form as they treat citizens, to be citizens and police as allies, and to make criminals and police stand up to the sides. And in the end, I'd like to ask the minister and us who are members of this defense and security committee to finally put an end to all of these actions regarding Saba's action. I'm really asking myself more questions. Is there any point in us meeting more about it? For a year, we have been here to determine whether there were irregularities in the "Sabbe" action, whether there were human rights violations and freedoms, and I think someone who was in Australia could have noticed that in Serbia at the time of the "Sabbe" action, human rights and freedoms were violated. During the "Sabbe" action, the president of your government could have been arrested, almost arrested, because ambassadors from the West intervened. He was accused, to remind you, that he participated and encouraged, along with other patriotic parties, thinking that something was insulting us, meant the SPS and the SRS, that we were involved in the murder of Zoran Djindjic and so on, and that was used as a reason to arrest 12,000 people without court ruling in Serbia. So they were held in custody, they had no right to lawyers, they had no right to the presence of a family. As you know, the Constitutional Court has declared all these provisions unconstitutional, people being tapped without the court's decision, listeners to politicians and journalists. I really think it's time we put an end to all this: either it was abuse or there was no abuse. and know it. Also, I'm asking this commission that has been working, and there's only Mr. Jojic, I don't see Mr. Mamula, we've created a committee that will have insight into what's been said at the Council sessions, and that council was called the National Security Council. Maybe I didn't say the full name, but that's what happened. By the way, this council has been busy the entire duration of this emergency, and I'm just curious about when we're going to go public with whether it was really up to whoever was going to be arrested in the Sabre action, or were the authorities doing it? I'm not saying this to get revenge on anyone, I'm saying this because it doesn't happen again. Anyone who thinks he's V.D. The authorities, therefore, may think that at a certain point they can arrest several tens of thousands of people, that only a few hundred are being processed, and Mr Jojic says few are being processed. These are the ones who are arrested and that's not controversial, and those who are criminals are supposed to respond, and I'm not saying this to defend criminals. You know how, if you arrest someone, keep them in custody for 20 days, for a month or three months, then let them go, and you don't say why he was arrested, does that mean that next time he's in a state of emergency, he'll be arrested again for preventive matters? As it used to be, when it comes to some visits, to prevent the arrest of some so as not to cause certain problems. It's a long list here in Serbia, there are 12,000 people. So I'm asking all of us together to make an effort, both us and the M.E.P., and I asked the minister to tell us who wrote those famous announcements, and he replied that the M.O.P. hadn't sent a statement about the state of emergency. So this statement, written in the paper, was published in the paper, so the Red Berets were killed for the sake of the SPS, JUL and the SRS. So, the minister officially responded that the MUP was not involved in this. As possible and whoever wrote that, we haven't gotten it yet, and it's suspected that the Communications Bureau has so far not reached any final conclusion regarding all these things. I apologize for starting this topic, but I think it's time that after a year or two days, a code of secrecy should be removed from all these documents, which do not represent a state secret and to see what was so important in certain cases, to determine the full truth about it and finally put an end to it, because every year we're going to talk about each other like this. You need to put a stop to it. If there was an abuse, it should be defined. If it wasn't, then you should put an end to it. I am convinced that there have been abuses during the state of emergency, that there have been arrests of political opponents, that there have been arrests of innocent people, and most criminals have either been released quickly or have never been arrested. So maybe they got the status of protected witnesses. So we will support this law on police, although we think it would be better for the government to accept some of these amendments. We are also pleased with the acceptance of these most important ones, because we believe that this is a step forward and that it can be a step forward in relation to the obligations and problems Serbia has at this difficult time, when deciding on the fate of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, when we have separatist tendencies in southern Serbia, what similar tendencies arise in Vojvodina and when we must, of course, conclude, that is to say, create a political consensus on the most important state and national issues, and we believe that police are important national and national issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20929	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20930	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is an important system law ahead of us and I would like to begin by saying that the basic values of the European Union are respect for human dignity, respect for human rights, respect for minority rights, justice. When we look at it and remember all the things that have happened in our country, and they're related to the police and its operation, then we can realize that many of these segments of the value system have been destroyed. What's the point of this police law? The aim is, among other things, to affirm the value of the European Union. The goal is for our countries to actually build the value system in the best possible way. In order to have the right system, the functioning of the police law, it is essential that the police are essentially subject to the control mechanism. We have seen and heard from the minister that the law also provides for several types of control, but the most important control, the fundamental control, is the control that is being carried out in parliament at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Yes, there is a Security Committee here. This Security Committee adopts annual reports, listens from time to time to reports, asks certain questions and receives appropriate answers, but this Security Committee must play a fundamentally important role, which means that MPs from the Security Committee can have access to information more in the police, they can get an answer more than the police's competent structures, because how else will they implement their law-expected control obligation if they do not know what is happening in which case. It's the core. This is what we have so far on paper or what we are formally trying to implement, but the essential Security Committee must be able to work more closely with the Ministry of the Interior in order to have insight into certain documents and in certain processes for the possibility of giving its own judgment on this. This does not mean that MPs, having knowledge of certain things, bring these findings to the public. No, on the contrary, but that means they're better acquainted with the operation of the police. Internal Affairs is an important segment because it actually allows police officers to have some code of conduct that they must respect and if they violate certain behavior, they must have certain sanctions. Someone's got to do that kind of work, see if they're doing their jobs professionally. We also heard that there will be internal financial control, which is good, and budget control otherwise exists. When you see what the pursuit is, what it is -- it's slow, but it certainly comes out that professionalism gets its place and role in the police, which is very good, because that professionalism is important. Why? Today when we talk about the police and what is public, and in the public are mostly individual cases that happen and citizens are informed about, these individual cases are mostly related to certain special situations, something that the public can follow up on. But basically the police, in their largest number, are professionals doing their job, seriously, responsibly, professionally, all of what we are asking them to do, and individuals who appear in public are overcoming the whole situation. So by this law, that professionalism will be affirmed and that's good. We see that some segments, such as the director of the police, assistant ministers, as they will be chosen by the competition, should be carefully done to ensure that people who are professionally shown in the ministry receive appropriate seats, i.e. to get the responsibility to operate at the Ministry. That's very important. It'll be a signal to all these professionals I've been talking about. When the term "depolitisation" is said here -- these concrete solutions in terms of competition and certain things at a certain level represent some times depoliticalism. But to be clear, it is known among people, or among the people in the police, that when the ruling structures change, there is a situation that certain people adapt to new authorities, so we often hear that certain commissioners or some people in the police change political colors and thus adapt to the new governance structure. We must have a way away from such politicization, from such individuals. I said the whole service was made up of professionals. So we need to get rid of these individuals, because they're just political sleazes and they're not honoring the whole service. What is also important is that we finally have an overview of what police in Serbia are. If we've ever listened to these or those remarks, we haven't had a chance to get an answer to the question of how many cops there are. So an ordinary structure can be made available to the public. It's no secret that one police force is involved in and what her number is. Whether our commendation to have us has made the police more efficient or the number to have less: they won't. Simply, it's a structure that normally works in one state. There's another important thing that makes us all forget, it's prevention. So, the police do their job, but mostly they don't do prevention. She was lost, unfortunately, in the normal functioning of society and the state, the fact that a police officer should regulate traffic in the right way or to control what the movement on the Ibaric Master's office is like, and it was all about the fact that the offenders are waiting around a corner, filming, etc. Of course, we all have to respect the law, but at the same time many are asked to be warned about certain things and behaviors, etc. Next, let's say what was lost once, and it was that the officer all knew in his neighborhood, on a certain street, and he knew what the situation was all over the area. Also, in terms of professionality, in terms of what I've heard -- the police do their part of the job, hand over the case to the court, and then we often hear that this man and that man are released, even though the police have done their part of the job. That's not good stuff. There must be a clearer relationship, that it knows what made it happen, because it creates dissatisfaction in the ministry itself. If professionals did their job and handed over to the court, a man released, then they say, "What did we do wrong, what was that really about?" One better and stronger co-operation is needed, to see if there is a lack in the police procedure of certain things or something else, so let's see where things should be built up. Also, as far as public relations are concerned, I have to say that often, which is a sensitive field because the public's relationship is a sensitive field, because of perhaps deliberately not giving some information to the public, there is speculation, persuasion whether or not certain things have been announced. This preparation and this attitude towards the public must be really highly professional, in the sense that those information that can be made available to citizens is clearly communicated and transmitted. So we're on the verge of adopting an important system law. I often hear that this is a condition for European integration, for the Council of Europe, but actually this is the law that we need to regulate the police in our own place in the best possible way. At the same time, it is a law that brings us closer to the EU, which is actually a gain more. The G17 Plus MP group will support the law on police, and we call on other parliamentary groups to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20931	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, DSS, G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to the People's MP, Alexander Wolfich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20932	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the SRS, as an opposition party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will vote against the proposed law on police, although the law, if a number of amendments to Serbian radicals are accepted, could not be worse than previous legal solutions. We have objections that concern, above all, two large spheres of resolution of relations within the police operation; the first is within the so-called the pre-criminal procedure or possible violation of human rights and freedom; the other, as regards the very position of police officers, who, as honorable men, are making one of the most responsible calls in this country, or their working-law status, rights arising from so-called ‘response’. the rights of the second and third generation, above all the working relationship. We'll also have some questions for Mr. Secretary. Why this mere declaration, the type - we need this for EU entry or, as said in Article 1 - provides support for the rule of law in a democratic society. It would be more important if the law on police were in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it would support the rule of law, not that some of its norms go beyond our country's lex superiors, as is the case here. I'll read those standards to you later. In the law itself, we have an attempt to give incomparably wider powers to police authorities, especially the chief, or the authority of the state administration responsible for police affairs, which is the police minister, who has incomparably wider powers than those powers have so far existed and the possibility of numerous abuses. I don't want to talk ad personam about Minister Jocic or any other police officer or man at the head of any security service. I just want to say that it is rather embarrassing for all those who are political opponents of the regime to know that only by order of the minister, and not by order of the court, the D.A.'s office, you can make a decision on listening, monitoring and implementing other regular measures against someone the minister considers possible, which is spoken of in several members, and even in Article 8(2). Also, in Article 10th indent 10, in which such things are indirectly made possible. At the same time, when such a thing exists as a possibility or a broader authority, which Mr Aligrudic spoke of here, in a pre-criminal procedure, we are not against it because someone in the police could prevent a crime from being committed. Measures of general prevention in the law to be passed, measures of special prevention that police authorities take are always welcome. But these special prevention measures must not go to the heart of human rights and freedoms. So I know the police are once tied hands when they catch the worst criminals in this country. But we need to find, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, not to make secondary legislation. We had secondary legislation and today we have as many as you want. We have 150-160 crimes outside the Criminal Code. We have absolutely unsettled criminal law. We have criminal laws, we have hundreds of laws, so to speak, so to speak. secondary criminal legislation. God's father can't figure out what a crime is and what it isn't. You now have them past the CAP, beyond what we have prescribed in the CAP, which will cause problems and judges, lawyers and all those involved. So they will cause terrible problems to those involved in the process. Because now there's another law that regulates the substance of the CAP. Someone will say -- we couldn't predict all the situations in the CAP, because sometimes the police have to listen, keep it off guard, to see if he meant to commit a crime or not. And then he gets out of custody, comes out with a detention measure, and it's said, there's no criminal record, of course, there's no indictment, there's no act that would be charged with who was in such a hurry and harassed manner. That's what represents a key remark at this point. On the other hand, they are not sufficiently in the interest of police officers of regulated standards concerning the labour relationship with regard to the duties and rights of police officers. Their duties are, of course, incomparably greater than everyone else, but their rights must be more significant. Work longer than full-time, delaying or terminating annual vacations require if nothing else then more significant rights for police officers themselves, and require today, we have not talked about this openly, greater incomes for all people in the police. I know what the IMF's demands are, I know what pressures you're under as the Serbian government and I know what you're looking for. But if these started with Boris Tadic, continued with Davinic, I see it continues, this process of destroying our army. Stop the police's collapse. Increase people's wages, increase their incomes so that these people can work in accordance with the law, that they can fight crime in a much more serious way than they do today, not wait for an opportunity, to feed their children, as well as in what way 500 or thousands of dinars will take from the one they stop on the street. True, they're rare, one in a hundred, maybe one in a thousand, but there are, not because they're criminogenic, but because they're forced, I don't think it can be justified in any way, by the gravity of the economic situation. I have one question, and I demand Mr. Jocic's statement. Since the country is run by an open hack and haranga against the SRS, it is run by individual media, run by full power, it seems that everyone in this country forgets who is ruling Serbia today. Today, the Serbian government is ruled by Vojislav Kostunica, made up of DSS, G17 plus, SPS, SPO, New Serbia, the ruling Serbian president from the DS. Part of the party in power boasts and says they're going to war against radicals. I told them not to take a hammer to the bar. We're not afraid of their attacks, their inventions. I'm asking the minister of police, I don't know if you've read the newspaper, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to answer immediately. One of your ministers or deputy ministers, I don't know what it is, or else it's from the Wolf Draskovic party, said in the paper today, "Radicals sent trucks of murderers to our members, killed and burned people alive, and now they're rolling guns, which is the manner of their municipality president in Ruma." That's a lie, man had a phone holster, but with liars it's not worth talking to. I don't care about that in Ruma. I'm interested in you answering who we burned, Mr. Minister, in a live movement and not being arrested immediately. Mr. Jocic, I'm asking you to go out for a pay phone right now and tell me if this man is a liar, because it's serious stuff, or I'm asking you to arrest me as soon as I leave the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't, you will face fierce criticism, and not quite rational, in the afternoon part of the session, because these charges, as hard as possible, are looking for an explanation. I've filed charges of criminal charges to the D.A. and I'm prepared for the truthfulness or untrueness of those claims that I answer and that I go behind bars unless that's true. Lies like this, or you'll tell them they're liars, because you're the minister of police. I don't care about your coalition, Mr. Jocic, I don't care about your government. There's something much more important than that: is it true or not? Did radicals burn someone alive? That's my question for you. Since some ministers and some people in power are able to say these things, then they're surprised when you tell them and tell them -- it's awfully primitive when you tell them what character traits are and continue to act against those who don't have any contact with the government for five years, who didn't want to take part in the transitional government anywhere or in any way. Then it shows clearly why the government's hysteria today in Serbia against Serbian radicals. I'll tell you why. Now I'm going to tell you about this Ruma. You know what this lie about a gun is all about? Because several former authorities in Ruma have been charged with stealing 7.5 million in the housing fund. That's why the story had to be made up, so the cell phone turned into a gun. One of us lies, and then all the liars get to it, but that's all the little things, that's all nonsense. I'm asking, Mr. Minister, who we burned alive and go out there right now to tell if we are or if your colleague is a liar, and to find out once and for all. And now I'm telling you, your government is so scared of both DS and SPO and everyone else, just because there's a system change if the election wins radicals, because they know there's no trade anymore. I gave you the business space, you gave me the stock in this company, I gave you this company, you gave me that company. Because we're gonna chase thieves and criminals, that's why they're so scared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20933	The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20934	Very short. I'm not familiar with whether you or the members of your party burned anyone. I would also not conclude on the basis of newspaper articles the authenticity of the statement of who was quoted as giving it. In any case, the statement deserves attention, deserves to be checked and to see if there is any knowledge of what is stated in the text. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Wolfie, I don't want to arrest you, because there's not enough reason, there's no reason at all, but we're going to normally check everything out. For you personally, I've known you for a long time, I'm sure they wouldn't do anything like that. Either way, we'll see if that statement is given as it's written in the paper and see what it means and what it's known about these claims.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20935	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think it was funny, Mr. Jocic might have been fun to go out, I didn't think it was funny not because I know, as Mr. Jocic knows, and everyone in this room he meant. He meant it to his coalition partners, so he forgot in a moment. He meant the case of Ivan Stambolic, but he forgot that he did not support the SRS government of Serbia, but some other parties, but I do not care. He said it here directly about the SRS and you don't have to be cynical or ironic or to think about what you're going to or how you're going to be. Yeah, I'm asking you to arrest us right now and check it out right now. If someone were burning people alive, and you hadn't met or found out, it would have been too much for Serbia and it wouldn't have been a good thing to talk about the state of the rule of law in our country. So if we burned in a live movement, not only should we be arrested, but no one should ever get out of jail from us. That's what's true. Now I'm gonna talk about something else. I can no longer talk about Minister Jocic's response, which seeks not to be too hard on coalition partners, although it is clear to him that nonsense is what they said. So, after these things, after these claims, you show up and say, "Hey, you in the SRS, be polite, be good, because if you say any harder word on all this against the government of Serbia or against someone, you're not decent, you're primitive, you're savage." And you're nice, you're the nicest to accuse people of burning someone alive. What a fineness. So Tom Nikolic is going to be charged with killing women in Antino or I don't know where. Where's their evidence? There isn't. It'll take 15 days and it'll take a man 15 days to stand up to be a murderer and say nothing to anyone, so he doesn't accidentally cross the word over his lips, because then he'll be a receiver and a savage. Is that your policy, is that what you're talking about here? Then you say-- someone gets mad. So somebody tell you you killed someone. One day someone will tell you, you burned someone alive, so you can see how you will react. Serbia deserves, it is always the authority that determines and shows how political relations will be in the country, what level and summary of political conflicts they will be. Let the good whole government, all the government, all the government parties and this minister or deputy minister who lies like this think well before they say such nonsense, because they then make such relations in the country. You want to threaten us, you say you want a war against the SRS. Is that it? Okay, you're a great power, we're an opposition. You want the war against the SRS, it's time to kill them, end them, ban them, whatever you want. You want that? (Chairman: Time) It's not time, now I'll finish when I want. You want a war? We will not fight political opponents in any way. But if you think you scared us, you didn't scare us at all. Don't invite people to the streets, 'cause it's gonna end badly. Because there are many more people behind us than behind you. It's better for politicians to discuss it themselves. That's why I didn't joke before, I asked Mr. Jocic for a serious answer, a very serious and responsible answer because, Mr. Jocic, to tell one of you that you burned someone in a living movement, what would you do? I expect you in the course of the day, check the police files with every possible possibility of burning someone alive, or we haven't, and let us know during the day, and then officially announce that this minister is a liar, according to police knowledge. It's no secret, we just want to hear it from our police. (Chairman: Mr. Wolfie, please. I'll finish, Mr. Mikhailovich, thank you, you're very kind. That is why I invite you not to create a state of affairs in Serbia that you do not need to make it, and you are making it worse and worse. You want to bring Serbia to the brink of political conflicts, to the brink of political war right before the decisive talks on the future of Kosovo and Metohija, on what will happen to the Republika Srpska due to the great pressures, both in our Vojvodina and in all parts of Serbia. Not because we need your help or your compassion. We are not afraid, I promise you all, especially these yellows and those from the SPS, we will stand up to you at every step, every place, and every allowed civilised and democratic way, and we will not lie about you burning someone, because you haven't, but you have stolen, kidnapped and robbed Serbia, and for that you will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20937	As an authorised representative, please. Mr. Jojic, the debate has begun, but I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, when it comes to the adoption of a new police law, it should be said that the organisation and reform of the police in the former SFRY went through various historical and social political circumstances, starting in 1945 until today, with the police being involved in the function of a single-party system from 1945 until 1990. Police reform is in line with the current one-party findings, the constitutions that were brought in again in 1945, 1948, 1953, 1966, 1970, 1971, not to list the years when police reforms were carried out, but all in the role of police abuse for political purposes. It is particularly characteristic that police, seen in the near historical past, were known in the post of Joseph Broz's politics during a forced ransom period in 1946, 1948 and 1950. Many are familiar with the fact that the service of national security at the time ripped out their mustaches and took away what was not necessary for them to stay for the poor to eat. Police reform was particularly impacted in 1966 by the order of Josip Broz, Edward Kardeli and similar to him, when all personnel in important places who were from Serbia were removed from the service of the internal affairs authorities, and their key places of separatists came, breaking down the state in 1966, 1968, 1971, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the political inexperience has been particularly characteristic in the period from 1945 to 1970, when they dealt with the well-known Ravnog movement of General Draža Mihailovic. It is known that members of the Ravnogore Movement were passing during that period of time. Why am I saying this today? I'm saying to remind you of the past, how the interior services in the past have been used for political purposes to preserve the single-party government. These were reasoned and well-intentioned warnings of the importance and necessity of a fundamental reform of our police. It is not necessary to easily approach police reform and to adopt this law without a fundamental debate in the interest of the rule of law, and the result must be that the Assembly must set priorities and methodology for police reform, as a service that must ensure the protection and lives of citizens, their property and state. We can't let the shape change instead of changing the essence. I believe that the political concept must be abandoned – pressures and principles – otherwise risky for police reform. It is time, following the adoption of a new Code of Criminal Procedure, for reforms, organisations, powers and responsibilities of police officers to comply with the Constitutional Charter of Serbia-Montenegro, then for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be synchronised with the new Criminal Procedure Act. The Serbian Radical Party is against any demagogue persuasion of the public that things have become much better. If you're looking at jobs, assignments, and police powers, you have to go from one notoristic fact to one, the police have always caught chickens, pickpockets, caught and arrested burglars, robbers, criminals, etc. We will not do anything new now, nor will anything new happen if someone from the EU has told us today that we have to pass a law on police, and the essence will not change. The jobs and tasks of members of the Internal Affairs Service sometimes as they were called and now the police will not change, but what is important is that if the EU wants to reorganize the police and pass a new law, they can't give us orders, and our police have 15,000 or 18,000 salaries, and we ask our police to do the jobs only known to them, and in fact, by their concept, we're asking for a law to be passed, but there are no conditions for that. First of all, the work-legal position of our police has never been worse. That is why the interior minister must be determined, ready to open the debate and deal with those who decide on the working and material position of police officers. We want the police to act preventively, to act repressive, we want the police to prosecute criminals and organised crime, but first of all, the police have to be paid. Police powers to carry out other activities are absolutely excluded, so the question arises how will these people carry out with the success of certain tasks and tasks that the state sets out to them unless material conditions are provided in the first place to improve their position and their family. We're hiring the police today to work overtime, we're asking the police to work in a time of alert, on Sunday and Saturday, to work nights, in the snow and rain, without providing the police with a material position. The police, which today should be one of the organised institutions of our country, must be provided and have their status. We're looking for the responsibility of the police, and we need to look for it, but the prerequisite for that is to create the possibility that these people can provide their existence. You can't do this anymore. Every game that comes to power, it grabs itself at the first moment if it grabs the police, finance and the judiciary. They need to get their hands off the police and the judiciary. Why? One finance minister cannot be allowed to be dependent on an institution that is extremely important after the breakdown, destruction and destruction of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. The rest of us are now being guarded by police officers. So the army is broken, its systematization, its formation is reduced to zero. The Kosovo Corps will count more troops and will be stronger if this continues, as it has been for the last year or two days. Therefore, the SRS believes that police depolitisation must be carried out, but the police organisation, its competence and responsibility must comply with the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments. These amendments apply, first of all, to some police authority. We in the SRS believe that they should be used in the fight against organised crime and serious criminal offences prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I did it in 2000 with police experts, from the state security, from the prosecution, from the courts. We Serbian radicals in the provisions of Articles 232 to 237 have taken care of the rights and responsibilities of all the authorities, but this chapter speaks of police powers in the pre-criminal procedure and during the criminal proceedings. If one system code provides for how police powers will be exercised when it comes to calling, detention, detention, enforcement, arrest, application of listening measures and other technical measures to be provided for, we have laid them down in the Code of Criminal Procedure to a minimum, in four most difficult cases. Under the bill, it opens up the possibility that the Director of Police will make a proposal, the Supreme Court President decides. However, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for this in detail, extended because not only the Director of Police and the President of the Supreme Court will participate in certain operational measures or actions. It goes down to the level of operationals, to the region of the secretariats, to the municipal court, to the district court. In any case, it can't be in unlimited cases. Ladies and gentlemen, if the target measures are to be applied as provided for by this law, then it should be said that in that direction, when the police take those powers, they have the right to take them in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, if it is necessary to give the police authority, there are cases that the police can't reveal everything and shed light on it, that's true, in the same way as the Code of Criminal Procedure, but if the police suspect and have evidence that a criminal offence has been committed or that someone has committed a criminal offence, and a criminal charge should be filed, in which case the operative should work. The operation must also work on operational measures to provide evidence and deliver it to the competent court, because what needs to be applied to the target surveillance, that is the path leading to a criminal report. It would be different if it were a matter of offense, if it were something else, but when it comes to the suspicion that someone has committed a crime or that they are preparing him and wants to execute him, in any case, the Attorney General must be involved. To prevent abuses and to remove the burden of responsibility only from the police, let few gentlemen in the judiciary, prosecutors and judges do their job and help the police to shed light, discover and bring justice to the perpetrator of a certain crime. Ladies and gentlemen, the working-legal position has not been regulated in this bill in an adequate manner. I don't think that's a good solution. We Serbian radicals have invested certain amendments in which direction should be considered to improve the text of the law. There are a number of powers and they need to be listed, to know exactly what powers the police have to take, at which point and according to whom. It is not necessary to burden the law that we must write everything from the system law, what powers we should have when it comes to the provisions governing the powers of the police. Ladies and gentlemen, if this law was intended to be adopted, it would be necessary to see if, within the framework of the proposal for this law, everything provided for by international documents, and above all, it was universal documents on human rights, and is this proposal in line with the Charter of the United Nations? The second question, is it in line with the General Declaration of Human Rights? Is it in line with the International Civil Rights Pact? I don't want to list any other conventions. In order to avoid abuse, in any case, certain powers should be specified, but at the same time I must say, and you will all agree, in order to avoid abuse, it must be achieved, not just formally envisaged, parliamentary control, reporting to the competent assembly body and submitting the report, at least once a year, to parliament. What is necessary again to highlight and remind, solutions are needed in order to avoid the abuses committed in 2003, ladies and gentlemen, when an emergency by V.D. is imposed in an anti-constitutional manner in Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia, when police arrested and detained about 12,000 citizens. According to the ministry's report, a small number has been processed, that it was politics, not necessity. It has not been remembered in Europe that 12,000 people have been arrested in two months. Take the analysis, which you yourself did in your ministry, ministers, you can see that some regional secretaries have competed at that time, to report to the government, how many of them have been arrested more each day, whether by a tele-depect, or by way of a detachment, in Belgrade, at the Ministry or in the Government, how many citizens have been deprived of freedom. In order not to repeat this, full parliamentary control and internal control must be achieved, but in no case too much authority for individuals, and discretionary powers must be governed by law. That is why we consider Serbian radicals, if one such law is to be passed and these powers that I have spoken of, should have been firstly launched, an initiative to amend and supplement the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulate the work of members of the internal affairs authorities, and to combat organised crime and the most serious crimes that threaten security and property, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is not necessary to approach the adoption of a police law by order or by custom of a particular customer. It can't. We're against it. We are to improve the position of members of the police. I'm stressing again, the position of members of the police, because the police are at risk. He can't go to the neighbor's office today because he's getting fired. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to consider amendments to the SRS and I think these amendments can improve the text of the law, and in particular we will continue to search this law in front of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20939	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let Natasa Micic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20940	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are neither small nor naive, the Rules of Procedure defines when anyone gets a word, as much as they can speak, and several times the Rules of Procedure have been broken in the past few minutes and there is no reason to do so. If the chairman has before him a list of registered debaters, then he gives the word to the first rather than to the seventh. If that 7 got the word, when he says it's a payphone -- I'll say it as much as I want, then he gets distracted, because it's not right. So it's either parliament or not parliament. When the chairman says, leading the session, does any of the other authorised representatives want a word, and no one is answering, after the mandated representative of an MP's group of words, the chairman violates the Rules of Procedure. So we're building relations in parliament, it's all regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and there's no reason to make it any different. We don't mind anyone else speaking before they're right, nor does that other person exercise any special right, but we should all respect the Rules of Procedure before that. Now let me tell you something about the law itself. The head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Ivica Dacic, said what the group did in preparing for this important law, and I have nothing to add. I'll talk about the law itself and some things that are very important here. Someone mentioned what the police were doing in the past. Unfortunately, it was the police, but I simply ask that we go a little further, because the police weren't innocent since 1946 in reverse, but we had Dragoljub Jovanovic police, we had Bećirovic police, we had police for dictatorship, we had various police officers who did the worst possible things, we had Milo Petrovic in Belgrade, we had a whole series of negative variants when it came to police. It burdens the police throughout history, and it is our obligation to pass a law that will make the police professional, which will provide them with a position, material and any other, that they will be protected and that they can do their job properly, that they will be paid properly for their work, that they will benefit from the benefits they otherwise have, and by the labour law, and by this law, and many other things, and all this is important to say. Cops do those jobs that are, by definition, unpleasant, delicate, that cause a large number of people to get suspicious, but most importantly, we know what the police are really doing. So, who has the fear of police - thieves, axes, pimps, criminals, the worst possible layer of people and, of course, it is our obligation to bring in proper legal regulations, which will not give the police authority higher than what the achievements of the modern democratic world and modern police are. And to provide control that will allow Serbian citizens to have insight into what the police are doing in a legally prescribed way without jeopardising the basic actions of the police, and it comes down to what I was talking about. This law is on the verge of this and I think that by passing this law some of these questions will be closed in a way that is good. It was also on the Committee on Defence and Security itself and on the other occasions of talks on the police law solutions themselves. I want to say a few things here. It would be normal if we passed a new law, because it's a democratic fluid for the police to be decentralised, it would be normal, but it's not possible. At this social moment, it is not possible to ensure that police are run by local self-government heads, that they choose them, that they have a crucial impact on their actions, although there are such experiences in the world, and some countries also have municipal police, some have police that are organised in a different way, that I do not explain in particular. We believe and personally believe that this concept of police is at this point the only possible and because of this, not because we don't know that the police should be decentralised, we will vote for the solution that the government has proposed here and only the Ministry. The other thing is to abolish police acts and translate them into titles. Police acts, it's one fluid that didn't hold up the weather test. We had big complaints, first of all, officers and officers from the Yugoslav Army, and now Serbia-Montenegro, that a number of people in the police without a certain time, without certain assumptions, are getting acts that rank the rank of the commanders of large formations and large units. We had one grain of discord and conflict within the state itself. I think it's a fair solution at this point, although I think a huge number of officers have earned their rank in the most difficult way possible and have carried their rank in the most honorable way possible. So I don't slow it down, but I hope I can make an argument as to why it doesn't have to work anymore. Otherwise, we're a state that's had too many acts in the military and the police for certain formations and certain jobs. There are some other states that have huge armies, so the work of the colonel involves a much higher level of responsibility in every way possible than we have. But it's something to work on in the next period. Unfortunately, by abolishing the corpus system and completely reorganizing the army, we will be aware that only first-class captains will be able to operate such an army. It's not my ideal, but unfortunately it's the situation we're in right now. Ours and my application is to do it in a correct way in translation. So, there are people who have been very difficult to get to their rank, who have justified these acts and we expect them to do jobs in the future, or if they retire, to go to retirement as appropriate to the work they've been doing for this country and in the time they've been doing it. I don't think there will be any dispute over that, and I think the other parliamentary groups have a similar understanding about it. It has caused several dilemmas to be introduced, i.e. defining the concept of directorship and the definition of police. Do we, by the police, mean a set of jobs done by cops or is the police an institution? We have now called the Director of Police and there was a dilemma whether he should be the Director of Police Directorate or the Director of Police. What are some others doing? As far as we're concerned, we've made it clear at the very meeting with Mr. Minister and Associates on the parliamentary group, but obviously this issue will cause a great number of people from the police and outside the police to be interested for some time. As far as authority is concerned, we've given a few amendments. Please be accepted, if possible. In those powers of police regarding the use of firearms, we have written amendments that have the following intention - first of all to protect the police officer himself, to give the officer what meaning he really needs, that not every rat can raise his hand to a policeman when he performs his official duty, and to restrict a police officer from being able to abuse the fact that as a member of the police he has the right to carry and use firearms. It's one of the most difficult human dilemmas, whether or not someone should use firearms. It takes education, psychological preparation, an excellent knowledge of the law, and above all an excellent law, so that police do not overstep powers when it is able to use firearms, and we have said that this is his right and obligation, in one amendment, but the legislator himself has given a rather restrictive version of the policeman himself in Article 106. It's said that firearms can be used with prior warning - "police, I'll shoot," so by warning a shot, it's only then that he shoots. I repeat what I said on the Security Committee -- it's a delicate moment. That cop can cost his life most of the time. It is therefore very important to work with police officers, to have their elders and all others do everything necessary for people to be fully prepared to assess what the moment is when they must use firearms, and it is used, as the law says, to protect lives, primarily the lives of faces, property and various other circumstances that are listed here. We also felt that it was important for the evacuation to be introduced as one of the police powers and as I understand it, it was the Government or the Ministry who accepted it. We've now had this opportunity with floods, as well as some others. These people who had an accident to be flooded had a clear warning all day that they had to leave the territory. Some have estimated that they shouldn't. After that, they put their own assets and their own lives at risk. There was inconceivable damage, and they could have paid for it with their heads. So someone has to take responsibility and say, today this part of the city, this village, this street has to be evacuated because it threatens life, people's health, and in this sense this is one amendment that I hope the rest of us will accept, because it's important for the police to get that authority based on a proper assessment to evacuate one part of the population under the circumstances that I've quoted here. Also, in Article 143 of the Law, it is stated under which circumstances the minister of justice has the right once a year to give money, material or other assistance to members of the police or other occasions to members of the families of the dead or wounded officers who have been killed or injured by doing their duty. I insist, if possible, and of course this is about finance and budget, that this becomes a practice, to be at least once a year, and not to be "can," although I understand under what circumstances the police are financed. There's no reason to argue with what I'm asking here. So I leave it to the minister himself and the people of the Ministry to assess how it would be possible to do this, because when a family member dies in the family by serving, most often it's a family in which he was the only employee, then it's absolutely pointless to talk about what I'm saying here, but it's important that this possibility exists. I'm saying it's set up as a rule, to make a rule based on this member of the law, and to make it one year, and the criteria and everything else to determine only the Ministry if possible and based on the resources that it now has, and also when we're doing a new budget on this, we're going to make an account. In the end, about the control itself. Two possible concepts of control. It can be internal and external. If control is internal, then the first man of that control cannot be above the minister of police. If the control is external, then we can define it as we want and call it what we want, and we can regulate it the way that it's done in some other countries. I believe that the Committee for the Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the only possible external control at this time. Some countries have experience that board members are specifically recruited for this committee, for the Defence and Security Committee. Of course, it is a delicate ground, but I want to introduce you to the previous meeting of the Security Committee delegations, composed exclusively of the MEPs of DOS, visited the German GNI and that one of the MPs, members of the Security Committee, is prohibited from entering Bavaria because the state is looking for him for more crimes. So it is very important that, when recruiting, when establishing a Security Committee, such things are in mind. Fortunately, I believe that the Committee on the Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is currently a real representative of this country, of this people and of this Parliament, and there are no such problems, but it is very important that the members of the Security Committee behave in relation to classified information, various other information that can be heard there, and I do not think it is normal that a member of the Security Committee should enter the operations of the Ministry of the Interior and thus experience his role. I don't think that's happening here. So in this sense control is important. It reflects the will of citizens in parliament. The MPs have the opportunity to do so in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that the principle of external control is equal to parliamentary control and that it does not need that control that is above the Ministry and is not related to the Defence and Security Committee. I hope we have a solution like that in the end, because otherwise, when you have the police in the police department, when you don't know who's guarding the guards, and when you don't know who's responding, it's a prelude to confusion, and I don't think that's a good solution. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that would be about what the proposed law refers to. We'll vote for the law. I think it's time we did some other things when it comes to this. Our parliamentary group is available to help, as far as possible, with the definition of next year's budget, if it does not interfere with other relations, to resolve a number of people in the police's housing issue and to resolve this, which I was just talking about, in a way that the families of the dead and wounded officers once a year have the abbey that has been prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20941	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's Messenger Natasa Micic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people, Marko Krstin, be prepared, and the Messenger of the people, Blagica Kostic. Here you go, Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20942	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in the light of the proposal submitted to us as one of the main reasons is the obligation to accept European standards. It would be much better, and we wouldn't be facing such a proposal if the legislator had the awareness that accepting European standards is our need, not just some forced condition or obligation. Therefore, we would not be in a situation where European standards are selectively applied or severely violated. I'm going to list three key examples in this law. First of all, in the basics, Article 5 sets out the obligation of police to objectively report to the public their work. An important component of the principle of public work is left out, and that is timeliness. It is completely different whether you will receive information on time or receive it within six years. That the legislator is aware that timeliness is an important component of the report, says Article 174, concerning the minister's powers, where it is said: "The head of the internal control sector is obliged to notify the minister in good time and in writing". This way, the minister lets us know that he is more important than our citizens and the public. Another harsh violation of European standards concerns the standard of decentralisation of state authorities, which should serve as a service to our citizens. Therefore, Article 24, which provides for the head of the regional administrations to choose and resolve the minister, is bad; this should be done by local self-governments, elected and resolved, and they should be responsible for local self-government. I'll remind you that this law existed until 1991. There was decentralisation, so this bill is a continuity with Milosevic's system of government according to this solution. The third serious remark refers to fully unthinked internal police control. Therefore, it is so devised that the law does not even stipulate who chooses the head of the internal control sector, although it is mentioned in the explanation that the chief should be the assistant minister, but in the law itself, you do not have a provision that provides for who to choose. The head of internal control should be elected by parliament or government. And, of course, internal control should be completely independent of the minister in order to have its purpose and function at all. I will again refer to Article 174, paragraph 2, which says, "The Chief of the Interior Police Department is timely and writtenly informing the Minister of all cases of taking or missing police actions he considers contrary to the law, and taking the necessary actions in good time." First, this is technically completely inconclusive -- that the minister be informed of each individual case, secondly, this enables abuse. Furthermore, Article 176, paragraph 2, says, "The Head of the Internal Control Sector is familiar with the results of his studies by the Minister and Director of Police and the Minister makes proposals for the removal of detected illegalities, as well as proposals for the launch of appropriate procedures to determine responsibility." It should be the other way around. The head of the internal control sector should have these powers and he should have the initiative to initiate the procedure, not the minister, which is completely subject to the interior control sector's mandate. I agree with those who pointed out that the minister of this law has too much authority. I think it's positive that the Director of the Police Directorate is elected by the Government, but therefore, and accordingly, the Director of the Directorate should have greater authority. Furthermore, my objections to this law also refer to Article 184, which provides for a register for special purposes or special needs. This article does not provide for anyone controlling that money; taxes and contributions are not paid for it. It would be necessary to determine who controls that money. It wouldn't be good to be a minister. He's shown his misdemeanor in his youth, he's relatively young, so I doubt he could ever do it again. Furthermore, my remark applies to Article 70. Article 70 refers to a polygraph examination. It is not provided for the obligation of an authorised person to submit a report to the person subject to a polygraph examination. It's about human rights violations. So, I ask the minister to answer me why the principle of decentralisation is not respected, why is internal control unthinked, who controls the register for special purposes? Unless there's a good answer to these questions, I think it's best if this bill is withdrawn from the procedure. In any case, if he stays in the process, we'll have to re-access to the amendments to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20943	Thank you, Mrs. Micic. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin. Let the messengers of the people be prepared, Blagica Kostic, and Nikola Milosevic. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20944	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, listening to this debate from the very beginning, I am pleased that the internal affairs authority, in this case the police, is being treated as the authority of the administration. I was under the impression that in current legislative practice, the police were still treated as something far more significant, more and, as I would say, above an authority of the administration. I also see through this regulation and through the minister's appearance that we are still coming to one police treatment as a specific authority of the administration, which is very good and what is seen through the regulation itself. It seems to me that from the laws on internal affairs I've seen so far, and I've been looking and reading a lot, this one is the closest I've come to the authority of the administration. It is a specific authority of the administration. As a result, this law is impressive and by the number of members, there are 198 members. In addition to the system regulation, it is subject to the State Administration Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Civil Service Act and all other laws governing matters relating to the work of the State Administration. So it's obviously about special powers, special responsibilities, and what's very important is the direct application of force to the perpetrators of socio-hazard works, which is about direct protection of public order and peace, which is why it can be talked about as a special authority of the administration. The closer the status of the police gets to the authorities of the state administration, the more democracy and greater human rights can be discussed. This law is in that direction, and the G17 plus is why they're voting for this law. Of course, since the MUP is preparing a law on its own work, which is rarely the case with other authorities because other bodies are subject to general regulations, I would consider this law as a lawyer to be quite extensive and comprehensive. So the procedures are quite complicated, complex, but when it comes to the protection of human rights, no procedure is excessive and no procedure is too complicated to protect human rights. The law is very important, because the area that the police are covering is very important for this country, especially at the current moment where we are now. I wouldn't particularly apostrophe, but I have to say that we have an exceptional responsibility for the police both in the south and north of Serbia, at the administrative border, in the control of the state border, in the fight against organised crime, these are narcotics and others, and of course in response to the attempt to violently change the borders of our country, or the Republic of Serbia. It is only this dubiously stated powers and responsibilities that the police have at the moment indicate the importance of this law and point to our responsibility to adopt this law with certain repairs, which really deserves to be passed. I would like to point out in particular that the ministry has shown, and the Government as a proposing, a great deal of acceptance of all those constructive proposals that MPs of all parties here had. I think it's a good time for us to pass this law in a text like that that will really reflect what the police are supposed to be with us. I must say that police are currently recording good successes, especially when it comes to dealing with organised crime, which should be highlighted in the adoption of this law. I'm going to mention the case of Novi Sad, where indeed in one coordinated, organized action, which they all considered extremely well organized, were captured by perpetrators of 2.5 kilograms of heroin, which is an extremely large amount that is unrecorded in these areas. Of course, there are problems in the work of the police, and that is why this law is welcome to deal with these problems too. The police are working on internal control. We have a case that six active officers are exposed to criminal proceedings, the police are working within their ranks, to remove anything that makes corruption and illegality from the police. What are the most important solutions to me in this law? I'll make a more detailed statement about the amendment later. I think it's very important to highlight and inform the public about police work. I think the past period and the multi-party, especially before that, shows that we don't have enough information about police work, and any information is very valuable, and especially the obligation of the police to provide information, which would only be corrected in the case of confidential data, or the interests of criminal proceedings. This confidentiality of information should be treated restrictively, not as so far extensively, that everything is considered confidential and that the public cannot have any knowledge. I hope that certain amendments that we have submitted, particularly with regard to this information, where we insist on the obligation to inform the public, will contribute to the quality of the law, and that there will be little use of the power to limit public information when it comes to issues that are confidential and of importance for the conduct of the investigation. I think it's very important to apostrophe of law, the law says to an individual. However, I would use our constitutional term and term, which is detached in Europe, a citizen, I think an individual is one exceeded term. It is a good norm, which says that a citizen is directly authorized to seek and have the right to receive information and that his request corresponds to the police's obligation to give that information. In particular, it is a very interesting obligation for the police when it comes to criminal acts that are not being prosecuted by official duty, as far as the crimes being prosecuted in a private lawsuit are concerned, that police are taking steps at the citizens' request to determine the identity of the perpetrator when I am a citizen cannot do so. So, it's something new, and I think it's very good to have the police involved in this kind of activity, because I just think that the damaged crime is not the only one who's been damaged by a felony by official duty, but also all the other crimes. I believe that these provisions of the law are largely improving the police's attitude towards the citizens. We have an obligation under the law to bring the code of police ethics. We've been making amendments for the government to do it, not to do it alone, which I think is very good. I think the code of police ethics is important not only because the police within themselves could distinguish between desirable and unwanted behaviours towards citizens, but because of citizens to protect their rights. I would really like that code of police ethics to be applied more than ever in disciplinary proceedings, so that based on one positive norm, we can assess exactly what who did and what he didn't or shouldn't do, and he did. I would like to point out in particular this tragic case that took place in Kickindi. I think that's where the MUP reacted well, but I expect that, compared to other police workers, they have had certain actions that represent the actions of complicity, assistance, the application of concrete criminal sanctions, not just to talk about suspension, transfer to another workplace, etc. I think the responsibility of the police for human rights violations is much greater than any other employee in any other authority of the administration, and therefore the reaction must be appropriate to that. In doing so, of course, I advocate, like most colleagues, that the material position of the police must be improved and that it really depends on that material position. This government has improved the position of judicial officials and I think it is the turn to improve the material position of police officers, because without it there is no prosecution of criminal offences and protection of public order and peace, especially in traffic security. We talked about it a little bit, and there are extremely serious consequences that have been committed to criminal acts, and this year I think there is an unrecorded number of deaths as far as Novi Sad and the environment are concerned in the area of traffic, and I think that much more attention should be given to these people's technical equipment, to increase the number of traffic cops and to reward them. I think it's very good that they're precise and exactly lists the powers of the police in relation to the citizens. It may seem too big, however, I think that if there are so many powers already, it would be better if there were fewer, then they should be accurately listed and warned of their conditions, duration, etc. G17 plus certain amendments intervened to measure the time limits and to comply with constitutional solutions, and I hope it will be accepted. There are certain inconsistencies in solutions, e.g. in holding the deadline is 24 hours, unless it's a perpetrator of a crime delivered by foreign authorities, when it's 48 hours. There is a very good thing that the right to appeal for a solution to detain the district court within 6 hours. The problem, however, is this: if the stay is 24 hours and the deadline for the district court to resolve 48 hours, then the question of the integrity of the appeal is asked in general, because it will already be released and the issue will not be resolved. I think the deadline should be reduced to the retention period, at the very least, if not shorter. As for the temporary restriction on freedom of movement, I think it's a good thing that the court here determines that the restriction can be extended after 8 hours, with the fact that the court should also be a deadline that does not exist here. The court couldn't even order that temporary restriction to be unlimited. And there would be a deadline missing, as long as the court could go to a limit, with that temporary ban on movement restrictions. Furthermore, I believe that the system of control of work under the complaints, when we are already talking about this corpus of protecting the rights of citizens in relation to the police in Article 180, is a rather complicated, rather contradictory mechanism of protection under the complaints. We have given an amendment that contains one relationship to the Chief Inspectorate which is not the subject of this law. I think that if we were to correct that amendment, to leave out the Chief Inspectorate, that this article in 180 would be much more appropriate and much less complicated by the protection situation under the complaints. I think it's pretty complicated, and when we explained it, we saw that the question is how will the citizens manage in that matter. I would also point out, in the end, that it is the good side of this law, that for the first time it defines relations to local self-government and territorial autonomy in a law that regulates the issue of police work as a lex specialis. So far, this has been insisted that police authorities have begun to co-operate with the authorities of local self-government and territorial autonomy, but in this co-operation there was no appropriate correlation done by this law. Therefore, this law provides a legal opportunity for local self-government and territorial autonomy to address the issue of police jurisdiction when it comes to certain security events in its area and to inform the police. However, there is a lack of police obligation to consider and take into account what it has. You've accepted the amendment, I'm pleased, but I just have to point out that it's a good solution if it's complete. I think it's a very good direction that the law is going to allow local self-government and territorial autonomy to provide certain information in its area, because police without citizens cannot carry out their task. I would not agree with the previous debater, with a respected colleague who advocates that officials, or police executives, be appointed by the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, taking into account the organisation of the police and the need for uniform commanding and obeying orders. This is not a general government body, it is a body that has this unique organisation, where it would indeed be responsible for segments in the system that would not work. I think it's a good thing he's set up like that, and I think they might be able to make some suggestions, but that a crucial point of responsibility must be a minister, because he answers to the government for the situation in the whole territory, is not only responsible for the situation in Belgrade's territory. Therefore, he cannot be excluded from the responsibility he sets and the measures he can take. I also think it is necessary to point out that in defence preparations, which are missing in the law, but you have accepted the amendment, internal affairs have close co-operation with the defence ministry, because without a single defence system we really cannot talk about a single targeted state effort to resist the external enemy. I am pleased that you have accepted this amendment, and I believe that by accepting the amendment, we have essentially improved the law. I find the law as satisfying what is necessary to ensure that the police function is achieved as required by the current moment and we propose that the law be adopted. The G17 Group of MPs will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20945	The People's Messenger Blagica Kostic has the word, then the People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic, then the People's Messenger Meko Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20946	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to talk about the bill, I will remind the public that the SPO, as the party that experienced the greatest terror from the police and the State Security Service in the period from 1990 to 2000, is in this House without a member of the Security Committee, and that we are also losing what we have so far, the position of Serbia's Chief Inspector-General. It will not affect the SPO's decision whether to vote or not. Now I'm going to say what I have on the subject of the bill. Slovenians have made one of the most capable and intense police by applying similar starting positions imposed on us by international regulations, standards and experience, which we now call upon. So, the problem is not in the basics, but in the fact that our conditions must ensure more effective control of police work by the government, the Assembly, the judicial authorities, which must be absolutely respectable. Is our executive authority like that? If the police minister and director of the BIA instead of sometimes negotiating with criminals, if some ministers are accused of participating in serious affairs that have not been investigated and processed to this day, then we have a huge problem in how to get ordinary police officers to apply the law. The atmosphere for the application of this bill is catastrophic and it is clear that in such a situation it is impossible to expect the government to depolitise the police, a basic prerequisite for police force reform. The legislator of this law fell into the trap of belief that he would be in power forever, so he made the law according to his own standards. As soon as that law falls, it will enable someone else to create a political police force that will act selectively and may be used and abused against members of today’s executive government. You should never interfere with the mind that beating has two ends. Now I'm going to move on to some concrete objections to this proposal. In addition to a series of obstacles that can be addressed, the most serious are: the high degree of police centralised is maintained, police remain closed to the public and the last, most serious, serious police control is lifted, which of course can lead to major problems. Police remain fully centralised, although lawmakers have tried to conceal the fact in Article 17 that the provision on mandatory police and local self-government co-operation through the provision of security notices, the obligation of police stations to take care of representation in the co-operation of members of national minorities. Such a formulation could be interpreted as the obligation of a particular police station to use members of national minorities as informants. Article 18 provides for the possibility that local self-governments, through the creation of conditions to improve police work, give money and other means to police on their territory, which is total nonsense when local self-government is not asked about the position of police officers on its territory, nor has there been any other jurisdiction over police. The decentralisation of police means the existence of local police, which would deal with security issues of local importance, whose boss would be appointed by the local self-government authority and who would be responsible for that authority's work. Of course, local police would finance local self-government. This practice exists in a large number of countries. How significant the existence of local police has shown recent developments in Vojvodina, when some representatives of the Hungarian national minority asked for the establishment of a multiethnic police force, and the prime minister agreed with an idea that would be devastating in every respect in Serbia at the moment. Local police, in addition to being an ideal instrument for solving local security problems, would have political significance in the middle with a mixed national composition, and international conflicts of minor importance, such as bar fights and the like, would solve local police. Such a solution would be a good signal to the international community. The second complaint concerns the public's work of the police. Article 5(3) provides that the police shall inform individuals and legal persons of their work only if there is a legitimate interest. Such a provision is directly contrary to the law on the availability of information of public importance, which implies that the provision of such information is a public interest which is not to be proved. That position implies that anyone seeking information about the work of the police must prove that they have a legitimate interest. In addition, the view of the 1st member states that police will not disclose confidential information, which is totally fine, but does not define which types of information can be considered confidential, but is left for free to assess the chief of the competent police administration, unless it is data for the conduct of impartial court proceedings. In that case, confidential information is mandatory. I think it would be more appropriate to list the types of data that can, by an assessment of the police chief, be declared confidential, the types of data that can never be made public. First of all, it's personal data stored in records. All other data must be made available to the public, without any conditions. This solution is kept closed and without proper public control, which is the basic condition of every democracy. The third, to us the most significant remark, refers to police control. The proposal contains a completely non-supervised division of police control on the outside and on the inside, so it is said that external control is being carried out by the National Assembly, the Government and other state authorities, in accordance with their powers and the internal police control sector. It is necessary to say that control, in its nature, can be parliamentary, is done by the National Assembly; it is done by the Government, for which it is necessary to educate a special authority; a judicial body, which is carried out by courts. Internal Affairs is carried out by the minister, directly and through the indirect authority, and every elder within his organization unit. This is how a formulated proposal, practically, concentrates all control in the hands of the minister, thus abolishing control. The proposal in Article 170 sets out that the minister appoints the head of the internal control sector and provides guidance and guidance for the sector, which is responsible for its work. The government has no authority to appoint the head of this important sector, nor does it have the obligation to report to the government and the Assembly on its work. This, with already made remarks about the public's police work, means that the National Assembly, the government and the public will be able to know only what the minister wants them to say. In addition, Article 174 states that the sector is acting on the basis of a proposal, complaints and representations of citizens, which means that control must be initiated outside, which brings further ambiguities to the nature of this control, if it is known that only legality control, and not the integrity of police work, is placed in the sector's jurisdiction. It would be logical if it were administrative control, which, in addition to the litigation of complaints on work, also carries out permanent supervision of the legality and integrity of police work, as reported by the minister. (Chairman: Please finish.) I'm bringing the end. If these were to remain solutions to the internal police control, it would be necessary for the government to appoint an MDP inspector to exercise administrative supervision of police work on behalf of the government. In that case, the inspector would be a government official and would be responsible for his work to the government and in no way would he be subject to the minister. Citizens of police objections would refer to the inspector rather than to the internal control sector, and he would externally control the legality and integrity of police work. The internal control sector would, in that case, be the auxiliary body of a minister who would in his name oversee the work of the police rather than the institution of the entire administrative control of the police, which is for this authority and the most important aspect of control. Another possible solution is that the head of the sector is appointed by the Government and that he is gossiping about his work to the government. The head of the sector cannot be held accountable for its work both to the government and to the minister, because it is against the very logic of control. Of course, there are good solutions, but besides what I've said, there's no need to talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20947	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. Thank you all for understanding. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Nikola Milosevic, and then the MP Meso Omerovic, the MP of the people, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20948	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in a country where there is continuity of respect for some fundamental legal rights, the adoption of some new law on police law would not have any special significance. However, in a country where, and we live in such a country, respect for some basic legal rights has not been implemented in practice for several decades, it is understood that the adoption of such a law has special significance. In addition to what I just said, allow me a few examples. When in the time of Joseph Broz, whose rule is still being taken for breath today, was judged by our great writer, Pekic, the judge asks him, "Why did you say one thing in the investigation process and say another in court? "You would, too," said Pekic, "because my investigator's main argument was one foot from the chair." Now allow me a second example that I know firsthand, since it is about my great, unfortunately late friend, our prominent, one of our best literary critics and historians, Zoran Gavrilovic. One day he was called to the police and the coroner asked him to deliver. The man was from the old town house, and his grandfather was president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences. The coroner was counting on him to do so. Reactionaries have trust. After Gavrilovic refuses to do so, the coroner puts him in a corner, holds him for several hours and only occasionally comes up and crushes him on his foot. One very funny investigation, I don't know if anyone else was using it. So two full months. So, two full moons a man comes in, he's standing in a corner, and this one ices him by occasionally just standing on his foot. From that leg began gangrene, the leg was cut off and then my great friend died. I can't get past the examples from some of the past, when he was in power so-called. DOS. Since some of the devastations have already been mentioned here, what an unauthorized introduction of war under emergency mask has been. You know who did it. The one who's so-called. The state of emergency introduced, as justice minister in the government, could not distinguish between emergency and war. The state of emergency is imposed on only one part of the territory. That knowledge would also be useful for Mr. Nikolic to hear. I remind you that here during DOS, under the mask of martial law, a war situation was actually imposed, and that whoever introduced it, as a minister of justice in that government, could not make that difference that must have led to some exams at law school. To remind you, the state of emergency is being introduced on only one part of the territory. During a state of emergency, basic human rights cannot be suspended. It can do that during what's-his-name. War status. Let me remind you of what some bad guys were doing at the time of that so-called. A state of emergency. They applied the evidence procedure by pulling a plastic bag over their head, so the painter Tapi passed away. Then they tied Nikola Kuwa to a bench for 12 days, and then they knew that they were turning to those who were iced, one wooden pliers of nose in the presence of the then vice president of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, even before the introduction of the state of emergency, some basic human rights and some basic laws that should normally apply are violated. If you were able to read, I recommend that you read this book anyway, the book of Doberica Cosic on Kosovo, pay attention to that part of the book in which he speaks about Zoran Djindjic. One day, Zoran Djindjic comes to him, suggests that Doberica Cosic meet, but not at his house, because he says: "You are being listened to." I ask you now to consider this information, whose objectivity should not be doubted, because the book is written with great sympathy for the deceased, the Prime Minister. What does this message mean? This message means that the president of the DOS government knows that an unauthorized listener is being listened to by a writer, doesn't do anything to prevent it, and he tells him, "Here, we're gonna temporarily drop listening to your house, and when we're done with this conversation, let's keep listening. So, let me add up what I just mentioned. All this really makes more than necessary the introduction of a law like this that is now before us or more specifically the bill. I would therefore like to draw your attention to some members of this law, where such harsh abuses and violations of basic legal powers will be able to be eliminated. For example, paragraph 12, where a ban on torture and the application of inhuman and humiliating procedures is foreseen, then paragraph 84, which accurately regulates the conditions under which the means of binding can be applied, it is said that this means of coercion can only be used if it is not otherwise possible to carry out the task of which it is concerned. So there's no benching, and there's no binding for 12 days. Let me also draw your attention to Article 30, which is about listening and which says that monitoring and recording phone and other conversations or communication by other technical means, as well as optical recording, are done for persons in criminal proceedings. So, only to that person who is in this procedure can such a measure of listening be applied, nor do I now, warmly hope, any writer or any citizen of this country may be unauthorizedly listening. To be honest, I would like to draw your attention from this pay phone, of course to Mr. Secretary, to the possible political pressures under which basic human rights are violated. First of all, I'd like to point out what's called a polygraph. It's an article in 70, and I'll read it, it says, "A licensed official can, at the request or with the consent of a person asking for a notice to apply a polygraph interrogation over him. "I remind you that the former justice minister, Mr Batic, has demanded that this type of interrogation be applied in his case and that the polygraph is not passed. What it means is that we had a minister of justice who wasn't telling the truth or simply and roughly - he's lying, and that's one question, but I won't stick to it. Anyway, if someone didn't pass the polygraph, if they weren't telling the truth, then is it possible that no investigation could be initiated against them? I don't think so, but in practice it is. This law also provides for a measure of checking someone's identity. So the one the police are asking to identify cannot refuse. This, by the legal standards and past times, would not be possible, but allow me to remind you, this time too, that Natasa Kandic, having fired a slap in a public place, refused to identify the city police who came and asked her to legitize. I remind you, too, that after that she was warned she had to withdraw, she refused to back down, and that the police then, what she owed, had not found fit to file charges against her. I'm not gonna stick around on the legal side, but I was talking about it, that she's completely freed of any guilt by one court ruling and it's a matter of justice, and this is a police matter. Don't be too upset that I'm going to add to this, finishing my exposure, and my personal case. When I was subjected to harassment at the Media Center, because I don't know what other word to use for it, surrounded by one group, may I say, young political hooligans who called me the greatest evil in Serbia. Here, that greatest evil in Serbia is now being addressed here, whether there is more confusion for this parliament. That's when they predicted I'd only live two more years. Please, Mr. Nikolic, in that contest, it will be that I am in front of you, as far as I can, not on the committee, or on the jury. After that, I had the experience of being printed on my door with the word "idiot" in it. The police are taking the lead, not on my initiative, because I haven't sued anyone, and the investigation ends with the coroner leaving me waiting for an hour, after which I lose my patience and I'm leaving, and then he closes the case, although there are recordings of all these, may I say, political hooligans. But what happens when the police don't stop these and similar hooligans in time; then what happened to me once I was able to say it, and I want to repeat it because of Mr. Secretary's presence, to pour super-paint into my lock. So, the young people in question politically, may I say again, hooligans, understand such inter-party and inter-political dialogue -- you'll say something they don't like, and they'll pour super-paint into your lock. So that there are no misunderstandings, I did not mention all these examples to question the vote of this law, because I would be happy to vote for this law. I think it's a very good law, and everything I've said in the end has a goal just to give me hope, even in all of you, that after this law is passed, all the citizens of this country will be treated equally. Let me just add, there is one common denominator in the case of polygraphs, and in the case of Natasha Kandic, and in my case. That common denominator is, if you'll just let me; there's a dialogue I can't follow, now it's in progress...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20949	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20950	So there's one common denominator in all three cases: it's political pressures that don't just come from here, they come from outside this country. It won't be a coincidence that there's something in one, the other, and the third case that reminds us very much of the American foreign policy prisoners in the country we live in. I don't mind, let every country run its own policy that she thinks is good, but you will allow the foreign policy of a country to be a cloak under which something here will be conducted in practice that doesn't seem like law enforcement at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20951	Thank you, Professor Milosevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20952	First of all, I apologize to Professor Milosevic for using his exposure as an opportunity to go out for a pay phone, and of course I highly appreciate you, Mr Milosevic, and I don't want to argue with any argument you've made here. But you said when the yellows accuse someone of being evil, that you were ahead of me. I'll fight you all the way to yellow for me they say I'm the greatest evil, believe me. Good, you told me we were at war, but you somehow got out of that state, Professor, your party came to power, but so think of those who were in that state of war the other day with power again. In fact, we were warned by a party in power that from that day on in the political war, we Serbian radicals, and the day after that came a statement from one deputy minister that we who threw people into the cretches were burned in the cretches. I suppose the direct cause was the discovery of the monument to Ivan Stambolic or I don't know what, so, Mr Milosevic, think only that you have authority, you have the power to advise - advise this authority not to make the same mistakes that those before them, they almost before them, they long before them and we radically when we were in power. It's an ideal opportunity for all of us to learn from our mistakes and not go any further in the way that we went with each other, and to those who declared war on us I'm going to say, "someone's fooled the mice to be afraid of them."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20953	Thank you. The People's MP Meho Omerovic has the word, and then the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, and the People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20954	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers and representatives of parliamentary groups have explained and spoken from their point of view of the proposal for a new law on police. When it is known that, in the entire state apparatus and in all the levers of its government, decades of corruption has ruled, it is clear why this law is not only of paramount importance and why the creation of participation was taken by representatives of individual NGOs, and I mean "Transparency of Serbia", as well as certain international organisations, which through the Committee on European Integration, delivered certain amendments that later became an integral part of the amendments of some of my colleagues, representatives of other political parties. The proposal for a new police law can be and is only as good as it has managed to establish mechanisms for police independence, as well as full eradication and repression of all forms of corruption by individual members or groups of members of the MUP. If it is known that criminal groups have already reached the Supreme Court, through individual lawyers and judges, then we can imagine and assume what a horror it is in the police, where contacts with the criminal part of society are more direct and where they get out of control. With the right of a co-worker from the SPO, she warned that in the proposal for a new law on the police service of internal control or the General Inspectorate, it is quite whatever it will be called, it is not placed on good feet. If a service that should control the legality of police work, prevents and suppresss corruption, has no independence and complete independence in work, then even the whole law cannot be good, then the provisions of the law are thus devised, all that is in the proposal for a new law may be good. I'll repeat and read part of article 177. The bill, which prescribes the way the Internal Affairs Service controls the work of the police: "If there is a reasonable risk of internal control of police work over the application of its police powers established by this or other law makes it impossible or significantly difficult to apply them or endanger the life and health of the persons applying them, the police officer may temporarily refuse to give notice of the documentation, the examination of the premises and the delivery of certain data and information". I think that what I quoted from Article 2 of the proposed law, unfortunately, does not require any comment, which our people would say, "not a cutlery donkey to green grass". Such a radical and harmful provision repeals all the rules laid down and the principles declared in this law. They have been announced, along with what their colleagues and colleagues from the SPO have submitted as amendments, and you are ordering several members of the Bills of Law relating to the work of the service, where it is necessary to make adjustments in one acceptable way. However, in writing, as far as I know, we have not received the government's opinion on the amendments. We have learned that international organisations' suggestions, which have been submitted in the form of amendments by fellow G17 Plus MPs, have been accepted, but as far as we know, this Social Democratic Party is the key thing about functioning internal control over police work in the bill of law, unfortunately, has not been changed. We from the Social Democratic Party have tried to improve the Bill of Police through our amendments. In particular, we felt that Article 5, which speaks about the information and the public of police work, which was also spoken about in the presentations of my predecessors belonging to the opposition group, should be corrected because this member of the law is contrary to the Law on free access to information of public importance. In general, as a basic law, this law regulates the public of the work of state authorities and allows for no exceptions other than the exceptions set out in the Free Access Act itself. Article 5 The draft law on police violates this rule because it introduces concepts of established interest to seek information, which is completely contrary to the idea of basic law in this area. And finally, I will repeat, if the amendments submitted, whose internal control service is set up as an independent body with clear powers, which will not be relativated so that the service comes down to its mere form, this law could also be a good law. But this government and this minister must show determination and a clear willingness to reform and rebirth police in the state of Serbia are indeed happening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20955	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. I apologize to Mr. Zivkovic. I read it wrong a little while ago. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic now has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, shall be prepared, and Miroslav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the position of the SPS parliamentary group on the draft law on police at the beginning of this debate was brought out by the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Of course, we noted, before discussing this law, we also had a detailed conversation with the minister and his associates, where we clarified some vague questions. In addition to repeating that we have several amendments, which we are trying to further clarify some of the provisions of the law. So it's not my goal to repeat everything that's already been said, but I'd only stick to a few questions. Of course, the SPS will support and vote in favour of this bill. However, I would like to ask a few questions. Mr. Minister in the opening statement pointed out in particular several issues that have already become as popular with people as possible for showing so much and vaguely. I don't know if there are any areas without talking about depoliticalisation, professionalisation, decentralisation, demilitarisation, deconcentration of reform, and not counting any further. I think the minister rightly pointed out here as the first question of depolitisation of the police, an urgent question without whom you can't. But I want to warn you, it's not enough to depolitize the police just by choosing the director of the competition, or the government to put him on the basis of the competition. Of course, it's necessary, but not sufficient conditions. This should lead to a further procedure so that there must be no political influence when the election is being held. In parallel with these questions is also a matter of professionalization. It's not enough to be depoliticized, to be just a competition, but to be an expert, a proven expert, with the qualities to run the police. The second question mentioned here, which is the question of decentralisation, is also a modern question. But let's look at how the law predicts it and whether such possibilities are realistic. I think in this section, which speaks of the organization of the police, the right measure has been found to organize these affairs. Of course, they had a dilemma, and I still have a dilemma, whether this is where the directorate is being identified with the police, or maybe it's a system. Maybe it's not appropriate to compare it. In the military, you have the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff with the Army. Is that appropriate here, too, where you have the M.O.P., the directorate, as General Staff, with the police as an army? We'll continue to make that clear. Where I think a good measure has been found, it's that it's not just territorial decentralisation of the right decentralisation, but it's a good thing they're decentralisation of powers, or jobs. Otherwise, imagine the police who would be a collection of police administrations in Serbia, where everyone would have their own police force, without speaking in such conditions as are in force in Serbia - evil and wrong. Imagine the police in Belgrade where the police commander, Mayor Bogdanovic, would be. He'd arrest anyone who asked what happened to the money for the city garage. Where did all this money go? What about the money for the Arena? What about building a bridge on Ada, which doesn't have any documentation yet, and a lot of money is given for the project, etc.? He'd arrest those who ask those questions immediately, and it's a huge deal of money. That's why I think there's a good measure here and it's just something to keep on insisting on. What you can think about in the ministry, is whether there is a possibility in some further procedure of introducing some kind of local police force, but unarmed police, which would only deal with the daily problems of citizens on the street, school, etc. It's something to think about. Also, when you say "depoliticization," it's actually done. So the third question is the application of that law. Everyone told us about the depoliticization. We had ministries, and even now, where the entire presidency of one party took over as assistants. Imagine, all experts, even the party's presidency - experts in the area. We had a chance in the last Doss government that not only the minister was a political figure, even he was the least important here. There were top experts Ceda Jovanovic, Vesic, Batic, Beba Popovic and I don't know who wasn't anymore. So the bottom line is, apply that principle to the end. The last question is police control, not to list everything we talked about. Here you can see, and only possible, there is external and internal control. What do I think is causing public confusion? The external control carried out in the Assembly, which is nevertheless the Supreme Authority, has not been sufficiently developed, has not been fully elaborated. As a result, people look for various ways to go deeper and see the essence of these relationships, etc. That's why I like, if that's the case, the adoption of a law on parliamentary control of all security services, where it would be clearly specified how external control is carried out. It's civilian control. The most important control is civilian police control. The other thing -- internal control -- that's something that the measure in this law was found for, with it seems to me that there was only a sentence missing to avoid all misunderstandings. If it's clear, and it's clear, internal control can be performed by someone from there and it's not professional, but a couple of excellencies professional. He can handle internal control within the police force. Perhaps in law, it should have been said that the head of the sector is the deputy minister. Maybe you'd avoid the misunderstandings of that kind. In addition to external control, internal control is not allowed to create another external control, two ministers, etc. So, internal control, led by an expert pair of excellencies, not like now that Bozovic is doing internal police control. In the end, I think this solution should be supported, it needs to be made clear to the end about the assistant minister and made clear that he has to be professional too. In the end, it must be done everything possible for the police to get the status they deserve. The police themselves must do so by acting in accordance with the law and the Constitution by avoiding all possible political influences. If the Democratic Party had a constant influence on the police, her law would be the best. So she herself must answer all those questions that burden her, start with "Sabre," through everyone else. It wasn't the police who erased Sabre. The police carried out the orders of these just-said people. Then, if it's the police to protect the citizen, the citizen must trust her. So she has to get rid of all these internal problems. But also, the state has to stand entirely behind the police and don't let anyone devalue it. Of course, it provides such a material position for the man to be both materially and in any other way provided. Only then can we speak in the right way about a professional police force, which is free of all pressures and, of course, the one in the function of citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20957	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, then by the People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic, and by the People's Messenger Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20958	This law is an attempt to define a part of the MUP clearly, its obligations, responsibilities and responsibilities. What's very good is that a person, a citizen, his rights, protection and security, is placed at the heart of this law. But it is not good that this law clearly does not define how and in what way this same citizen, or his right, is protected from the police themselves, for the simple reason that in these parts of this law, where it is concerned, not only the work of internal control but also the work of the public, but also the provisions which define the way the police are treated with persons, or citizens, clearly show that in certain segments, without the amendments adopted or considered, due to the lack of definition of the rights or, rather, the rights of the persons being denied. If we look at the powers of the officials in this law, or a member of the police, we will see, among other things, that the most minor violation being treated in this law is the misbehaving of a member of the police, and all the way to the category where the law says that a listening or monitoring of a person by a decision of the Supreme Court, or a judge changing the President of the Court, can be done. In this one diapazon, many measures and many ways can be found and how a foothold for abuse of official powers, for counterfeiting legal provisions. Why? Because when we look at the statisticalally, one of the main problems is precisely in the part that we're pretty much meeting, with the inappropriate or irresponsible behaviour of the official, starting with that stage job, through the traffic police, to some senior officials at the MUP. The main cause and reason is incorrect behavior, a behavior that could be said to be contrary to the law, starting with verbal harassment, shagging, to the application of easier measures of force. And when we look at the criminal provision, then we see that sanctioning such procedures, which are mostly represented in violations, is punishment by reducing personal income from 10% to 30%. The penalty policy provided for by this law aims to prevent all the unwanted consequences. If a person who is a member of the police is willing to abuse his position, harassing citizens, whose security he is in charge of, has decided to do so for some personal benefit, then sanctioning such procedures as are treated as the easiest offense will have no effect. Secondly, when it comes to the detention and retention of the person, then we are aware that we have some bitter experience from the past period, especially from the period of emergency or the action of "Sabbe", where one of the previous speakers, who has been grilled and burned by this action, comes out here to post our minds, to draw lessons, so he said it's not that people are legally detained, which, with the conscious violation of the Constitution and constitutional provisions, are harassed, chicanated, declared an assassin, is already the essence of internal control. We are now in a position to clearly define the maximum time period of detention, i.e. by adopting certain amendments. He has to comply with laws, laws, and nothing beyond that. There is no excuse to serve as a basis in order to make an exception in this law. In this law, limiting movement in such a clearly undefined way cannot be used tomorrow as an opportunity for abuse and illegal treatment. Why are we Serbian radicals warning about this? For the simple reason that we are aware that the government is variable, unlike many of you who have been in continuity since 2000, so you think that you will remain 100 years with international support. We wish you were ravens, but you can't rule for 100 years. I am not talking about a complete ruling coalition, but about certain political parties that are transformed overnight from NGOs to political parties, and then in continuance from Radoj Kontic, they hold power. Since it's a variable category, you have to think about how it's going to affect you yourself, who are now advocating such an undefined law at certain points. If it is about applying the listening measures, then we are aware of the facts of the abuses involved when it comes to the application of such measures. Why was she coming? The main reason was that the law in force, which is clear, decadent and says - only the President of the Supreme Court approves the application of such measures and must not make an exception. We must not make a legal precedent on behalf of individual cases, because that legal precedent tomorrow will be subject or method of abuse. If that's the President of the Supreme Court, then he's only authorized to grant such approval. We had, though, the truth for the sake of it, and there were negative experiences, where the ex, if we use the modern coin, the President of the Supreme Court, at the request of the BIA to apply such measures to the person involved in spying, replied - cannot be applied because he does his job. We must not, on the basis of such experiences, allow someone to abuse tomorrow legally, by authorising any Supreme Court judge as a result of the absence of a Supreme Court President. After all, the responsibility of the post implies that this man, who is the President of the Supreme Court, is aware of the fact that he must be at his service at any time at all times at any time in the place where he is able to sign such requests. The application of such measures over the past period has been a way of abuse and a basis for breaking the law in 99% of cases. Why? We've also heard from some political party representatives here, who say they suffered from 1990 to 2000. Then they pointed out that a listening measure has been applied to their leaders, but they do not tell the public that such a measure should not have been applied since 1990, because their leaders are letter members of state security, BIA. Why listen to someone who works part-time for you, who you pay off on a fee? It's always the subject of manipulation. As far as the police organisation itself is concerned, a new institution called the Directorate is being introduced. There's a director at the head of this department. Legally unclear and incompletely defined which all the powers, which are the rights and duties of the director, question the justification and existence of the functions of the director. The hierarchical relationship is clearly defined, all subordinated to the minister, but on the other hand, this raises a clear definition or determination of the legislator to depolitize the police. If the minister is the only political figure in the entire structure of the police, then it's unclear what it is to depolitize the police, when everyone is counting on him. We must get out of these delusions. The delusions that are seen in some flossules. We will carry out depolitisation and demilitarisation by referring to it as a single sentence or as one segment in the legislative proposal, and in practice we have a very different situation, where the minister as a politically very significant figure has a discretionary right to influence the choice of his associates. Of course, in this case, the director of the Directorate is quite defined, as it is said - will be accepted in competition, and that the competitive conditions should meet such a person who is applying for director. This is clearly defined, but what is the hierarchical lower, and these are the chiefs of individual sectors, individual areas or individual administrations? How do they choose? They must be clearly defined in this law because they constitute a new "institution within the police", which is a directorate. If this is not defined, we will have one injustice or better said discrimination against a man or a person who will apply for director. He needs to meet the conditions for the place, and everyone else is most likely a reflection of political will and desire or inter-party trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We will continue today's principle debate on the 13th agenda - a draft law on police. Let me tell you at first how we'll work today and tomorrow. Today we will work until the principle debate is over, and tomorrow, if it's all right, we will do the longest to end the united debate of the 15th and 16th points. So tomorrow we will begin work at 10.00 hours with a principle debate of the 14th agenda and work until the end of the united principle debate of the 15th and 16th points, agreed on by representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Zivkovic. Let MP Momir Markovic be prepared, then Dragan Šormaz. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20960	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, if we know that the control and reform of the security services is one of Serbia's priorities on its path to the EU, if we know that such a reform cannot be serious if the police law is not passed, then there is no dilemma that MPs G17 plus will vote. Of course, we support this proposal and we will vote for the adoption of this law. In fact, security reform has long and extensively been discussed. There have been various ministers, there have been various transformations, systematization, resuscitation, but nothing has essentially happened. Nothing happened until this government arrived. This government and the resolute minister had the courage, the knowledge, the will to approach this problem essentially. They came to reform the security system that was most awaited. These reforms were last implemented, and the longest awaited them. Simply, for too long, the police have been a political instrument, a political means, a means to which the structure in power controlled the social interest. She wasn't supporting him. She was controlling him. Of course, such a structure of the police and the security system required a certain personnel structure, in which obedient and reliable carried a advantage over a professional, smart one. But with this government's arrival, it's starting to change. When I talked about the previous period, about no confusion, about the period found, I'm talking about the period after October 5th. The reform of the security system is not just a matter of definition and the will of the government and the resolute minister. This is simply about some of the obligations that we, as a country, have taken on the road to European integration. We as a state, with a serious commitment to European integration, will meet these obligations. I would not like to repeat now, Mr. Minister, in his opening address, mentioned all the documents, protocols and recommendations we had to honor. I think it's a good part of this law done. Respecting the fact, above all, that reforms, including police reforms, are not a matter of moment, but of process, for MPs G17 plus this text of the proposal is quite acceptable. Someone has noticed that this bill is something between the found and the desirable. We respect that fact and that is why, in order to get as close as possible to that desired, the G17 Plus MPs have submitted more than 20 amendments. Not because we thought this bill was bad, not because we were going to get some cheap daily-political points, we're leaving it to someone else, I'm simply going to repeat once more, we wanted to support this government's efforts to finally implement a fundamental reform of the security system, in this case the police, and to come up with the best possible solution. One of his fellow MPs said here that amendments G17 plus the EU wrote. I am pleased if this colleague has recognised in our amendments to the EU's recommendations. The amendments were written by us, although we have enough professional and honest people in our parliamentary group who could do so. The reasons we did it, I was already talking. Some of our amendments have been accepted. Some are still being talked about, but regardless, we believe there are enough good things in this law to support this law. I don't want to repeat myself, my colleagues have talked about it, especially my colleague, Christin, what's good about this law. In short, I'd like to underline, the good thing about police law is that, first of all, demilitarization and depolitisation are being conducted. I'm sure the Resort Ministry has enough power to begin the decriminalisation process, which is a reflection of the earlier period, by the end. That's what we're all witnesses to. I think the minister has enough power to endure on that path. I repeat what is most important to me. First of all, this law introduces a new concept of public security. It is no longer just the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens of Serbia, of citizens, but of the protection of all. Such a new concept of public security required that, above all, very clear police affairs be determined. In this law it is regulated in Articles 10 to 19, in which I think a lot of amendments from the G17 Plus Group have been installed, or accepted. Simply in order to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, we need to know what are the powers of police officers, i.e. the rights and powers of police officers and rights and the authority of citizens. It's just two things, or seeing one of those same things. This law accurately regulates it, much better than the existing one, which was brought in, let's remind ourselves, in 1991, in some completely different conditions. I think that legal solution is perfectly acceptable. The most important thing about this law is the introduction of a police director or a police director. Also, we don't have any more serious remarks here. The Director of Police, therefore, is elected by the Government on a proposal from the Resoring Minister, is elected for five years. All of this is regulated in Article 21. Perhaps it would be a small observation to hope that these criteria will be specified through some of the sublegal acts, simply so that we know that the less discretionary right of the minister during the election of the director. I wouldn't stick to the details anymore except to say, as good as any law is, it can be perfect, if it isn't applied or misapplicated, it simply doesn't have any power, it's completely worthless. Therefore, this law provides for two levels of control - external and internal. The G17 Plus MPs had a little different vision in this part, but that was our sighting. There are two systems, we could have chosen one or the other. The government and the minister have decided on one. Either one or the other, we have decided to accept that what is most important is to protect the rights and freedoms of the citizens and prevent the will of the police. What I am particularly pleased about, of course, is not contained in this law, but I am preparing for this law to find that about 100 internal control inspectors will be deployed in Serbia's territory. I think I found it in an interview. That's awfully good. So, it's still getting really close to this problem, it's not going to be carried out casually, it's not going to be a dead letter on paper. For now, I would say, I will not go further into the analysis of this law, for that there is a debate in detail, where I think the other details will be fully clarified. In the end, I would like to call you once again to support this law and vote for the law on police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20961	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic, then the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and Radisa Ilic, the People's Messenger. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law is how the ruling set knows how to say system law. It's systematic because of the system of copying and translation from some Western countries and it's mostly systematically mistranslated, so I often wonder if someone's setting you up with bad law translations. I've already gotten used to a few laws backwards that start with a list in the first or second term, but when we get to Article 2 and I'll talk about it. In Article 1(2), he said, "The police are carrying out a law of established police and other affairs, providing support for the rule of law in a democratic society... "I ask you, did you receive a certificate that this society is democratic. And if you haven't won, you don't have confirmation that society is democratic, then the police don't have to comply with the law. I think it's too much waving with that democratic, democracy, democracy. In a law like this, a serious law, a law that intends to become a serious law, should not be introduced, because it increasingly looks like a flossula "in a democratic society" – a mere declaration. The democraticity of a particular society is determined by voters in the elections. I don't think words like that should be introduced into the law anymore, creating confusion. Related to Article 2. In Article 2 of the Law on Roads, Minister Ilic wrote to us what the road is, what is rigola, what is a ditch by the road, what is a crossroads, what is a traffic light, and in the Law on tobacco, Minister Dinkic, what is tobacco, what is a cigarette, how it is cut, how it is fermented. There's no such thing in this law. Because if there was, then Minister Jocic would have to tell us what a cop is, what a paw, what a pendrek. It is good that Minister Jocic saw what was wrong with the other ministers, so he did not apply. Now we come to Article 3. He says: "If resistance is expected in the execution of acts of state authorities and legal entities with public authority, police will, on their written request, provide assistance in order to facilitate enforcement. "It's mostly the part of the MUP in the local self-government, and here we are now in a situation to force the police and to break the law, besides, I'll talk about it a little later, but also that if you already use that term, it's going to behave a little bit later. It's a typical example. The SRS was tried around the magistrates with that democratic authority by 2003, it came four times, if not more, an eviction solution, and several times the police came and several times the SRS MPs stood before and the police couldn't execute the eviction, because we now received a final ruling that everything was in accordance with the law. This way, the volunteerism of some municipal chiefs can force the police to abuse powers. There's one more thing. Recently, the president of the municipality hired the head of SUP to invite all those who signed the petition to launch an initiative to replace the president of the municipality at 21.00 p.m. and to take a statement from them. That can't happen. That's exactly the possibility when the chief is bent, especially if they're pasthenosis, as in this case, it seems to me, the chief and president of the municipality or the chief and some official, or if they're just friends, then the captain can abuse those powers that he didn't actually have under that old law. He abuses the police as an institution. Article 6(2): "Police also cooperate with other bodies and institutions, NGOs and other organisations, minority and other organised groups and self-organised individuals (I am very interested in what is a self-organised individual, an organised individual, a term that needs little later to explain how it is a self-organised individual) to develop a partnership in preventing or removing delicacies etc." This is where NGOs will command you with the police. In accordance with Article 6, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, all these traitors who rat on us wherever they arrive and wherever they arrive, will have to act on this unless article 6 is changed. Article 8 paragraph 2: "The minister gives police guidance and mandatory instructions for work, with full respect for the operational independence of the police. The minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks under their jurisdiction and to take certain steps and report to him on this. "What can the minister do and how long? What's the limit to how long the minister can go? The minister can also order a wire, arrest, interrogation. The prosecutor must be immediately involved, because at the end of that article it is said - and assumes control of police conduct. He says this: "The responsibilities of the Police Minister under Article 2 are valid until the public prosecutor is informed of the criminal offence and assumes the management of police conduct in a pre-criminal procedure. "What is the period when the D.A. has to inform the prosecutor and the prosecutor takes certain measures at the time? So far, it's been 48 hours in custody, and at that time, a public prosecutor must be involved. In Article 10, point 2, says security protection of property. I ask – since we no longer have domestic banks, because these banks that are domestic, in fact, are not domestic, they are more domestic tycoons, and mostly capital is a little more than those of our own – specifically banks, transport money from the vault to the bank and back, related to it. Some time ago, I had a chance for people in black, armed with long pipes, with hats, to stop me from passing the car, to provide, I think it's a Greek bank, at the magistrate's square. I'm asking, who but the police can wear long pipes? They were terrified of the citizens there at the market, for they passed by the market, and came in, and went out, and the pumps in their hands. If I was a little timid, they'd scare me too. So, the police have to provide these convoys, but the police have to charge for it, and if they provide and charge, then where does the money go? Is he going to the budget or is he going to that special police account? Everything must be regulated in law. Article 15(1) says: "If the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers that it is not possible otherwise, etc. to restrict or prohibit movement on certain facilities, in certain areas or in public places. "This is the introduction of a state of emergency on the part of the territory. It's not the government's right, it's the president of the state. As far as I know, Natasa Micic was Milan Milutinovic, just a little different, and then she introduced this. Further says item 2 - to prohibit housing in a particular area or leaving a particular area. What does that mean? You want the whole town, it's a certain area, a wire to stretch and turn the city into a camp. There's got to be a different way of saying it. Now that I don’t have enough time, Article 30 - point 13 - public rewarding. I'm asking the Ministers if the Minister has been relieved, the Ministry remains. The minister who was before you called a public reward. The president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, has handled three cases completely and handed them over. It was then 300,000 marks, 900,000 marks, or 450,000 euros your ministry owes the SRS, as far as you know. Furthermore, in Part 5, the second part is said to collect information from the person in custody. You have no right to do that. The moment his face was held, the police had nothing to do with him. In the end, I'm going to ask two more questions, and I'm going to finish, because there's still a lot of speakers in the SRS. You heard the Ministers, I'm so glad you're here, for a man who's a close relative to one of our officials in this country, and otherwise his nickname is Maniac, you'll probably remember who it is, worked in the Chamber System, got surveillance equipment and held up that equipment, tapped the phones of Nokia. I have information that the M.O.P. is familiar and nothing has ever been done. Who uses the listening equipment that was in Vladite Kovacevic's street? The equipment was bought in Israel since Tadic was a minister and imported a certain Milan Zaric. Do you have information about that equipment, because that equipment can only hold M.P. and B.I.A. and no one else. I've been warned by my colleagues that I've already spent 12 minutes. During the debate on amendments, we will discuss each member in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20963	The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, then the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, then the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's Parliament that we know of here has already been mentioned that it has introduced a state of war under the form of a state of emergency in the country while doing a certain duty, that some of us speaking to the minister here are making changes and laws like this because they are conditions, not because they feel the need for such a thing. I had to react first to that and to such a mildly, false and incorrect statement, because the lady should know that almost 80% of the citizens of the state of Serbia and Montenegro when you ask them, have shown public opinion studies, are you in favour of Serbia being part of the EU responding with "yes". Almost 80% of citizens and all I know about the relevant political parties in Serbia say the same thing and work to be part of this great European family where we belong. If we have already made such a decision as a state and we are working to be part of a large European family, and it is logical that this great European family gives us conditions for joining the EU, I do not know what other term to use and what other Serbian word to use. But if we are to join somewhere, it is logical to respect the conditions and much greater associations than our country, because if we are to live in the EU together, it is logical that our country be arranged in the same way as those countries, and these are the conditions and it does not need that word to be foreign to it. That's what they're called. European standards and it is logical for us as a state and in this area to comply with our legislation with European standards. What are the European standards required of us in this area to adopt them? It's a new structure of police and assumptions for decentralisation and authority within the police force. Then, a new organisational structure, as the new law also provides, police directorate, police administration for the city of Belgrade, regional police administrations, police stations and principles for its operation, more fully and more precise definition of police affairs and co-operation with other state authorities, a comprehensive arrangement of police powers and redefine, significant changes in the domain of labour relations, for the first time editing and control of police work, external and internal. Then, the introduction of an auxiliary police force instead of a backup squad. It insists on the rights of the persons to whom police powers are applied. Editing the position, duties, rights and responsibilities of police officers only in a matter in which it differs from other civil servants. That is all that is required of us, which is our obligation to the citizens of the Serbian state, whether we are the government, whether we are the opposition. It's our duty to create the cheapest state for taxpayers, the cheaper the police, the more efficient the police. This was not possible under the old law and of course it required a new law. What are these changes in the police law? First, a new concept of public security. Under the Internal Affairs Act of 1991, security has been provided to citizens, citizens of Serbia, and under the new law on police, which we have ahead of us, security is provided to all in Serbia's territory, meaning those who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia by our Constitution and are located in our territory. Second, the police's operational independence. So far, the chief of police has been the interior minister, and now, under the new law, the chief of police is the police director. Then, demilitarisation, the acts so far are abolished, with restrictive exceptions in cases where it requires a way of command. Also, the current reserve police, with military bonds in its composition, are being replaced by the auxiliary police, which are formed in accordance with the principle of volunteering of its members. Deconcentration; under the new law, businesses are first distributed to all levels of organization, precisely determining what the MUP is doing, what the police, what the directorate, what regional administrations, what police stations, which makes decision-making, independence and responsibility go down to local levels, when we have already talked about decentralisation. Then, depoliticization. Under the old law, political responsibility, besides the minister, were deputy and assistant ministers, and under the new law, only the minister is politically responsible, while all the others in the police are responsible only for the profession and the work they do and are chosen on the basis of expertise and competition, not as it has been so far. We've had cases where magi are being placed in certain municipalities, that was the time of DOS, for the chiefs of the MUP. About depoliticization and what I just said is also professionalization. Assistant Ministers shall be elected in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Civil Service Act. We adopted this law here, which provides for sustainability, depolitisation and expertise. Several legal solutions highlight personal responsibility, both in position and in all other police officers. So they choose to compete. After all, the police director himself is elected to the competition for five years, which means that he will be elected for five years and will certainly work in the term of office of two ministers, as one government has a period of four years. There's enough evidence of depoliticization for you. Redefining police powers; the old law generally and segmentally regulates only a few police powers, while the new law lays down and redefines all police powers, and elaborates 21. They remained elaborated on other laws, which met one of the main conditions concerning police, which we committed to when we were admitted to the Council of Europe. A far higher degree of protection of human rights. All powers provide guarantees for the protection of human rights under the highest international standards, in practice by the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. With regard to data collection, it should be stressed that the introduction of a set of completely new safeguards provisions in relation to personal data. It's the first time we've ever done police work control. The old law does not regulate police work control, and the new law makes it comprehensively possible to regulate both external police controls and several forms of internal control. Internal Affairs, there was controversy here whether it was called or not. I'll remind you that in the countries of the English speaking area it's called internal affairs, when you translate it's internal affairs. So there's a service, there's a play-by-play procedure, and there's another, which is above the legislative practice of most of the countries in the region. I know how to say it in English, I don't know how to say it in French, so why don't you go ahead and say it in Chinese, if you know. The principle of co-operation is far more developed by a new law on police, in all forms of co-operation in national frameworks, but also with regard to international co-operation, which the old law did not deal with. The principle of the public, this issue has not been addressed at all by the old law, and the new law has developed this principle by standards that are in line with domestic legislation, but also with international standards on the availability of information, on the obligation to protect confidential data, etc. Public visibility, i.e. as we like to say the transparency of the means of police work is far above the arrangement of this issue in the old law. As an illustration, it can be used for the first time in our legal order to arrange funds for the special operational needs of the police, which was unimaginable at the time of the old law - 1991. People's MPs, respected friends, this is a law that is one big step forward and this is our obligation in relation to the existing state and the existing law. Maybe it's not in the details, in terms of the most perfect, but it's much better than the existing law. The obligation to the state and to the people is to adopt this law. My opinion is that everyone who does not vote in this House for this law is actually against European integration and Serbia's entry into the European Union. That is why I call upon all my friends, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to support this law in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20965	Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20966	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will look back on a part of what Mr. Shormaz was talking about. It's not internal affairs, what you're saying here, internal control. It's the name of the ministry itself, so it's a completely wrong translation, Mr. Shormaz. So the interior ministry is a ministry of internal affairs. It's not internal control in the Ministry itself, so you don't seem to know what it's called, but what to do to you. You have the opportunity to say it in two ways, depending on whether british is english or American English, whether it's a foreign affair or an external affair. I went out for something else. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you were happy during Mr. Shormaz's presentation, I don't mind. I came out here this morning because we asked a very important question to Minister Jocic and I am convinced that our police, which is very effective, very serious, I am convinced that many things he knows, have data now. In today's interview with a high-ranking official of the Government of Serbia, a journalist asks him the question: "Alexander Vukic told you not to go with a hammer to the buffer." It is after the fact that the representatives of the two political parties have declared war on the SRS, so they said, it is the SPO and the DS. Then I said we don't want to be involved in any war, but we won't run from a political conflict with them without recommending that they don't take the hammer to the bar. That's where this question comes from. The answer was, "They won't scare us. They didn't even do it when they sent killer trucks to our members, when they killed and burned people alive." It doesn't matter any further if our president of the municipality rolled a gun, since he didn't, he's rolled a holster for his cell phone, the truth works. There's been a lot of liars. Of course, that's what the DS liars invented, because they're being chased there by people for the theft of 7.5 million in a housing fund at the bar. That's the point. But let's not talk about it right now. I'm going back to these two serious things. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to come out, for the sake of the public, it's the afternoon, we talked about this this morning, and I'm sure there's been four hours more than enough of your service at the MUP to get you checked out. Did we from the U.S.S., and I specifically ask if, since the question was about me, I was involved in burning people alive? Did I or didn't I? Either I'm a killer, a psychopath, a lunatic who has to go to jail right now and never come out, or you have high-ranking government officials who are big liars, at the very least? I don't want to talk about anything else, I just want to say that they're big liars. It's either one or the other, the third doesn't exist. I'm just expecting an answer from you. I know you have a congregation majority now, and I know it's a problem for you, but you can't act like a politician here, you have to act like a professional, if you want to be an expert in your field, as someone who has to do that job, because for you, I have to be the same as any other citizen in Serbia. Anyone can't show up and say that Serbian radicals burned people alive. Or that's true, arrest us immediately. I'm not asking you to arrest him, but just say he's a big liar and I'm happy about it. I don't mind someone lying, but I want the citizens of Serbia to know that someone lied. (President: Time. I'm done, Mr. Markovic. Once again, I want to say what this is about, to let the citizens hear, those who did not have the opportunity in the afternoon to watch the session of the National Assembly. The whole campaign, which the DS and SPS have gone against against the SRS, exists because of one fact: because some would trade in Kosovo and Metohija, and above all to protect themselves from future arrests for fraud, crime and corruption. Because some of them know, "We are good with these, with those, we have agreed with them in different ways, few of us will rule, few will rule, so we will do a little together, and we will take a little apart and no one," they know when they come to power that there are no more deals, no more theft, corruption, bribery, theft, takeover, destruction of business space, destruction of everything in Belgrade, at the level of all Serbia. That's why Serbian citizens are looking for changes, and that's why we're asking for a response from the police minister. Here, I'm ready right now, I'll put handcuffs on my own if I did, or let the minister say who's a liar. There's no great philosophy, the truth has to come out and I expect it from you right now, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20967	Replica, Mr. Shormaz, has been mentioned in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20968	Mr. Wolfie, maybe it's not exactly what I said, but I see you like to check. In England, the Ministry of the Interior is called Home Secretary, and every citizen who watches any American criminal film can see that the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs is called Internal Affairs and that's what I said, I don't see why you went out for it. Maybe I'm wrong, and for this second one, the minister will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20969	Thank you very much. The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20970	Now, given your morning request, Mr. Vukic, none of the allegations in the statement were subject to criminal police verification. The competent public prosecutor's office also failed to make requests for the collection of the necessary information concerning alleged events in the reports, or in the reports. According to available data, the MUP has not received any information on alleged events from other sources, such as performances, anonymous or signed, public consultation, public information funds and others. It's the Police of Criminal Police. And from the Department of Anti-Organized Crime, I was given, based on my oral request that, on your point of view, the activities of an SRS member in connection with the execution of a crime, or murder, we inform you that on the basis of the records available, we have no knowledge in this regard. "
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20971	You got the information, don't answer the information, it's not correct. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20972	It would be rude if I hadn't come out for a pay phone, and I thank you, Mr. Minister, for being effective and for telling the truth. I have found that Serbia's high-ranking official is a great liar, which is why I am satisfied, and now the citizens of Serbia have heard it, and I hope that you will be able to solve the problems effectively in the future. And now it's quite clear how, in what way and which all means are being used in the fight against the SRS, which is another indication that they won't stop us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20973	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20974	For the sake of truth, the MUP and the minister are obliged to provide a reply to each MP and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20975	Thank you all for your tolerance. This is the National Assembly. Don't expect the ministers to tell you the truth, they can only tell you information. Please, please, the word has a People's MP, Radisa Ilic. So, just to call things real names, as in Serbian, as we try to do in English. Please, this is just for seriousness. After Mr. Ilic, the word has been given by MP Petar Cvetkovic, then by MP Nenad Mitrovica, while calling on one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to come down to replace me in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are now discussing in the National Assembly on Forest Trees, fruit trees, hops, doping, gambling, gambling, the law has also been put on the agenda, so European makeup, police law. To make this bill look more acceptable, the European Code of Procedure, written where a new world order has been designed for many years, with only the ridiculous and strange names of individual police authorities, will begin to remind the former civil protection or voluntary fire company. The explanation on page 3 explains this nicely that police should become the service of citizens, but what is most important is seen at the end of the sentence - this is a condition for accession, as stated, among other things to NATO. Then you can see who's a writer of this kind and similar code, which often goes through local parliaments for adoption. What does the police have to do with the NATO Pact now? The door is slowly opened for the penetration of a foreign factor in this sensitive area, such as internal affairs. We will have a situation very soon, although this may already be happening, i.e. that foreign police officers will begin to cruise around Serbia in search of Hague refugees, and in fact they will carry out the order of their home police. This code is something like an ethical code, which has been offered to individual local parliaments for adoption, and is made up of a group of suspicious European NGOs, including even a German political party. The implementation of the European Code of Police Ethics is now favored here, and we have just the alarming appearances of the criminalisation of a number of police officers, as are the print and electronic media in Serbia. Here you can see one haste of the ruling coalition to pass this law. This seems to be the intention of reforming the police's interests in the ruling party, which will crash with authorities after an extraordinary parliamentary election along with its minority coalition partners. Why doesn't the legislator wait until he adopts a new Serbian constitution and then enter into police reform? The new constitution, which has been mentioned since the formation of this assembly called, seems to be in no hurry, since Europe does not interfere. It does not interfere, as new parliamentary elections will be called after the new constitution has been adopted, which will strongly defeat the SRS. What anyone who reads this law will notice is certainly a series of new terms and names that differ from the classic and traditional names of police authorities and police institutions. We now have a directorate, then a police director, then representatives of the public, then an auxiliary police department, and so on. Everything like this together looks like a public company, only the manager is still missing, so our police don't look like the police anymore. What was wrong with the name - reserve police, so the name is now being introduced - the auxiliary police on a voluntary basis, as the interior minister said today in addressing lawmakers. Anything written new from the recommendations on the outside in the draft law, the minister accepts. So, if the designers of police ethics had written to him in the law that the name of the interior minister was renamed chief interior officer, the minister would have also accepted it. Through certain members of this bill, I will try to point out some provisions that are in some ways ambiguous, but also very harmful to improving the work and efficiency of the Serbian police. The 19th article discusses international co-operation and engagement, saying at the end of the sentence that our police are doing certain police work abroad in co-operation with the police of other states. Does this mean that foreign police officers can also do certain police work with us, since it is generally known that foreign agents and police officers have been strutting around Serbia for a long time, while cobajagi are looking for Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, of course, with the help of domestic search engines from NGOs. If internal affairs should also do what Vuk Draskovic, the current foreign minister, so with the agreement on the passage of NATO troops through Serbia, then we can ask ourselves whether we are even free citizens today and whether this country is free. That's usually how it works. First you use their experiences, and then they come personally to finish what their listeners, such as Vuk Draskovic, Natasa Kandic and others, have already prepared the terrain in Serbia. Article 21 deals with police directors and the appointment of police directors. In the position of the fourth member, we see what are the conditions for appointing the Director of Police. Only nine years of work experience are listed. Usually, the competition lists five, 10 or 15 years of work experience, and thus nine, acts as a pre-prepared place for a dedicated party activist, but it is still short of adding a picture of the future director to this attitude, so that all of this can be considered. The definition of "high professional cook" is not specific, because it does not know what profession it refers to. There are a lot of employees in the police with different higher educations, and they work as police officers, which means that tomorrow the director of police can also be sought among defecologists, economists, academics with the DIF, etc. Members of 116th and 117th are involved in police calls. The proposal for these members introduced entirely new calls for a certain degree of expertise. Since there is a large time gap since the introduction of the Police Academy, it is too early to make a sharp distinction between higher and high professional equipment, since there is a High School of Internal Affairs which schools specialized staff. With this proposal, they are in a subordinate position, regardless of the experience they have gained in their work so far. So far, there has been no sharp limit of these two categories, and given the conditions that exist in our society and the fact that the Police Academy has existed for only ten years, it is too early to withdraw such a sharp differentiation, given the increase in crime and corruption and the need for the state to calculate with it, in which it needs personnel with experience. This law prescribes in several members how a police officer stops working before fulfilling the general conditions for obtaining an age pension. Articles 140, 159, 167, 168, 168, etc. There are situations where an employee of a police officer stops working. He is certainly the most controversial member of 139, which gives the legal opportunity to retire all police officers who have completed 50 years of life, 20 years of retirement training, and that he spent the last 10 years as an employee on jobs that count with an increased internship. The public needs to know that the possibility of selective dismissal of police officers with the greatest experience is created here, and that their effect, current result and ability are not relevant. At the same time, police officers are made clear that they can be retired even before they meet the general conditions for obtaining retirement, no matter how well and professionally they do their job. In Article 139, it does not say in which cases it is applied, thus giving broad authority to apply this article. Whose interests are protected by Article 139? Probably the ruling coalition, which plans to deal with all police officers over the age of 50, who are considered not to be politically alike. In their place will come younger underexperienced personnel, likely at the will of the ruling group in Serbia, especially from the expert group, as was done in the financial police or by many tax administrations throughout Serbia, not to mention the National Bank of Serbia, the "Serbian State" etc. If the promoter had good intentions to enable police officers of convenience to retire early, then a provision was to be introduced in Article 139 under which the application of this article requires consent and a police officer. The Serbian Radical Party will not support the law, given that in such a conducting way, the work and functioning of an entire institution, which is very important for the survival of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20977	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic, then the People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica, and then the People's Messenger, Đorđe Mamula. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20978	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, today, on the basis of the police law, we have heard different opinions, starting with those which are reasonable, using experience or the achievements of the legal sciences and opinions of relevant legal experts, police experts, we have pointed out that the proposed law is a modern law, reform law, which regulates a very important and very sensitive area in the state in an adequate and modern way, in accordance with the stated European principles, to the extreme criticisms based on criticism and pure, conditionally speaking, politics, as well as the works of criticism of MPs who have read the above-mentioned discussions, with the impression that a good part of this criticism, or criticism, have not understood enough. It is impossible, and it is understandable for certain political parties or clubs to approach at any cost the criticism of all the proposals and solutions made by this ministry and this current government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is just one of the modern legal solutions submitted in this assembly over the past period. On the bill, Serbia's expert public, before the law was enough, I would say even more than necessary, was at a public hearing, that several proposals or draft laws were made, and that this proposal had taken place, on which there are few professional grudges or objections as to the resolutions given by law, except as I said political and malicious remarks. As we have heard, the Minister and the Government are willing to make all the proposed solutions that go towards improving the laws of acceptance both at the session itself and during the examination of this law, which is for every commendation and to introduce and continue the trend of one spirit of tolerance in proposing and adopting all relevant and very important laws in joining the European Union. As has been said, this law on police is propagating demilitarisation, depolitisation and police professionalization. These are the solutions that have been uncontested in the Bill on Police and on which the minister, Mr Jocic, gave very detailed explanations in the opening statement. A fundamental problem arises, though not very loud and although unargumented, unprofessional criticism, where most critics today, or critics, have criticised for criticism, or disputing, because there are no essential fundamental objections, nor is it possible to make such a law possible. We have heard criticism that it should have waited with such a system law, allegedly under reason precisely because it is systematic, through those who kill themselves from anti-reformal behaviour in calling for reforms, to those who call themselves reformists and who are now seeking to delay the adoption of not only this but a whole series of laws that require timely adoption to join the European Union, and also to regulate this very important issue of police organisation. I would point out that the proposed law, in addition to the police work established by this law, is conducted and reorganised by the police, and is precisely determined by police authority, by numbers 21, and that this law fully regulates the process, i.e. one part of the state affairs relating to security or police affairs. Also, this law regulates police control. And there have been unprecedented criticisms mostly due to the fact that the proposed law correctly found that police work control is double, internal and external control. It is external control of this parliament, control of the government of the Republic of Serbia and control of all other state bodies that have legal and constitutional powers. The internal control is within the police force and it is totally illustrating with opinions that the police would like to create a parapolitan or a new body that would be independent of the MUP and of the minister or government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, criticism that points to decentralisation of police under the decentralisation of water, wants and aims to further break up the state, I would say and argue, further breaking up of the state and institutions. It is illusory to argue that police work should be given to local self-government. Imagine the situation that, in these conditions, a mayor hires police officers and determines their workaround authorities, part-round jurisdiction, pays them and gives orders for work, or gives orders. At this point, it is not easy to assume how many of these powers, or orders, could extend. Therefore, calling for decentralisation and calling for the lofty principles of decentralisation in this very sensitive business of internal affairs, that is, in the area of the police, is extremely dangerous and extremely malicious. In addition, the proposed law found that police financing was carried out, in addition to the funds set out in the budget, and the additional funds that the ministry, or the police, are self-achieving. Also, the bill found that police co-operated with other state authorities and local authorities, which was also thrown out with an unwarranted criticism, as criticism would be, in any case, even more severe if this law did not provide for co-operation. The just envisaged obligation to co-operate points to the objective and democracy of the proposed law. In other words, the proposed law on police is quite detailed because it is otherwise impossible to regulate this sensitive area of state action. I would remind you that everywhere there is a possible use of force, where there is a means of coercion, a very sensitive and thin thread between the permitted and the illicit, or abuse and the application of rights. The proposed law, which, as a river, is fully in line with the modern legal principles and EU attitudes and the European and world conventions, continues the process of passing system laws that brings us closer to the EU and to the modern democratic state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20979	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Đorđe Mamula, will have the word of Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the proposed law on police, according to the SRS, is not good. For this reason, we have submitted amendments, in order to correct the proposed law and to make the law practical. In the Minister's presentation, we heard that the adoption of the law is a condition for EU entry, as well as for this proposed law to ensure the independence of the police, since police are proposed to organise themselves in the Directorates, means police departments, regional police administrations and police stations. We in the SRS do not see this independence from the police in relation to the minister and the government, because the promoter also gave the condition for the appointment of the director of the Police Directorate to a nine-year term, which means that the minister, as a pronoun, has a human resources solution, because he has already given the condition that the Director has a nine-year term before his appointment as Director of Police, which means that there is nothing from the independence of the police. I would like to comment on Article 6, which says police are working with authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government to take action to ensure the safety of people and property. Police also co-operate with other bodies and institutions, NGOs and other organisations, minority and other organised groups and self-organised individuals to develop partnerships in preventing or detecting delicacies and their perpetrators and achieving other security objectives. We in the SRS think it is of great importance and co-operation with the police with the citizens. In Article 20. The bill says police will be organised through the Police Directorate, run by the director, whose composition includes regional police administrations and police stations. You did not specify and explain more precisely how and how, by which criteria, they would be formed. We of the SRS disagree with the position in this article that says: "The involvement of special units of police for special security tasks can only be done with the prior approval of the minister". We have here proposed an amendment, where the government would give authority to hire special units of police, as a collective body, not a minister as an individual. As for being admitted into a working relationship with the police, you stated that, in addition to the general conditions, each candidate should meet specific conditions. In addition, it means that every candidate needs to do a security check and that if the candidate completes that security check, he can start a working relationship with the police. I ask you, under the previous police law, I specifically speak for municipalities in southern Serbia, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, there were multiethnic police employees of the KLA and former members of the Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje. You probably have information that such persons work in multiethnic police, so I'm asking you, is this law going to make sure that the checks that are done will be the type as well as the checks that were made under the previous law? Nowhere here in the bill of law does I see a provision that empowers police to respond to the emphasis of separatist traits. In particular, I am talking about the emphasis of the Albanian flag in Bujanovac, which has been hanging there for several years to mark the Shyptar terrorists Rizvan Qazimija, or the commander of the self-proclaimed Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje. Does it mean that even after the adoption of this law, which does not provide for a provision to prevent such phenomena, the Albanian flag remains to be stormed in Bujanovac, which encourages Albanian terrorists, and on the other hand brings fear among Serbs and other Albanian and non-Albanian animals? All in all, the law is not good. Mr. Minister, accept the proposed amendments to the SRS, thus improving the draft law which will in practice be applicable. This way I don't believe this bill of police will have any effect on its application.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20981	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula, then Natasa Jovanovic's MP, and Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20982	This bill should be adopted because, according to its content and solutions, it represents a modern, modern law on police, which is in line with modern aspirations in the science of police and modern legislation in Europe, and I would say in the world. It is very important that this law has respected all those solutions recommended by the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human Rights, as well as the Constitution of Serbia. According to the Constitutional Charter, international law has primate over domestic legislation and that is the framework that binds us all. Also, I think it is very good that the proposal for each of the proposed solutions did not go to the OSCE and the Council of Europe, but the law has one seal given to it, so a very good balance has been made between the constitutional charter commitments and those solutions that have existed so far. It's very good that the law, when it comes to the organisation of the police, respects the principle of deconcentration and is good that there is no decentralisation. decentralisation in the police is a bad solution. That's what we had when earlier municipal officials had their own police force, so they organized her work accordingly, with the results they were known to do, and that's why such solutions are no longer mentioned. Depolitisation is also good, it is also felt by the principle proposed, which is to be the head of the police department, because it is the first police man, what solutions exist in the world as well. It is a good thing there is demilitarisation, although the demilitarisation of police in Europe is not so pronounced. Namely, there are units that are semi-war, semi-police, however, acts in some European countries have been detained, although police wear civilian suits. On the other hand, when it comes to weapons of police, as far as you can see from the prospectuses of police equipment fairs, police weapons are militarized. It has something different design, but by efficiency, by murder, preferably, it's military weapons. However, it is offered at police fairs as police equipment and police weapons, because there are far less restrictions for trade in these weapons than for those related to military weapons, so we need to be very clear that there is no demilitarisation of police in Europe except in the change of uniforms. On the other hand, when you look at the border units of the police in Europe, you will see that there is a military organization. Secondly, police training in Europe is such that the rule of all countries in Europe where police exist is that they are all trained as an army. It shouldn't interfere with your mind. More recently, proposals have also come from some European countries to restrict human rights. The British interior minister recently said, although the proposal did not go through, that police powers should be extended, and even suggested something that was previously characteristic of socialist legislation. He has now proposed that preventive detention be introduced for those who are preventably suspicious. Since the attack of terrorism is going to question civil rights and give certain powers to police who were previously unknown, it is very good that for the first time, as far as I know here, professionalism is stressed. So the police must develop professionalism, and professionalism has two foundations. It's knowledge and conscience. If he has no knowledge or no conscience, no professionalism. There have been different comments here on some solutions. Here it should be remembered that even the best solutions can always be misused if there is a desire for rights to be abused. Therefore, it is very important to change the climate, raise the police and develop professionalism that has these two foundations -- knowledge and conscience. By its solutions, otherwise, the law is very demanding. Some 80 members are involved in police powers. These powers are delicate, very important, however, there is no efficiency of police without good authority. According to these rights given to police officers, they must indeed be very well trained, because those rights they have and which can endanger the rights of others can be very dangerous terrain. That is why it is also important to pay huge attention to their training during school, but also later. When it comes to the Council of Europe, about the objections of the Council of Europe, it would be very good to remind ourselves that our country was admitted to the Council of Europe on 31 March 2003 at the moment when human rights were most drastically violated, so I do not understand the position of the Council of Europe. Today he had some objections to solutions here and there, and this country was admitted to the Council of Europe in March 2003, when human rights were violated in the most drastic way. To remind you, contrary to the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter, then, according to the decision of the unconstitutional president of the state, Mrs. Micic, it is decided that the detention is no longer under the Constitution, but within the jurisdiction of the police. These are the totalitarian aspirations of a regime that was prone to totalitarianism and in the most drastic way hurt the Constitution. In addition, the right to defend has been abolished in the police procedure, which has been unrecorded in Europe's new history. Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin did not lift the right to defend, and after World War II, the right to defend here was not lifted. General Mihailovic, Stepinac, was tried by having the right to choose defenders. Stepinca was defending Politeo. Mihailovica Dragic-Joksimovic and I think Vladimir Grol. They had the right to choose. The state of emergency has been listed under the Emergency Measures Act since 27 March 1991. By applying this law, in my opinion, in the state of emergency of 2003, a total criticism was annulled at the expense of the previous government, because the application of this law fully respected one of the laws which gave quite great authority and which had a cocktail of members relating to the state of war and to the state of emergency. At that time, of course, there was support for NGOs in a state of emergency, and I see that NGOs now also appear as critics of this bill, although I think that most NGOs in this society are actually renters of European ideas and purchasers of human rights ideas. Otherwise, when it comes to solutions relating to the part where police powers are concerned, I think it is in line with modern solutions in Europe, where the political control technology of the population is well developed. Of course, it should be kept in mind that the police are coming out of a very difficult period, from a period of sanctions and wars, where the police paid a very high price of it, perhaps the greatest, because it was pushed into hell during that period. However, after the change in 2001, I think it is very important to pay attention to why there has been no change in 2001, 2002 and 2003. This is what I want to point out because the Bill on Police is not only a speech on this law, but also on the law, so I would draw your attention that former police minister, Mr. Mihajlovic, said in his memoirs that Djindjic's government had taken over the mafia from a previous period. He also points out that Djindjic's contacts have made it difficult for him to fight the mafia, so for me, this observation by Mr. Mihajlovic is very interesting, because from the government where Mr. Mihajlovic was minister no one has denied these allegations, no one has reported in this regard. On the other hand, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, deputy prime minister of the 2003 government, the Sabrela government of Zoran Zivkovic, said in his memoirs that they were forced to be both police officers and prosecutors, and judges, and MPs, and to talk to the mafia, and everything else. Probably that's why so many acts couldn't even be discovered, because when you have those who are both cops, and judges, and prosecutors, and MPs, and they're talking to the mob, we have the legacy that we have. None of this was denied by members of the former government, although I expected it, since the government introduced religious and civic education, so if God hadn't committed them to anything, I thought at least they'd be bound by civic education. However, civil education does not oblige them, so there remains a conspiracy of silence. It should be kept in mind when it comes to the legacy, Goran Petrovic, a recent head of state security, said in his interview that Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic had given him orders to listen to journalists, so we learned what the position of journalists was and how their freedoms and rights were moving. Otherwise, due to the false story of the alleged red beret rebellion, we learned from Mr. Mihajlovic's memoirs, that Mr. Goran Petrovic did not go to the Tower for talks with red berets because he was taking his wife to the theater that night, so I don't even know how to talk about the seriousness of that so-called. Rebellion. There is evidence in government documents that there was no rebellion, but rather a protest of workers, and General Lukic explained it in good time. On the other hand, when it comes to this topic, about the solutions that exist in the Law and also on the subject, it should be noted that Mr. Mihajlovic also said that the head of the Communications Bureau, Mr. Vladimir Popovic, had discovered the scheme for cigarette smuggling, so that it would be good for him to give a lecture to UBPOK, to find out that cigarette smuggling schemes are going and that he was able to fight effectively. That's why they couldn't be expected to have some law on police or some police reform. Also, when it comes to what is causing this law to be discussed, it should be remembered that the 2001 government laid garners on the graves of Aleksandar Rankovic and Slobodan Penezic in May 2001. So it's one move so old-fashioned and amazing, that it couldn't have been expected from them by that government to make any more serious changes in the police. Since police control has caused great interest in a part of the MPs and various comments, I would like to point out a few details, primarily internal police control: it has or is not. Whether you call it one way or the other, it's just the same thing as legal solutions. Mr. Mihajlovic tried to solve the gap in this regard by introducing a general inspector, although the basis for such solutions does not exist in the Constitution and the law, so for the first time in this proposal we have internal police control which has been resolved in a very good way, because I don't think there have been any serious objections from the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and it is said that there is still a need for the police to give their solutions. Of course, it has been pointed out that solutions from some other laws should be taken, but I think that there is an important not personal but principled solution to really establish internal control, and most important in my opinion is external control, and this is parliamentary. The only parliament has the legitimacy to exercise control over police work and security services. Here were the words about it, and even in a public debate, that, let's say, British solutions are very good. I wonder if those who recommend these solutions can tell us something about what it looked like to control police work in Britain for examining the circumstances under which Dr. Kelly, who claimed there was no illegal weaponry in Iraq. I think it would be good for those who suggest these solutions to hear some examples from this British practice by conducting Dr. Kelly's case. There was also a suggestion that French solutions were very good, but I'm also interested in what the results of the controls are, let's say, in light of the circumstances under which the British princess lost her life in Paris, so I was wondering if the French police had any good solutions to control, if something had been missed and what was determined, let's say, why she was so long taken to the hospital, it must have taken her so long to lose blood. When it comes to British solutions, I would also draw attention to that unfortunate Brazilian who was killed in July of the month after the terrorist attacks on London. He's a gaster, he's in a hurry to work, and it's estimated he's got a bomb around him. He was killed with five shots. No one was responsible. It was found to be a mistake. The family received damages, but we got a new principle in Europe -- the police shoot first, and then determines identity. I have to say that at a time of emergency in the weekly Time, from a reporter's pen, it was released that police, like in England, should kill first, not arrest. It was published on March 20th, so on March 27th, Meljak came into the picture, and no one questioned whether the journalist might have encouraged some actions with his own text. So, I think that control should be, first of all, parliamentary, and I think internal control has good solutions. I think it's a good thing there was no example of Montenegro's Police Act, where some civil society organizations are controlling the police. To those who propose those solutions from the Montenegrin law, I recommend they ask these civil organisations what they have established by controlling police and their work after the murder of journalist Dusko Jovanovic, editor of "Dan", or for the murder of a senior police official, Scekic. It all happened recently. Work relations are well arranged and I don't think any more serious remarks could be made. Here were the words that the wages should be increased. Let's remind ourselves, in 1990, police officers had a salary of 1,300 marks. If they went to Kosovo for three months, they returned from 10,000 to 12,000 marks. However, that time has gone away, wars and sanctions have come, so that this price that has been paid in the last decade should not be ignored even today when talking about their incomes, which, of course, I think should be increased, if objectively possible within the budget. So, I think this law should be passed and I congratulate the Proposer on the good solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20983	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20984	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I personally congratulate all the Orthodox believers who are celebrating today the baptism of St. Luke and the family of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and I personally congratulate him on his fame, with the desire to return to the homeland as soon as possible, and in such a way that, as he does in the Hague case, he represents the interests of the state and the people. Mr Minister, I would like to refer to some of our concerns, and many of them, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, as one of the members of the Committee on Defence and Security, and to express, since we are talking about this subject, the personal satisfaction that the Committee on Defence and Security, for the first time since the multi-party in Serbia was restored, because Mr Mircic's relationship as chairman of the Committee towards the members and the MUP is such that it is absolute, which you would have said to the former or current DOS, transparently all that is being said there, so for the first time, it happened that the BIA came to the National Assembly building, which should be in the future, and submitted a report twice a year about its work. The SRS, because the chairman of the SRS Committee, and because we are working very actively on the state of affairs in Serbia's MUP, as MPs, has discussed this bill in the most detailed way. We believe, unlike the predecessors who spoke from your parliamentary group, that they are not the rights of police employees, at least as far as the part that treats them in their rights as employees is best solved. This is seen in Article 137 of the Law, first of all, when employees are left in a completely inappropriate way to keep on the watch in a variety of hypothetical, unsuspecting situations, which Jojic explained to you that they can last indefinitely and that they can really exhaust employees. On the other hand, we wanted to, as part of the overall demystification, which is the goal of today's third-rate politicians and failed forces on the political scene of Serbia, to enable this right for employees in the MUP, to work outside of their working hours, if it is not a conflict of interest and if the service does not suffer the consequences. The key amendments we have submitted, although each one is important in its own way, refer to Article 5. The bill of law, then in this first part of Article 9. It's a bill of law. In Article 5, we, because of the experience we have from the earlier period, are asking that the IAP in the course of the investigation cannot provide any information on certain perpetrators of criminal offences. During the famous anti-Sabbe action, when all human rights and norms were trampled in the most harsh way, the freedom of man guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, through the largest number of these statements, written by not the MUP, according to one of the former chiefs of the Bora Banjc, but someone else, and this second centre of power was the famous Communications Bureau, headed by Beba Popovic, in the most brutal way, are the defamation of the SRS president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, our party and the huge number of people who support us in Serbia. That is why we ask that such a provision in Article 5 be deleted. Because of what I said in the introduction, I think it is very important that several times a year the Minister of the Interior, which is an amendment to Article 9. The bill provides a report on its work to the National Assembly and the Committee, with the possibility of asking questions and receiving concrete answers. When it comes to this public work, unlike this truly well-founded commendation to my colleague Mircic, I cannot be satisfied with the public work so far when it comes to your ministry, especially in specific cases. Most of the time, I'm gonna stick to it today, because there's little time left to talk about, and it's about specific questions that you know about. Namely, a year ago, and then again in May, I renewed the "case" of the assassination of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who thanked the God of the failure, who ordered Vuk and Danica Draskovic, which was personally heard by senior police officers, such as General Branko Đurić, who in the process of the "Ibar Highway", during his testimony in the case, unequivocally said that he himself heard a certain Dragoljubica Pejic Gari, who told him that Danica Draskovic had asked him to assassinate the SRS president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and that he did not do so because he did not agree on the price with Danica Draskovic. Namely, she offered 400,000 euros, and a certain Dragoljub Pejic Gari sought 600,000 euros. They didn't make a deal, and that's how the plan was despondent. Right after that, the director of BIA, Mr. Rade Bulatovic, was the one you, Mr. Jocic, had to look for together with your colleague Mamul during the "Sabela" action, because he disappeared every lead, as if the black country had swallowed him, 48 hours, neither for Acu Tomic nor for that Bandur, the prison manager, knew where they were – now as BIA director, on the same renewed issue in July this year said "yes". He gave me a confirmed answer that the service has knowledge that in the city's MUP, processing the case of the Ibar highway, one of the witnesses came to such a statement, namely that he made such a statement as General Branko Djuric spoke of. I am now interested in why, despite all my demands on many occasions, until today's MUP has not delivered an official report on this. So, since I got a confirmed answer, I asked that we be fully informed about the case. We have repeatedly asked a question, and I am telling you all this because even today, if he had asked you here, Professor Vojislav Seselj, but you see, only in Broz's communist time would the Orthodox Serbs not have been able to mark the Christian glory with their family, so in such a situation today, as a Hague prisoner, our president. Mr. Minister, what I'm particularly interested in, which we didn't get an answer to, is the question of a jeep owned by the SRS. You know for a fact that on several occasions the Supreme Court has confirmed, on the basis of our notion, that the jeep is undoubtedly the property of our party and that at the time of the DOS-manlian raider in the country and immediately before the action "Sabbe" was taken by former Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, and then by such inaction, by not giving a reply and by not returning property, which is owned by the SRS, you are telling me to think that the same continuity of the takeover of the property that our party has. As for the amendments that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 70, other Members of our Parliament will talk about it, as far as the polygraph is concerned, we ask that it be deleted, and to Article 83, and that is the greatest danger, where we are also asking for it to be deleted so on. Targeted search. The powers given to the MUP in this regard point to some new kind of Sablje, which none of the citizens of Serbia would want, because one in the newer history of our country, therefore, dark weather and such behaviour by the leaders of the Republic government and the members of the MUP, headed by Dusan Mihajlovic, Nenad Milic and all those acting from the shadows, is something that will make the citizens remember, which is why many of them today suffer the consequences. We will also discuss details of the situation of the employees in the MUP, with a special accent, and we will also do so when the proposal for a 2006 budget, on the material and social situation of the employees of the MUP, for whom we ask it to be better, to pay better, to solve their housing problems, because these are the most painful points. If we want to have security for all citizens, for children living here and root out crime and corruption, which is the primary objective of the SRS, we need to give Serbia's MUP much better conditions to work. Once again, I demand that you give me answers to these specific questions so that we, as you have done today, have told Mr. Vukic who are really those who are trying to accuse the SRS today, failed politicians with less than 2% of the votes in Serbia, indeed one shame and shame for all citizens of Serbia who today, and thanks to you and your party's support, enjoy great privileges and have high positions in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20985	The word is made by MP Sanja Cekovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20986	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the previous speaker began to speak, I said, something Christian was born in her, congratulating the glory, and after that I really didn't think that, simply because of the very beginning, she would finally say such false things. Since the SRS today insisted on a statement made by Vlajko Senic, the vice-president of the SP, to reveal the truth, here I from this speaker ask the police minister to check whether Vuk Draskovic and his wife, Danica Draskovic, ordered murder and to trust a man, Branko Djuric, who is a participant, has been proven, killings at Ibarska masteral. Just one little detail of this, 400,000 euros, the euro did not exist then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20987	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20988	I appeal to a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges every MP to speak the truth from this pay phone. The fact that you found the excuse for the president and his wife in the fact that a colleague was pummeling the currency, that's not some solid argument to you. You did not disprove anything that counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said. After all, it's not about General Djuric, it's about the face, so under the name "Gari", which gave a statement that he wanted 600,000 marks in the name of the assassination for Vojislav Seselj. On the other hand, if you want the truth about General Djuric, you have all the documentation that's connected to the Ibar highway. Now, my dear colleague, I'm talking to you about what I witnessed, and there's a colleague named Pejcic, whose membership in the SPS you're contesting, so, the man who founded the SPO, but it doesn't matter. So much for morale inside the party. We were together when Vojislav Seselj, presenting documentation and regarding the Ibar highway, Vuk Draskovic was told - go out, hold a press conference and tell the truth. And the truth is one part of what the poll committee found, led by SPO representatives, and it pointed to the fact that Slobodan Milosevic and his regime were not in any way involved in the Ibar highway, but Zoran Djindjic and his business partners, who were called Legion, Japanese and others. There was also Spasoje Krunic, Bogoljub Pejčić, when Vojislav Seselj asked Vuk Draskovic to tell him - tell him for once in his life the truth. Yes, he went to the conference, and then he poured the trees and stones into Milosevic and his regime, blaming Radet Markovic. And why Radet Markovic? For the simple reason that Rade Markovic, while at the head of the DB, information about the preparation of the assassination at Vojislav Seselj told Vojislav Seselj, said Slobodan Milosevic and the entire service was familiar with this case. We are not talking here for reasons to accuse the SPO, and as it is in the tracks, it is obvious that there is no perspective, but we are telling you to prevent something that appears on the political scene of Serbia, which is that the easiest thing to do is to accuse others, it is the easiest thing to make yourself a victim. And on the other hand, when the truth is revealed, when you look at the background, they're involved on their own, and not just in the criminal activities, but in the actions that bind themselves to the preparation of the assassination. After all, we insist that this case be brought to court by a court of law, that we submit the documentation, so that Danica Draskovic can come out, so let her say whether it is true what Pejic said or not. We want to hear it in court, not from the pay phone, how you're unwisely defending it, by mentioning the currency, which was valid and which was not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20989	The word has a People's MP Branislav Nedimovic, and may the MP Darko Glisic be prepared, I'm sorry, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20990	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, much has been said today about the draft law on police. We've heard more arguments than we've heard arguments against the Bill of Police. I feel the need to present a few more arguments in favour of the adoption of the proposed law on police. The topic that lies before us today is extremely interesting, especially for the public. There's a lot of reasons for that, but I'd focus on a few. First of all, it is a subject that carries in itself always a dose of speciality because of the specific role of the police in the system of state authorities. Also, this topic is important for the adoption of international standards in the police system in Serbia, and the most important reason why we should adopt the proposed law on police is because this law gives police a new role. Police become the service of citizens, becoming what each state body plays in modern legal systems. For a long time, the Bill of Police has been in the assembly procedure. The previous authorities did not have enough will to adopt the police law in the form it should exist. The government of the Republic of Serbia as one of the main aspirations had to adopt a new law on police. The question can be asked why so far the police law has not been discussed in the Serbian Parliament. It was simply because the new Law on State Administration was first to be adopted, it was necessary to pass a new Law on civil servants, so that the principle of depolitisation and the principle of putting expertise first would come to full prominence within the framework of the police law. The existing concept of the internal affairs system was passed by the Internal Affairs Act in 1991. We had some changes in 1996. Logically, we see that it has been almost 14 years since the basic text of the law when it was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's been a long time since, a lot of things have changed. Contemporary police are acting on very different principles than they were 15 years ago. Also, in 2002, a new Security and Information Agency Act was adopted, where a completely new concept of the security system of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. The law on police is the logical consequence of rounding up the internal affairs system in the Republic of Serbia and therefore the bill on police should be adopted. The specificity of the matter which is processed in the proposal is primarily reflected in the fact that police are a complex system of professional type, which is organised to maintain public order and order in society and which is for this purpose supplied with legal powers and necessary means, including the use of means of coercion. It is this possibility of using force that gives the police special content, while at the same time giving special responsibility to those to whom this possibility is given. It is publicly good for the police to be strong and effective in protecting public order and preventing crime, but it is a public good that this power we give to the police does not go to the expense of our citizens' personal freedoms. Looking through history, Serbia has accepted modern materials that existed in many legal systems both in Europe and the world. We remember in 1811, when the internal affairs custody was established under the Rule of the Governing Council and then at the head of the custody was Jakov Nenadovic. Just looking at tradition, looking at modern society movements today, Serbia wants to adopt a new law on police, a law that will be permeated by international standards that apply in this area. For this very reason, as they entered the Council of Europe in 2003, Serbia-Montenegro agreed to introduce certain international standards in the framework of police functioning and to implement police reform, a reform of an extremely important, perhaps one of the most important state bodies in the state administration system. All the countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia have already passed police laws, in 1998 Slovenia passed a new law on police, in the process of joining the European Union, in 2000 the law also adopted Croatia. Serbia, by adopting this law that will adopt the assembly, will adopt a new law on police that will pave the way for European integration. The police organisation shall adapt to the specific conditions in which people live and work, i.e. the relevant areas and the need for direct, concrete, urgent and humane treatment at any place where security reasons so require. For this very reason, it is firstly necessary to take care of the interests of Serbian citizens and to make the police a true service of Serbian citizens. In short, I'm going to look at a few solutions from the proposed law on police. This is primarily the formation of a police directorate, whose primary task is to achieve police affairs. The police department will be headed by a police director, a person completely deprived of political influence, a person who will characterise expertise. The law suggests that this person has at least nine years of effective police work. This is exactly what Serbia needs, to get professionalism first. In the proposed law on police, only the ministerial post will be political, and all of this goes in favour of the story we had when the Law on Civil Servants was adopted, that Serbia and the state administration needed full depolitisation. In the end, I would refer to two institutes offered by the Bill of Police. This is the introduction of a fund that would serve as a means of financial assistance for members of the families of the dead and wounded police officers. That is what the least the Republic of Serbia can do for those who have given their lives to defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia. We've all witnessed numerous events in the '90s. It was the police who undoubtedly carried one of the greatest burdens on them. That is why we must pay tribute to those who have remained behind these officers and those whose lives have been changed greatly in the circumstances that have occurred in our near past. Also, police co-operation with representatives of territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government is an extremely important segment in police functioning. The reference to each other is enormous, especially because none of these factors can be viewed in isolation, especially when it comes to local self-government, which is essential for the police to maintain the safety of all people through their administrations or police stations. For this reason, the proposed solutions are within Articles 17 and 18. The draft law on police, given the possibility for the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government to participate in improving the working conditions of the organisational units of police and in implementing certain programmes of importance for the security of people, property in a given area, in accordance with the law, in accordance with their own resources. Surely this mechanism will give many positive effects because it is the interest of local self-government to keep citizens in a certain space as safe as possible, and they will certainly, if they recognize certain projects as real, help police administrations to protect citizens and property in a certain space as best possible. In the end, since I see time running out, I'd say that the state administration reform system has no alternative. Serbia has no alternative to European integration. It is precisely the draft law on police that makes a significant contribution to state administration reform, and Serbian citizens will know that they recognise it. That is why I call on you, in the interest of Serbian citizens, to support this proposal for a police law and in the day of voting, to make a positive statement on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20991	Thank you. The Messenger of the People has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20992	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bill of Police, which we are talking about today, is certainly nothing revolutionary, is not the text they are trying to present to us by either the minister or the MPs who will vote for this law. We from the SRS, you heard today's debate from colleagues who spoke before me, we do not expect that in the application of this law something significant will be better in this certainly very important area in Serbia. When the minister spoke here, he said something that sounds very nice. Minister, you said this law guarantees everyone's safety, not like the laws so far, only the citizens of Serbia, but everyone in Serbia's territory. It's really nice and it is our duty and yours. Everyone must be safe on Serbia's territory. But I object to why you did not discuss this with your party friends a few days ago, before they accepted that shameful agreement in the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, which Vuk Draskovic previously did not ask anyone to sign, which refers to the crossing of NATO troops across Serbia's territory, where apparently no one guarantees security for the sake of the agreement signed and which is unfortunately ratified. I see, you are predicting here, and that is what you have pointed out, that you will guarantee security and these NATO representatives who will go through Serbia because they too will be in Serbia's territory. So your good intentions are obvious, but it's not good that this problem has not been seen with all aspects and I say that especially a few days ago in so-called. to the federal parliament, or parliament of the Serbia-Montenegro community. The main objections of the SRS parliamentary group to the bill could be settled into three groups. First, it is very important to me, especially as a lawyer, that there are several provisions of this law that are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we have submitted the corresponding number of amendments. Because of the time we have at our disposal, I can't speak individually of which provisions are involved, but certainly, when we talk about details, I hope that you will still be with us, as you are today, so we will talk about these amendments and your proposed solutions. I expect that at least that group of amendments will be accepted. As far as I have information, the committee in charge has not yet considered amendments, or at least not all, so it's a shame to talk about it until we know what you on behalf of the Government will accept from the total amendments submitted. The second observation refers to one part of the provisions that are unarranged, incorrect, not concrete, whose application can cause abuse, and some new "Sabbe" can be born out of such abuse. I am convinced that you do not want it, that it is not your intention, especially that you yourself, not you personally, and your party friends had problems in the action of "Sabbe", as well as 12 thousand honest citizens, who were completely unconstitutionally and illegally arrested, spent a certain number of days and months, without any legal basis, in custody. In order to avoid anyone who is not honest enough and who is not willing to work in Serbia's interest, and who will be able to apply this law, we have proposed a number of amendments, with a sincere intention of improving the text of the law and eliminating any doubt and possible gaps in the bill. For a year and a half, as we have been discussing the proposals of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, we have been persistently trying to draw your attention that your laws are quite, at least in one part, inconclusive, general, that the legal norm is not clear, precise, concise and that this is the reason for the abuse in the application of these regulations. Some of the ministers sometimes have an understanding and accept such amendments, of course, for their own good, and we'll see how you react. The third group of our objections refers to the position of police officers. We do not think that these legal solutions create conditions for a better position of employees in the police, nor in the matter of labour law status, nor in the matter of material position. Of course, I know that the material position cannot be fully regulated directly by this law. I know it depends on the budget and, in this particular case, the finance minister, but it's the lack of your government. I think it was necessary for the working-legal status of police officers to be leveled with all other officials in Serbia and that this law must have a basis in the Labour Act. As many objections to this law as we have, some solutions are better, at least when it comes to overtime, employment, etc., than you predicted in this bill. That's where we submitted a number of amendments. I'm sorry we don't have time to talk about concrete objections and concrete members of this bill, but in a few days we'll be talking about it too. We in the SRS think the police are really a significant segment of society. We think police officers, police officers, people of whom much depends on public order, traffic security, security of all citizens. We want these people treated in this way both by this Parliament and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the basis for that is a good law on police. That's why I was a little bit uncomfortable earlier when one of my colleagues from the ruling majority, by no means challenged, returned to 1991 and mentioned police officers who went to Kosovo and Metohija, and it somehow seemed to me in a negative context; I strongly resent that colleague, I am surprised that he spoke just like that. On the contrary, I think that every cop who's been to KIM deserves absolute protection and attention from each of us and protection from these threats coming from both the UN tribunal and some parties within the ruling coalition and those NGOs. Afterward, a second colleague spoke in another context, and what a colleague had said before him was about to be analized. I don't want to say names, because I have no intention of challenging replicas. I think we're all talking about this law very seriously and professionally. I expect, Minister, that you will take seriously all of our discussions, especially our amendments, and I expect that, at least those amendments that really improve and introduce this legal text into constitutional frameworks, you will accept. I will take this opportunity, you are today at the rehearsal of our new Rules of Procedure, since the President of the Assembly has not allowed us to use, I do not know exactly which member of the Rules of Procedure, where ministers are obliged to answer the questions of the MPs. You've answered some questions today, and I expect you'll answer another one, which you've heard from an SRS colleague. For the sake of the public, I would like to introduce you to the Serbian Supreme Court's ruling in 2094/03, that the verdict has been a respected lawsuit and an annulled solution by the Serbian Ministry of Border Police for Foreigners and Administrative Affairs, some since 21 May 2003. It's about the Ministry's solution when the minister was the one from Povna, your predecessor. When the president of the SRS voluntarily went to The Hague, we, his associates, friends in the party, organized the assembly, agreed and reached the conclusion that we would sign up to the Registrar NGO of the Committee for Defence of Vojislav Seselj, with the intention of helping defend our president through the functioning and functioning of this committee. Of course, we did the statutes and everything absolutely according to the Law on Social Organizations and Citizens' Associations. I had the authority to, on behalf of that committee, unregistered then, communicate with the MUP and the officers in charge, who received this case, have looked at the documentation. They told me what else was missing, it was completed, and they told me -- come in a week, you'll be enrolled in the registry. Sunday, Monday, four, five weeks passed, of course every time they felt very uncomfortable and they came up with some new reasons, and apparently there's no reason, that for this reason or that reason they can't write us down yet. The last time I came here, the woman in charge of the case was, of course, I won't tell her her name, she said - I'm sorry, I can't tell you this, but don't waste any more time, I can't bring a solution, I can't give us Minister Mihajlovic. Of course, after that, we addressed the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights and Minister Ljajic in about three or five days we received a solution to enrolling the committee, but at the level of the state community. We have continued to insist that this association be entered at Serbia level and we have acted on a legitimate decision, namely the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the number I have dictated to you, I will ask you, not now, but when we talk about amendments, whether or not the Ministry of the Border Police, whether they have received this ruling and whether they have followed this verdict, whether they have signed up the Defence Committee for Vojislav Seselj in the register of the Republic's MUP, or if any of this is to be completed. But since it has been a month since we received the committee, as an authorised person, I have not received any notice that this request should be completed, and I will take the opportunity to take the next time in this House we see that I expect you will give us an answer to this question as well. I have spoken of the bill more than planned time in principle, I would no longer ask the minister to seriously consider amendments of the SRS parliamentary group, to adopt these amendments, and you will see that with such amendments you receive one more comprehensive, more concrete and better text of the law. We'll talk about the details on the day it's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20993	The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20994	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Minister Jocic, since there are only 12 minutes left, I don't know if any of my colleagues who are registered to speak will be able to speak. Very short on the principle of a few observations, mostly those that are not spoken, and I will try not to be like those observations made by my colleagues, regarding individual members of the law. Before that, I would like to read once in my reasons for passing the law in one sentence that we are passing this law because it is in the interest of citizens, the state of Serbia, in the interest of those people whose law will be intended, especially when it comes to police, a law that will cover not only all our citizens, but also in a certain way, will bring certain credibility to the Republic of Serbia itself. I wish that in one law, and so far it has not been in each one, in the first sentence it has to be made clear that we are meeting the Council of Europe or I don't already know which European institution. I'd be very happy to read in some bill of law that it's in the interest of the state. As for the objections to individual members, very briefly, I will try not to repeat myself with my predecessors. Article 24, which handles the chapter of the district police administration, states what are the tasks of the district police administration. I am interested, given that the minister will, in the agreed opinion of the police director, appoint and relieve a police officer, which are school conditions for the minister to appoint the officer. Is that like a high school high school headmaster or not? I believe that a person who comes to the post of head of the district police administration should also prescribe a condition that he has high professional training, especially in smaller areas, can have a strong impact on the credibility of the police, as it may happen if someone does not have certain school equipment and enough police experience, it is very easy to fall under the influence of some local powers and thus destroys the credibility of the police themselves. Also, I'd like you to make it clear about article 100. In Section 2, you have to say that when performing an official task, an authorised official may use firearms, under one to protect the lives of people, and two to prevent the escape of a person found in the execution of a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted by official duty and for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for 10 years or more severe punishment, and in the event of immediate danger to life. I think this behind-the-point supplement is unnecessary, because if there's a direct threat to life, then it's about refusing to attack, not preventing escape. It will be difficult for a police officer to assess whether or not the crime for which he intervenes is a 10-year sentence. So, I'd like an explanation by that article. Also, I would like to touch on Article 110, which was submitted by my colleague Petar Jojic, and I think you will accept that amendment, because he asks that point 7 be deleted in Article 110, because the SRS believes that the existence of this provision in this article of the bill would open up the possibility of numerous abuses in practice by informants and associates. Something similar to Article 137, where the amendment was submitted by counterpart Mircic, it also cannot be considered work for national holidays and the days of unemployment, but it must be paid in particular to anyone who is scheduled for such work. In the event that they remain in the Proposal for this Act, points 2) and (4), serious abuses by individual managers may occur to the detriment of police officers. Some ministry elders can decide under that provision when they feel that each situation is an unpredictable task and thus put some officers in a very uncomfortable position. I'd like you, Minister, to clarify to me a member of 149 on the terms of reference to another organisational unit. What if it's directed by interruptions? It says here that a police officer can be assigned to do official jobs and jobs at another ministry organisation unit, more than 50km from his place of residence, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days to one year. What if you take a break one day, and you send it back to the same time interval. There may be abuse of those who act on this article. I would also like an explanation for Article 151 of the foreign reference, as well as for the last Article 182, and before him for a short while, I try not to repeat what the predecessors have said, I am interested in Article 168. This article in 168 is, as an ex-member, 45. The Internal Affairs Act, absolutely unconstitutional and gives too much authority to the police, that they can always fire any employee at any time. Finally, Article 182 specifies funding, i.e. funds for the Ministry's work. It is clearly said in the first position that they are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it is said that the ministry can make additional funds by providing services in connection with the primary activity of the ministry. Basic activity is listed in Article 10, what police are involved in, dealing with every police officer and authority of the MUP. I would like an explanation: and what kind of tasks would it be that could have a cash compensation, which the MUP would engage in, as said in Article 3 following the Government's approval. I'd like to, and I'd like to ask the chairman not to go in at the time of my parliamentary group to ask a parliamentary question, as far as your portfolio is concerned. The parliamentary question is: how long did it take to realize the building project for the needs of the Ubo Department of Interior? The explanation is very simple. I think your deputy, Mr. Milosevic, also had a chance to see what conditions the Ubo police are working on. When it rains they sit with open umbrellas in their rooms, in winter they sit in cars, because that room can't warm up, or they're already looking for a place to stay. So it's a completely unconditional and inadequate workroom. The local self-government has taken a lot of steps on this matter, it's secured space, I think the project has been done, and I think it's the only thing at the Ministry of the Interior to take measures to make sure that these police officers, who are working there, have even decent working conditions, because really ministers what you're about to see yourself, you're going to say that you wouldn't be putting off some of the junk in those rooms, let alone keeping the cops working for you there and doing those duties, and among other things, and that they're acting under this law about the police that we're considering today. I'd like to, since I don't think you have the likely information with you right now, to answer in writing in time that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly foresees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-31-0.u20995	National MP Nemanja Sarovic is not there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. That's what we do today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the meetings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Report on the work of the Committee on Papers from Values in 2004. Yearly, with an annual account for 2004. You have received a report on the work of the Securities Commission in 2004, with an annual account for 2004, and an independent auditor's report on the financial reports of the Securities Commission for 2004, which is in accordance with Article 242 of the National Assembly. The law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments, in order to confirm the submission by the Securities Commission. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, with a proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's report on the work on securities, with an annual account for 2004 and a report from an authorised auditor. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does Milko Stimac, president of the Securities Commission, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) The People’s Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, appeared in the word. The only list that has arrived is a list of SRS - five MPs. The Messenger of the People has the word of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
