ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall and that we can begin today's work. No one reported a leave. We're moving to a decision on the bill's proposals from the agenda of this session. Before we go to the polls, I'm taking a break until 11:00 to get all the technical preparations done. Thank you. [[After break 11,40 hours]] Since it is voting day, before we move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the pension and disability insurance law, please check that we have a voting quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that using the electronic system has confirmed that there is a voting quorum. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the pension and disability insurance law in principle. For 127, against 99, he did not vote one of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Slobodan Adzic, at the session of the Committee on Labour, Borary and Social Affairs, withdrew the amendment to Article 75, and MPs Vesna Obradovic and Vladimir Homan, by written means, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 70, and that an integral part of the bill became amendments which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Milojub Albianic, to Articles 15 and 22 and to the proposal for the addition of a new member of 75 and the amendment of the People's MPs of Miloljub Albianić to Articles 75 and Zoran Angelkovic to Articles 64, 65 and 79. Before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 128, it did not vote 74 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 105, it did not vote 42 out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 101, abstentions 71, there was no vote of 54, of the 229 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 103, 54 of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, 54 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 103, 53 of the 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 102, 56 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 12th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, 57 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 103, 56 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 19th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 101, abstentioned 72, did not vote 55 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee of Work, the martial arts and social issues did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, 59 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, 57 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 105, it did not vote 124, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 103, abstention 71, he did not vote 41, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 130, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 101, was not voted by 129 of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56, out of 231 MPs. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 104, it was not 125, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 104, there was no 54 vote, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 70th amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, against one, abstentioned 72, was not voted 29, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic and joint MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 195, against 5, 30 of the 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee of Work, the martial arts and social issues did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 102, 55 of the 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, against four, abstentioned 72, he did not vote 31, of the 229 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, 55 of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 73rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against one, abstentioned 72, did not vote 31, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, 59 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121 against 6, abstention 72, they did not vote 32, out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Meko Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 101, it did not vote 57 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 75b be added after Articles 75 and 75a. The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, against two, abstentioned 72, they did not vote 34, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. For 127, against 74, they did not vote 32 out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Fundes and PENSION PLANS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans on principle. For 127, against 74, they did not vote 32 out of 233 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle, I remind you that MP Milojub Albianic, by written means, has withdrawn the amendment to Article 39. Proposal for a law, and the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure, dismissed as the untimely amendments of MP Susana Grubjesic to the article. 23, 27, 30, 31, 39, 46, 51. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the people's MPs, Miloljub Albianic, in an article. 33, 47 with correction and 48th and Zoran Angelkovic in Art. 52nd and 76th. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 4, MP Zoran Krasic, the government and the Committee on Finance, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102 abstentions 18, no vote was made by 40, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, 20 abstentions, 38 of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 101, abstention 23, did not vote 36, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102 abstentions 24, they did not vote 34 out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 103 abstentions of 20, 36 of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 100, abstentioned 24, 37 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 103, 96 of the 231 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 23. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, it did not vote 106, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment to Article 27. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 106, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs tabled an amendment to Article 30. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, it was not 105, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 31. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 106, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 39. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, they did not vote 103 out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 46. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, it was not 105, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 99, it did not vote 85 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 51. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, it did not vote 104 out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 102, 80 of the 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 76th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 62, out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans in general. For 127, against 70, it did not vote 34 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on voluntary pension funds and pension plans. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGETING OF THE PENSION AND INVALID CERTIFICATES OF THE CATEGORIES OF OBJECTIVES As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. Putting on a vote Proposal for a law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance workers, in principle. For 128, against 69, there was no vote of 35, of 232 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs Slobodan Adzic, Heliana Dragojevic and Ljubisa Djokovic to Article 2, Ljiljana Nestorović to Articles 4 and 5, and Meho Omerovic to Article 6 and the amendment to which he proposed the addition of a new member of 11a; that they became an integral part of the Bill's amendment of the People's MPs Meha Omerovic, to members 4 and Ljiljana Nestorovic, who proposed the addition of a new article 10a. In addition, an integral part of the bill's proposal has also become the amendments to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, to Article 5 and the amendment, which is proposed to add a new Article 11a, which was adopted by the proposing representative. Following the completion of the examination of the draft law in particular, the Legislative Committee assessed that these amendments were legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Zoran Krasic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 58, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 100, they did not vote 62 out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against two, it did not vote 105, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 101, he did not vote 61, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Labour, the Borary and Social Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, against two, they did not vote 103 out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the proposings and the Committee of Work, the martial arts and social issues did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 101, 59 of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, it did not vote 57, of the 229 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 57, of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee of Work, the martial arts and social issues did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, 56 of the 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 10th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 55, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 101, they did not vote 62 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. As we have decided on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the payment of pension and disability insurance contributions for certain categories of insurance workers, in general. For 132, against 72, there were no 28 votes, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a bill on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance workers. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the re-reimbursement of the Republic Fund on Pensions and Invalid Security of Employees under the basis of non-paid pensions and monetary compensations, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft public debt law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of persons employed on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines. For 131, there was no vote of 100, of the 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft public debt law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of persons employed on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations, in general. For 131, there was no vote of 100, of the 231 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a Bill on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of commitments made by the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, resulting from non-payments of pensions and fines. We move on to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the re-reimbursement of the Republic Fund on Pensions and Invalidal Security of Polijoprovniks based on the basis of non-paid pensions and monetary compensations since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft public debt law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, in principle. For 128, they did not vote 103 out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment to the bill. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 100, it did not vote 56 out of 231 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft public debt law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations, in general. For 128, they did not vote 102 out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a Bill on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of commitments from the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines. That concludes the vote on a set of pension laws. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Code of Criminal Code proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft criminal code to the vote, in principle. For 133, it did not vote 99 out of 232 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Code of Criminal Code, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the Code of Criminal Code in principle, let me remind you of which amendments have been withdrawn and which amendments have become an integral part of the Code of Criminal Code. Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, minister of justice at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the government's amendment to Article 432. It's a bill of law. The amendment was written by the MPs: - Petar Jojic to the members 45, 60, 105, 114, 310, 346, 370, 371, 373, 374, 376, 378, 386, 391, and 392, which he submitted on 25 May 2005, and then submitted new amendments to the same members of the bill on 9 September. Also, Petar Jojic withdrew the amendment to Article 432, which was submitted to the same member on 26 May 2005 and submitted a new amendment on 12 September 2005; - Petar Jojic and Vitomir Plužarevic, to Article 372, which together submitted on 25 May 2005, - Petar Jojić and Sulejman Spaho, to Article 103, which together submitted on 25 May 2005, - Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, to members 79 and 194, - Ljiljana Nestorović, the amendment that was submitted on 22 July 2005, to several members of the Bill proposal, and to members: 310, 321, 331, 333, 333, 346, 370, 371, 373, 374, 376, 376, 376, 391, and 392, with the submission of new amendments to each of these members, - Goran Rakovac, to Article 366, 333, 333, 333, 333, 376, 371, 371, 373, 373, 374, 374, 376, 376, 376, 376, 391 and 392, and 392, with each of which was submitted to the following each of the following the following amendments of the following the following amendments, - Goran Rakovac, to Articles to Article 356, to Articles of the second Article 356, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28, 28 and 25, 28, 28 and 25, of the members of the members of the members of the members of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Members: 310, 321, 331, 333, 336, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 376, 378, 386, 391, and 392, - Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Articles 117, 118, 119, 253 and 259, - Djordje Mamula, Articles 134, 143, 185, 289, 335, 336, and 343, - Zivodarka Dacin, amendments proposing that a new member of 108 be added after article 108 and that a new title and new member of 192 be added after Article 192. During the search of the draft law in principle, amendments that the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept, the MPs withdrew: - Zarko Obradovic, to Articles 45, 46, 103, 104, to add a new title and Article 147a, 208, 359 and Article 432, and - Rajko Baralić, to Articles 35, 43, to add a new title to Articles 53 and 106 to Article 106. The amendments that were accepted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the representative of the motionors at the meeting of the Committee, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible, were: - on Article 4 which, in the same text, was submitted by the Members of the Members of the Parliament of the People of the Parliament of the People of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia – Mr. Djorđe Mamul, - sent together by Mr. Petar Jojić, the Members of the Parliament of the People of the Republic of Croatia, the Members of the Republic of Croatia, the Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the Members of the People of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the Members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Croatia, the Member of Slovenia of Slovenia of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 144(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal-technical order of the Code of Criminal Code Proposal. I am putting to the vote the legal-technical order of the Code of Criminal Code Proposal, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 128, they did not vote 94 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the legal and technical order of the Code of Criminal Code Proposal, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20427	National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 4th amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 102, 57 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 99, he did not vote 51, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 4a be added after article 4. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 125, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 98, it did not vote 40 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 95, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 93, he did not vote 61, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 94, 49 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 96, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 52, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 94, they did not vote 43, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 53rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic and joint MPs Petar Jojic and Vitomir Plužarevic. At the meeting of the Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Proposer shall propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 89, they did not vote 44 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 93, they did not vote 44 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 97, it did not vote 55 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 95, he did not vote 41, out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Heliana Dragojevic, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 73, did not vote 66 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Heliana Dragojevic, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas together. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 90, 112 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 94, they did not vote 43, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 92, they did not vote 42 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 94, there was no vote of 110, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 94, there was no vote of 110, out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 86th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 93, 109 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 95, no 38 of the 219 MPs voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 143rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 92, it did not vote 44, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 143 by MP Zoran Krasic of the Committee on Justice and Administration and by a representative of the motions at the Committee's session, proposing that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 95, they did not vote 53 of the 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that two new members of 145 and 145b be added after article 145. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 94, it did not vote 106, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 148th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 97, there were no 38 votes, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 of the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83 against 96, it did not vote 39 out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 97, there was no vote of 40, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 94, no vote was taken by 40, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 170th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 96, 36 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and Article 170a be added after article 170. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 80, there was no 131 vote of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Bosko Ristic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20428	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President and Vice-President Angelkovic, all the results of the vote so far have been incorrect since the moment Mr Predrag Markovic, Parliament Speaker and Vice-President Angelkovic left the hall, and their presence has been recorded, so that the number of members present in the hall did not correspond to the fact and real state. The total vote that was during that time cannot produce legal consequences. Article 119. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20429	Mr. Ristic, president of the assembly and vice president, as I was informed, were in the O.R. I guess you didn't see that. In the event that you are not satisfied with this response, you may request the Assembly to declare in the day of the vote the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20430	I am re-advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because David Copperfield has not yet arrived in Belgrade, coming on October 2nd. I want to inform the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20431	The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 171 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 89, did not vote 76 of the 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 171a be added after article 171a. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 2, against 100, there was no 113 vote of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 172. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 101, it did not vote 107, of the 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 177th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 103, 99 of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 178th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 100, it did not vote 39 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 178th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be adopted, the proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 103, they did not vote 32 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 179th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, they did not vote 42 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 179th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be adopted, the proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 92, it was not 37, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 180th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 4, against 104, there was no vote of 108, of the 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 180th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be adopted, the proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85 against 97, they did not vote 34 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 102, they did not vote 33, of the 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 181 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, against 87, with three abstentions, did not vote 33, out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 181st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 99, it did not vote 35 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 181 of the amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it wasn't 117 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 99, they did not vote 104 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 184 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 104, 99 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment with correction was submitted to article 185 by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 105, it did not vote 97 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 186 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 103, they did not vote 33, of the 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted an amendment with a correction to the title above Articles 191 and 191. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65 against 66, 88 of the 219 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 191 by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15 against 97, it did not vote 108, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 194th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 104, 98 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Leila Ruzdić Trifunović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Heliana Dragojevic, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Zivkucin, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic and Djordje Cukvas. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 98, two abstentions, 99 did not vote, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 195 by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 100, it was not 103 out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 196 by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 101, it did not vote 105, of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 229th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 96, 122 of the 219 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to Article 230. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 76, he did not vote 101, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 246 by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 75, it did not vote 116, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 269 by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 97, 112 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic tabled an amendment proposing that three new members of 269a, 269b, 269c, be added after article 269c. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 98, there was no 111 vote of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 271st amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 93, it did not vote 114 out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 276th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 98, 109 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 277th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 91, it did not vote 119 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 277th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 95, 109 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 316th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected. A representative of the proposings at the National Assembly's session informed that the government accepts this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 191, 30 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 337th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 99, there were no 118 votes, of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 342, the amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 99, there was no vote of 49, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic to Article 369. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 96, there was no 113 vote of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly tabled by MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic, the Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the Committee's committee, proposing that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. By 7, against 98, a abstentioned one, had not voted 113 out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Miodrag Djidic and Bosko Ristic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a member of 386 be added after article 386. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 95, it did not vote 119 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 431 by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposing committee shall propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee shall consider that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 78, there was no 113 vote of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on a bill of criminal law, in general. I'm putting the draft criminal code to the vote, in general. 20 of the 221 MPs did not vote for 201. The National Assembly passed the Code of Criminal Code. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Minority Factors of Criminal Acts and Criminal Protection of Minority Persons After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors, in principle. 97 of the 220 MPs did not vote for 123. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Prime Minister's amendment to Article 168 was withdrawn. The draft law became an integral part of the amendments of the People's MPs Đorđa Mamula, to Articles 3, 19, 21, 30, 31, 41, 62 and 100, to the title above Articles 101 and 101, to Articles 112, 115 and 146, to the title of Part Three and to Articles 152, 152, 162, 163 and 167; Goran Rakovac and Petar Cvetkovic to Article 32, to the title above Articles 34 and 34, and to Article 40; Bozidar Koprivica to Article 67; Vjerice Radite to Article 69; Ljiljana Nestorović to Article 90; Petra Jojic to Article 151 and the amendment proposed the addition of a new member of 167 and Milos Aligrudić to Article 168, submitted to the same text. Before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the Bill on Minority Criminal Crimes and Criminal Protection of Juvenile Persons, carried out by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law on minor offenders and the criminal protection of minors. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 126, against one, they did not vote three out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 105, 29 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, with a correction, were together submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 104, they did not vote 103 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 102, there was no 107 vote, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 101, it did not vote 105, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 95, it did not vote 108, out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 102, 98 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, versus 98, they did not vote 103 out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 100, they did not vote 102 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 99, they did not vote 104 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 105, it did not vote 37, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 100, there was no vote of 100, of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 102, he did not vote 41, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 100, he did not vote 101, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 98, they did not vote 103 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 94, the vote was not 106, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 68th amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 198, it did not vote 14 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 97, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 102 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verse of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, they did not vote 42 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 82nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Ristic and Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 150 of the amendment by MP Bosko Ristić, Representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 102, they did not vote 103 out of 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 150th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 99, it did not vote 108, of the 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 102, he did not vote 41, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, against 104, they did not vote 34 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 151st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 102, there were no 28 votes, out of 170 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 157th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 102, 30 of the 141 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 104, 25 of the 141 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on juvenile offenders and criminal justice protection of minors, in general. For 128, it did not vote 14, of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on juvenile offenders and criminal justice protection of minors. We move to the 8th point of the agenda:– PROPOSAL ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CRIME SANCTIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the motion for a law on the execution of criminal sanctions, in principle. For 127, it did not vote 16 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law, in principle, I remind you that at its meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the motion has withdrawn the amendment to Article 282. It's a bill of law. Part of the Bill's draft became an amendment of the People's MPs: Petra Cvetkovic, to members: 1, 8, 26, 28, 37, 39, 48, 63, 70, to the title above Article 86, to the members: 102, 103, 131, 132, 135, 135, 140, 143, 155, to the title above Article 156 and Article 156, to Article 159, to Article 170, to the title above Article 173, and Article 173, to Article 211, to Section 1. Chapter 9, Article 219, Title Section 3. Chapter 9, Articles 229 and 230, heading 5. Articles 233, 235, 237, 250, 254, 260, 267, 276, with correction and Article 281; Jovan Palalić, to members: 12, 13, 15, 101, 116, 182, to the title above Article 183 and Article 183, to the title above Articles 186 and 186, to the title above Articles 187 and 187, to the title above Articles 188 and 188, to the title above Articles 189, and to Articles 189, and 191; Petra Jojic to Article 20 and Milos Aligrudić to Article 282. It's a bill of law. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 144(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal-technical order of the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions. I am voting on a legal-technical order, which was carried out by the Legislative Committee. For 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, a representative of the proposings and the Committee on Justice and Administration, who did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 103, 37 of the 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 99, it did not vote 43, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 98, it did not vote 47 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 99, he did not vote 41, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 96, it did not vote 46 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, it did not vote 39, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 95, it did not vote 46 out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 100, 38 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 101, he did not vote 41, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 99, 39 of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, it did not vote 37 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 100, they did not vote 43, out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 105, they did not vote 33, out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 36, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 101, it did not vote 37, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 97, he did not vote 41, out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 102, 36 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 134th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 97, they did not vote 44, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 136th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 98, he did not vote 41, out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 140th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 96, he did not vote 41, out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 146th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 100, it did not vote 40 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verica Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 98, it did not vote 39 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 98, they did not vote 42 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 152nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 100, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, out of 207 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 98, he did not vote 41, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 155th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 100, 39 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 163rd Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 100, he did not vote 41, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the motion for a law on the execution of criminal sanctions, in general. For 126, five of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the execution of criminal sanctions. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Participants in Criminal Procedure Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, in principle. For 122, six out of 128 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the proposal in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the amendments were withdrawn: MP Slobodan Vuković, member of 6 who submitted, together with MP Slobodan Pajovic and MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, to Article 43. An integral part of the bill's proposal became amendments to the MPs: Petar Jojic, member of 6, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meha Omerovic, member of 10th and Slobodan Vukovic, member of 26th. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, they did not vote 22 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Since the electronic system shows that there are currently 126 MPs in the O.R., I am terminating the vote and giving a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20432	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's see if we can continue our work. To determine the quorum to begin with. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has confirmed that 127 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we can proceed with the vote. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, they did not vote 42 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 39 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 101, 29 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, no 48 votes, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, they did not vote 44 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 99, they did not vote 33 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 2, versus 99, they did not vote 44, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 99, two abstentions, 29 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 98, two abstentions, they did not vote 32, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 101, two abstentions, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 100, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 32, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 97, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 33, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, in general. For 130, they did not vote 22 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. For 126, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in general. For 128, against one, they did not vote 23, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE VETERINARY LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft veterinary law to the vote, in principle. For 106, against 66, it didn't vote 45... I need technical services to check to see if there's anything wrong with the monitor. Take my deepest apologies. Be kind enough to check the quorum, see if all this works now. We're not gonna have a suspicious vote. Let's see if everything works. Please insert identification cards into MPs. I find there's a voting quorum. Once again, since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft veterinary law to the vote, in principle. For 107, against 71, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, out of 219 MPs. It doesn't occur to me to do anything without being suspicious. It clearly shows that 219 MPs voted. The draft veterinary law is not accepted in principle. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on VETERINARY AGENCY, PHYTOSANITARY AND SANITARY LABORATORY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the original of this law has not passed. Why should we now vote on agencies that come out of a law that hasn't passed? Explain to me the purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-29-0.u20434	Of course, we're counting on it, but since they're separate points, in the voting day, I have to put it to a vote, and the MPs, thank you for that, are aware of this fact, so I assume they'll respect the fact that the original law, from which this one stands, is not voted and most normal to vote against. Once again, I put to the vote the draft law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratory, in principle. For 95, against 11, two abstentions, it was not 116, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the bill in principle. I thank you for your reasonableness during this vote. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Bosko Ristic, in session29. September2005. At 1:15 p.m., he indicated that an injured member was 119. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 72, against 118, it did not vote 13, out of 203 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you for your responsibilities and pleasant.
