ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20227	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milka Silajev, Ksenija Milivojevic and Velimir Stanojevic. We move on to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME INDIVIDENTS OF THE CRIME ACTIVITIES AND THE CRIMINAL PROTECTION OF MILINE LJORĐE MAMULA, together with Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Milos Aligrudić, together with Goran Rakovic and Petar Cvetković, Zoran Krasić, Petar Jojić, Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Koprivica and Vitomir Plužarić, together with the government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the proposing representative withdrew the government's amendment to Article 168. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20228	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as I said, are extremely important matters, so I would like to ask your attention. First, I must say that I do not understand why this amendment was not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Minister of Justice, Mr Stojkovic. It's really a shame we didn't get the government's written explanation the way we were supposed to. It would be interesting to see what reason they might point out for not accepting this amendment. What's fundamental in criminal law is the assumption of innocence, the presummation of innocence, it's been guaranteed for many years and centuries for all who are suspected of committing certain crimes. The only court on the planet that doesn't respect the presummation of innocence is the infamous Hague tribunal. Only in The Hague the tribunal proves its innocence; only there is he who goes not innocent, but guilty until he proves otherwise. Of course, that shouldn't be the principle that we would accept. It is not something that can be called European principles. It's not something that will bring us closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, NATO pact or anything else. I think the basic thing is to guarantee innocence to whoever's at the beginning of that criminal trial. So, in Article 1 of the amendment, Mr. Zoran Krasic suggested that the words "under minors' crimes" be replaced by the words "by minors being prosecuted". So, you can't talk about minors' crimes, because even minors are subject to the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings, and even in a formal sense, they don't have the property of the defendant. So it's really something that's a very serious mistake, and you can't already be in the first member of the law, which should be applied to minors -- so these are the ones that have to be even more tactful than those who are suspected to be perpetrators of certain crimes. The state has to show them even greater concern, and it is simply amazing that you are already saying in Article 1 of the Law that they are perpetrators of criminal acts. Furthermore, if they are perpetrators of crimes, then here you do not need further provisions on the procedure or anything else. It is necessary to delete everything further, only to lay down provisions on possible punishment, because if someone has committed a crime, and if it is found in a pre-criminal procedure or in a non-disclosure procedure, then there is no need. The only thing that further logically follows is that the provisions on the measurement of penalties follow Article 2. So to see how someone who has already been found guilty of a crime will be punished. I repeat once again, I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted. It's a matter of purely legal matter, of precision, of determining the presumption of innocence, which must also apply to minors. I also call on the minister, if the minister does not accept, then all other MPs will try to remember the amendment and vote in favour in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20229	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that the needs of criminal law were to form special criminal legislation when it comes to minors, both procedurally and materially. In relation to Article 1, to which Zoran Krasic has tabled this amendment, we believe that the right definition of this member is that it is not possible in any case to accept the view that a minor is pre-declared by a criminal offence. That's unacceptable. Mr. Sarovic said that the position and principle of presummation of innocence were accepted in our right. Therefore, in the first article, we cannot immediately categorize them in relation to minors as if they were wronged by a judicial decision. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment because, compared to the proposed solution for minors, they cannot be treated or treated for criminal offences. Therefore, the right definition is, according to minors against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, criminal prosecution is being conducted, and in no case in advance in this proposal of the law to give the definition of equalification that it is a criminal offence, especially when it comes to the application of procedural actions. The SRS believes it is necessary to pass a law relating to minors, but it is segregated from criminal and legal proceedings in Serbia in relation to procedural and material law. According to minors, appropriate democratic measures must be taken, which means that the law must be human to minors. What democracy is in one country, ladies and gentlemen, it is seen as its code of criminal procedure. Since we now have new legislation to regulate the area and material provisions of criminal law against minors, in which case we have a new law to regulate the area and the material provisions of criminal law against minors. We feel that we cannot accept it, and we will not accept the view that a minor should be treated from the first moment that he is the perpetrator of the crime. It can be considered either a suspect or a person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. The unsub is a difficult category and cannot be accepted, until he is not the perpetrator until a judicial ruling is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20231	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20232	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course the laws should be clear, brief, with a clear definition of each attitude. Of course, it is understood that the law should not be misused, and I suppose the Ministry of Justice felt that such a legal solution would be in Article 1. The proposal for this law shall be sufficient for citizens who are reasonably or unjustly suspected of having been executed, and in particular when it comes to minors, certain criminal offences and to act in accordance with the law, in accordance with some ethical principles, etc. But the minister must know that he is making this law not for this government and not for his ministry, but for some new government, a new ministry, and if God says it is for the Radical Government and the Radical Minister. God forbid another bulldozer of revolution should happen, so that Batic, for example, who has maximum abuse of all laws, has reversed the norms, interpreted them as he wanted, and the result was 13,000 people in prison for not two months. A result that wasn't recorded in the world's justice system. Even Pinochet took a few years to reach the figure Batic achieved in two months. I therefore believe that the minister would have to adopt this amendment for the simple reason that no one is guilty until it is legally proven guilty. That, presummation of innocence is understood, so it must be written, Minister. It can't be understood. God forbid someone comes again to interpret the laws as was interpreted by Vladan Batic, the great minister. Looking at all these laws, since I've already come out for a pay phone, I notice that the minister in his ministry, in his portfolio, does not finish one very important job, prisons will be tight enough to see all those who have roving and doing business with Serbia for the past five years. Expansion of prison means nothing to you, making new prisons. You make jails, you don't give money for schools, you don't go to school. You're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20233	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 14th Amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20234	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 14 regulates special obligations that can be expressed to minors, and point 2) provides that it is possible to say that, in the context of its own possibilities, compensation for the damage they have caused, and of course applies to minors. The amendment we have submitted is intended to delete words -- within its own capabilities, because it is illogical that in such a provision, where obligations are listed, the conditions under which these obligations can be expressed. Article 12 of this proposal lays down the choices of educational measures and provides for the conditions under which the court decides what measure it will determine, or which obligation it will make. I think the legal and technical arrangements of the law are also as essential as essential and it is too important that the conditions under which the obligations are expressed are in the list of obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20235	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20236	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Articles 15, 16 and 17 have been tabled with identical amendments, where, for example, increased supervision in another family or enhanced supervision by parents, adoptors or guardians are proposed to increase six months to two years to one year to three years. It was an old law solution and no one had any objections to that solution. It's a normal tendency of one law to have lighter solutions. However, we are witnessing that crime, especially juvenile crime, is on the rise and that it is still necessary to keep this old solution because there are crimes of different weights and very serious crimes. Three years is not a long time, and there's no reason not to keep this range. I will not comment on the other members to whom the same amendment applies with the same essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20237	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20238	Ladies and gentlemen, one brief explanation. This is about Article 23, which regulates references to a special facility for treatment and training. The position of the 3rd member provides: "If the educational measure is given on the basis of the position of the 1st member, a minor in a special facility for treatment and training may remain for a maximum of three years... "The proposal in the amendment is that instead of "three years" it stands "as long as it takes to treat and train." It is an absolutely logical and necessary amendment, because it cannot be predetermined that three years is a period within which treatment can be conducted. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 31st Amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MPs Goran Rakovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Both MPs Goran Rakovic and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Rakovic and Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 41st Amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20239	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to a proposal for a project under Article 57, criminal proceedings against minors are being initiated for all crimes only at the request of a public prosecutor for minors, who has acquired special knowledge in the area of child rights and the crimes of young people. Paragraph 2 states: "For criminal offences prosecuted under a proposal or a private suit, the procedure may be initiated if the injured has put forward a proposal to initiate the procedure to the competent public prosecutor for minors within the time limit provided for in Article 53. The Code of Criminal Procedure." Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that this member be redecorated, as this will thus improve the text of the law. In Article 57(3), the provisions should be amended in such a way as to read: "If a public prosecutor for minors does not submit a request to initiate proceedings against a minor, he will inform of this within eight days of the injured, who cannot take over criminal prosecution, but has the right to request, within eight days of the date of receipt of the notice, that the minors may decide to initiate the proceedings." Why? National MP Zoran Krasic believes, and I think it is right, that it is necessary and necessary to be asked and damaged, when it comes to the application of the educational measure or if it is applied to a minor in criminal acts. Article 3 should add Article 4 which reads: "If the injured has not been notified that the juvenile public prosecutor has not filed a request to initiate proceedings against the minor, then within three months of the date of the rejection of the criminal application or the motion for prosecution, the injured may request that the majority of minors decide to initiate the proceedings". So, in no case should the damaged be excluded. And he should ask himself, and he should follow the procedure and he should participate in it in such an indirect manner. As you can see, we don't suggest that the damaged person can initiate a criminal procedure, but he has the right to follow it, to be interested in what it is and what it is to do, which powers should be given to the damaged person if the public prosecutor doesn't take any action. In this case, the damaged person has the right to address the majority for minors, in particular the grander district court, since the jurisdiction of minors now goes to the jurisdiction of the district court, i.e. the competent court for minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20240	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20241	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 58 provides that a criminal offence for which a sentence of five years or a fine may be imposed by a public prosecutor for minors may decide not to apply for a criminal offence if the circumstances and the case, the personal life of the perpetrator of a criminal offence, indicate that it is not all-consuming to conduct a criminal procedure. Our amendment refers to the fact that this article applies only to criminal acts up to three years, since it is not natural to be such an enormously high range and to give the prosecutor the opportunity to decide for such serious crimes not to conduct a criminal procedure. An earlier solution is not the rule of problems, and I think it should stay. This is where the legal and technical editorial of this member was carried out. It is predicted that instead of this deputy, "he" should be referred to as "public prosecutor". That's less important, but I think this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20242	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62 of Section 3 which I have proposed to make certain amendments. Namely, for the application of the educational order referred to in Article 7(1) and point (3) of the Law proposal, consent is also necessary, except for the order consisting in alignment with the damaged and at all some kind of reconciliation between the damaged and minors. The approval of the damaged person is also required when a juvenile is ordered to perform without compensation work in appropriate humanitarian and similar organisations. This is a team too necessary, because it's known that in our country and some so-called. NGOs, whose activity is purely political or propaganda, and sometimes spy organisations, try to present themselves as exclusively humanitarian organisations. That's why I think it's necessary for the disabled to participate here and that his consent is sought, because as I said, it may happen to us that our minors are involved in some organisations or institutions that could not at all be eligible for minors to be there and to trust someone to retrain them or to raise them. That is why we believe that this provision that is proposed is acceptable, which will exclude any possible error in humanitarian organisations. If it were through the Red Cross humanitarian organization, yes, but what about some other humanitarian organizations, which are so-called. humanitarian organisations, and they deal with various illegal activities, various intermediations and many things that are not in line with our positive legislation. That's why I think this amendment may be accepted by the minister, if that's the assessment. And if not, only if it guarantees that any possibility is excluded that other than the real humanitarian organisations will not enter a minor into an organization that can act negatively on him. I said it would be an acceptable red cross for me. Anything else that may have negative consequences for the development and mental life of minors, especially according to its property and age, should be excluded and I believe this should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20244	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 62 consists of proposing that the final position of this member be deleted, and that position reads: "If a minor has fully compensated for the damage caused by the criminal act, the injured shall not have the right to pursue his property-legal claim, and if the damage is compensated in part, the damaged may claim his property-law in a lawsuit". All of this is regulated by other regulations, and it's completely excessive to stand in this law. If a minor has compensated for damages, he of course cannot succeed and fulfill his request. If he partially compensated, if he sues in a lawsuit he'll make his claim, no one can forbid him. And even if this member were forbidden to initiate the procedure then, he could do it. It is quite logical that this attitude of this member is deleted, because other regulations fully and in a better way regulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20246	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 68th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 68(1), I have suggested that certain amendments be made. According to Article 68(1), a minor is proposed to be held in custody separately from a minor. Exceptionally, a juvenile judge can determine that a minor is in custody along with a minor, who would not be adversely affected by him, otherwise the loneliness of a minor would last longer and would leave the adverse consequences of the development of his personality. Why do I feel it is necessary to accept this amendment, which will improve the text of this law? Ladies and gentlemen, so far, practice and experience have shown that a juvenile in custody is difficult to endure loneliness, and that his absolute isolation is practically reduced to some kind of extra punishment, because otherwise being put in solitary is a kind of sanctions on the person who is deprived of liberty, and that is unacceptable when it comes to minors and when he is in custody. This is also forbidden by international documents ratified by our country. The text of the proposal unnecessarily leaves the possibility of a minor being in custody together with a younger minor, while on the other hand, criteria are not at all established where possible, leaving no possibility for a minor to ever be in custody with a minor. This is not justified, because sometimes there is a possibility that a juvenile in custody will be with a minor, who would not only have a harmful effect on him, but could have a positive impact on him in some circumstances. For example, some people in custody are otherwise people outside the criminal environment, as is the case with traffic delicacies and work done out of failure. This was the reason why I submitted this amendment, because I believe that the loneliness and imprisonment of minors would not be acceptable at the moment when, in parallel law, both in the EU and in this case, such a provision is not applied. Since it's a minor, and I said when it's a criminal offence or when it comes to people who have had a car accident, there are honest and honorable people on that basis who could even positively act on a minor not to commit crimes further. We propose, according to the SRS, that we respect both international documents and parallel law, that we also rely not only on the declaration once, but also on the practice of applying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20248	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20249	We didn't accept this amendment because we thought it was a style formulation. The question arises whether it's more specific or not. This amendment is the same as the one in the law, it has that supplement, and longer loneliness could have adverse consequences. In view of this, the Government accepts this amendment, because I think it's a formula that might be more precise, or it draws attention to the fact that there may be some adverse consequences if this is not respected. For these reasons, the Government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20250	I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Justice Committee must be declared, but the government has accepted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Bosko Ristic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 82nd amendment in the same text. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment to delete article 82. The applicant and I believe that, under the general rules against any court decision taken in the course of proceedings against minors, an application for the protection of legality may be filed if it is in a decision or procedure preceded by a broken law. There is no reason to repeat norms and predict in the same law in two separate chapters and in two special categories of criminal sanctions and criminal offences. There is no reason to allow the application for the protection of legality and the review of the penalties or educational measures imposed. This is an excess in the law, and we believe that this is understood under the general rules, that it can be filed under the Constitution and under the law for the protection of legality. Therefore, we believe that this amendment is correct, that it is in place and that a member should be deleted because it burdens in two places the same norm. It is absolutely unnecessary and thus create a delusion in the application of material rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20252	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 100th Amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above article 101 and article 101, with correction, was filed by MP George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 115, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 146 of the amendment was filed by Ambassador George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the title of Part Three of the Bill, the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment, the MPs Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajovic jointly submitted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 150 reads: "When a full-time person is tried for a crime that is damaged by a minor, an investigative judge, the president of a senior and a public prosecutor must have knowledge of the rights of the child and the protection of minors". This amendment is essentially the same and contains everything contained in Article 150 of the existing bill, but is shorter and clearer. This member of the bill takes over the entire side. I think it's more logical and natural for the legal norm to be clearer and shorter and it will be more acceptable for those who interpret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20254	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 150. In Article 150, point 1 of the word "full-time perpetrators of the following crimes" is replaced by the words "defended for the next crimes". In Article 150(2), the words "the full-time perpetrators of other crimes" are replaced by the words "defended for other crimes". The term "criminal perpetrator" cannot be used in the provisions relating to criminal proceedings. The procedure applies to the presumption of innocence and, instead of the term "declarator", only the corresponding procedural term can be used, and in this case, the accused. There is no need to lead to criminal acts prescribed by the Criminal Code, since criminal acts can be prescribed by other laws that fall within the so-called law. criminal legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20256	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20257	Ladies and gentlemen, the formulation of the proposed criminal code, which refers to Article 150 in relation to attitude 1 and attitude 2, is extremely problematic. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic, in front of the SRS, has tabled this amendment and this is a good amendment. This amendment will in any way remove the qualification proposed by law, as the qualification proposed does not correspond to the professional application of this law. As Vitomir Plužarevic explained, the term "criminal perpetrator" when it comes to minors cannot be used in the provisions relating to criminal proceedings. What Vitomir Plužarevic said and we adopted the category of presummation of innocence. We can't pre-qualify and declare that a minor is a perpetrator of a crime when there's no court ruling. It should also not be called into question that the criminal offences prescribed by the Criminal Code, since crimes can be prescribed by other laws, such as the secondary legislation that is still valid with us and in the laws remains as secondary legislation, although the previous law, which has been spoken of, has tried to codify, to unite all criminal sanctions into one law, which will be easier to apply and in accordance with international norms and EU countries, such as the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is a good amendment. I believe he was well-defined and defined by the MP of the SRS Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20258	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment is Ambassador Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 152 of the amendment is Ambassador George Mamula. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 153rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 157th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 163 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides for Article 165 to add Article 2 which reads: "The provisions of this law that exercise certain procedural functions condition the knowledge of the rights of the child and the criminal protection of minors enter into force on 1 January 2006." Without such a provision, this law in certain parts will be completely inapplicable because certain processes and entities will not qualify to perform certain procedural actions. I think this member is so logical that I don't need to further explain him and I'm very sorry that the minister isn't here to hear an explanation why this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20260	On Article 167 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP George Mamula. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 167a be added after article 167a. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 168th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CRIMINAL SANCTIONS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Petar Cvetkovic, Jovan Palalić, Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Koprivica, Momir Marković, Milan Stevović, as well as the amendment of the Government. Reports of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee have been received. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the proposing representative withdrew the government's amendment to Article 282. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I insisted that Minister Stojkovic come to an end to this previous law for one simple reason. It said that the law came into force on 1 January 2005, and I wanted to give the minister a calendar, though, with the image of the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, but the amendment was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and it seems to me that this amendment is Article 2. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Mr. Zoran Krasic says: "The purpose of carrying out criminal sanctions is to train the perpetrator of a crime, humane conduct, respect for his personality and dignity to take care of his own needs, in accordance with the law and social norms." Article 2 The bill says - the purpose of the execution of sanctions is to implement judicial and enforcement decisions, to protect society from criminal acts and to isolate the perpetrators from the social environment in order to treat, train and so on. In every legal project, even in this one, we have to make sure that we don't drop a man out of all of this, because in addition to serving a certain time sentence that the court has ordered him to do, he has to go back to society the next day and he has to live a normal life. A team before there is the possibility that due to a moment of negligence, the perpetrator of the crime, so anyone driving a car, is aware that at any moment he can earn a year in prison, and besides, we have witnessed that in the last five years there have been such drastic violations of human rights and freedom that it is amazing. I therefore believe that the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic on behalf of the SRS should be adopted and installed in this legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20262	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2. The draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions states: "The purpose of the execution of sanctions is to enforce judicial and enforcement decisions, to protect society from criminal acts and to single out the perpetrators of social crimes in order to treat, safeguard and train for independent custody of their needs after the execution of sanctions". Ladies and gentlemen, MP Zoran Krasic has seen what the SRS parliamentary group agrees with, that it is not the right time and the right to determine that the purpose of the execution of sanctions is to enforce judicial decisions. We believe that the applicant of the amendment, Mr. Zoran Krasic, also believes that more precisely in the law, it is necessary to provide that the purpose of the execution of criminal sanctions is to train the perpetrator of the crime, humane treatment, respect for his personality and dignity to take care of his own needs, in accordance with law and social norms. The amendment is good. I suggest that the Assembly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20264	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 12, paragraph 1, after the word "questionation and correction" is added, what I propose is to be, "a reference to a educational and special institution". It's what lived, will live and will be in practice more applied and more acceptable. Therefore, I would disagree and disagree with this article's proposal and we therefore propose an improvement of the text. It is certain that this formulation, proposed by this amendment, is good and will be more effective in application.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20266	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 13 of the title - Types of the Institute, the bill provides for six institutions. There are the following types of institutions in the administration: "A 1st Penal Bar and county penitentiary for the execution of a prison sentence; 2nd Penitentiary for women for the execution of prison sentences and juvenile prison sentences; 3rd Jurisdictional Institute for minors for the execution of juvenile detention; 4th Prison Hospital for the treatment of convicted and detained persons; 5th psychiatric institution for the enforcement of the safety of mandatory psychiatric treatment and care in a medical institution, mandatory treatment of alcoholics and mandatory treatment of drug addicts; and 6th jurisprudence home for the execution of the educational measure of reference to the jurisprudence. " On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Vjerica Radeta asked for its amendment to expand this Article 13 by adding three other institutions: "7th Educational Institution for the implementation of the educational measure, a reference to the educational institution; 8th Special Institution for the implementation of the educational measure, a reference to a social institution; and 9th Institute for the Study of Persons of Convicteds". I don't think there's any reason why these three institutions don't fit into Article 13 and that article 13 with these nine would be absolutely complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20268	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of MPs from the Justice Committee had a chance to tour Belgrade's Central Prison. On this occasion, we have made sure that this institution does not meet the conditions laid down by international acts, and it is obvious that no possibility has been given to the competent ministry, nor certain means, to improve the living conditions and residence of convicted persons in that prison. The situation is no better in county prisons, institutions such as Nis, Mitrovica, Valjevo. The state must, if it wants to be a democratic state, if we want to show ourselves in practice, do more, make it possible by the state to train these institutions and to become such institutions and institutions, because it is a state institution. Through the Justice Department's competent department, to allow funds to improve conditions and build certain spaces which, unfortunately, are few if the capacity of these institutions is seen. I'll remind you, what you know is that 12,000 people were deprived of their freedom in the Sabre action. What do you think it was like for these people in these tapes, or institutions? How many were in one room? What are the conditions? Do people have air in those facilities? France has 70 prison institutions. These institutions are not so overcrowded, up to 100 people in these institutions are staying at a prison sentence. Our facilities are overloaded, they don't meet international standards. At the time of the "Sabbe" action and international organisations had the opportunity to make sure that convicted persons in prisons reside in absolutely unacceptable conditions. I therefore believe that the Ministry of Justice should take appropriate measures, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for these institutions to be offices, equipment and training and thus to show a humane relationship. Through respect for human rights, he's a convict, but he can't stay in solitary two by two, even if there's no ventilation, no window in that room. So, that's what I wanted to remind you, that the government has to launch one strong activity to honor these institutions and to be suited to a convicted person. We believe that this amendment, which has been submitted, should be accepted. He's part of this bill. It remains for the MPs to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20270	Thank you. The word has an MP, Bora Kutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, knowing the matter that has been processed in this bill, I think the proposed amendment is going to improve the terms and conditions of the prison in our legal system. Knowing this matter in the development of punishment, the maintenance of fines and the deprivation of freedom, through systems from Pennsylvania to the Irish progressive classification system, we see that the penalty maintenance system went from retaliation to resociation of convicted persons. That means, in order to avoid the influence of the convicted persons on each other, I think it should be this categorization of criminal and correctional institutions to the greatest extent possible. Therefore, this proposed amendment to Mrs Radete. I think it would be good to classify those convicted as many as possible in as many penitentiary and correctional institutions as possible to carry out educational measures and refer to educational institutions, special institutions for the execution of educational measures and institutions for the examination of persons convicted. We know that prisons serve as a school for new criminals, and in this way it would prevent the influence of multiple returnees on newly convicted persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20272	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20273	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the deprivement of criminal sanctions, so I have proposed that the words "closed and closed" in Article 14(1) be replaced by the words "closedly closed". Mr. Minister, according to the degree of security and the way in which the convicts are treated, the institution of a closed and closed type is not an adequate solution in our terms because there is a type of tightly closed security office everywhere in the world. After all, so far there has been a classification towards the degree of security to open, closed and strictly closed, and that is an ex-member of the 12th current, existing, still existing law. I think this amendment of mine is an adequate solution and you should adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20274	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20275	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 18th century 4th and 5th must be deleted. The provisions of Articles 4 and 5 of this Article, namely, are already contained in Articles 101 and 102 of this Act in their system of the draft law. The proposal therefore needs to be adopted as the right solution is to systematise a legal act, such as the one proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20276	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20277	If there were no confusion over these amendments that we did not explain, most of them were adopted by the adoption of the amendment of another MP, so we did not report, so as not to create a confusion. I have submitted an amendment to Article 58(1). It refers to the delay in the execution of the prison sentence in respect of emergency remedies. "The court which decides on a request to repeat the criminal proceedings filed in favour of the convicted may delay the execution of the prison sentence and the pre-legislability of the solution to allow the re-trial. "We ask that this, conditionally speaking, the disposition of the court be converted into an obligation and we suggest that words - can be postponed, replaced by words - will be postponed. Why? If the law allows the use of an emergency remedy, if convicted at large, if it has initiated an emergency review procedure and a court ruling that has been punished, there is no reason to speed up the procedure of referencing the detention of the prison until the sentence has been brought to an end, because we adhere to that principle that an innocent man should not be put in prison. The saying is that it's better for 1,000 criminals to be free than for an innocent man to be in jail for one day. We're asking to establish this automation, team before nothing gets disturbed. If a convicted person is in custody, that's not the situation. So, for one who has a high degree of security that the perpetrator is a criminal offence, there is a string of arrests: a month's investigative judge, two months older, the Supreme Court for another three months, if the first-degree verdict has not been passed, can be extended further, if the second-degree is waiting, can also be held for a period of time. This situation that we've covered with the amendment doesn't affect the situation where the detention is determined. This applies to those who are defending themselves from freedom, who have been convicted and use an emergency remedy. We have to wait until he decides on an emergency legal means. The measures to prevent possible detention of the prison sentence are: the withdrawal of the travel document and other measures to ensure the presence of the defendant. We suggest that this amendment be adopted, first of all, guided by the principle that an innocent person should not be in prison for one day, and the real proof of that is when all legal means are used. So this is not how it affects or threatens the principle that exists when it comes to detention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20278	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 63rd Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has a People's MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20279	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Milan Stevovic has tabled an amendment to Article 63 of Article 4 and suggested that the words "personal properties" be added after the words "based on" are added. Although the law also foresees personal qualities, we believe it is obvious that in this article, too, more precisely in attitude 4, the words "based on personal properties". This applies to convicts and their classifications, not to personality traits, but to personal properties. In paragraph 4, no reference is made to the classification of convicts on the basis of personal properties, which is proof that this amendment should also be addressed. I think the amendment is in place and it needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20280	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20281	Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 81(2), I have tabled an amendment and suggested that this position be deleted. Why? I don't think it's humane or humane in this time of day to prescribe incarceration, express a disciplinary measure of reference to solitaryity, and thus return to a period of Stalinism, communism and a feudal age.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20282	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20283	We are not satisfied with the conditions that exist in our prisons. Of course, we cannot change these conditions significantly by law, because the economic situation in the country depends on the appearance and minimum standard that should exist in prisons. I can be proud to point out that our country adheres to these minimum standards as much as possible and makes an effort to sort of fix it. With this amendment, we ask that this disciplinary measure, where a person who maintains a prison sentence is set aside in a special cell for some disciplinary offense committed during the maintenance of a prison sentence, that this person is not further punished and banned from receiving a visit. I need to see what it's like in parallel practice. We have this Hague, Cheveningen, the most modern prison in the oldest prison. Those who follow the B92 footage of the status conference that was held yesterday had the opportunity to hear that although the building may be new, the conditions are not very healthy. Since the capacity in Cheveningen cannot be matched with the wishes of Carla del Ponte, how many Serbs would put her in that prison, you are probably aware of the conditions regarding elementary hygiene and residence, so there is no excess humanity there. The highlight of all this is probably what we had the opportunity to hear today, that even without banning someone is forbidden. And our country needs to raise its voice and say -- is it possible to sanction the person, punish, and there is no decision? Now we've had a chance to find out that there's a secret procedure under way, so even the judge who runs the status conference found it appropriate to be a little nervous, when Mr. Seselj asks, "When am I going to get this act that's moving against me? "And he says, "It's not your place to know what we've finished without your knowledge." Make sure that standard doesn't cross ours. It would be dangerous for us to go to prisons and court proceedings to cross these standards that exist in Cheveningen: banning communication, banning visits, banning the possibility of preparing defences, starting with language communication, through elemental technical means and those elemental conditions. And those from NGOs when they criticize you and when they criticize us all, and we criticize the conditions in our prisons, which is room for appearances and other comfort issues should meet some of the conditions that we seek, but we also have to tell them that where there's super comfort, what it's worth when it's trampled on human dignity and elemental human rights, which are still innocent sitting in prison, is still the presummation of innocence here for the third year. There's an indictment, a man gets arrested, then he starts collecting evidence. In some cases, there are abuses, such as "Sabre" and so on, where the baby condemns the newspaper, so it's a miracle if he doesn't get arrested. I think we need to get these Western standards out of our practice. I think those who wrote this bill, especially this member and a few other members concerned with some of the rights of convicted persons who are in custody, simply had nothing new to do with us. We're going to have a so-called. Long distancers, we'll have convicts who are supposed to be in prison for 30-40 years. Those persons who are sentenced to such long-term prison sentences, be assured that after five years of being put in prison, there has been a change in personality structure. That has to be taken care of. It is likely that according to that person who commits a disciplinary offense, and has to go to a cell, in a way we need to be more humane and allow this law, even if it's an hour's visit, to make it easier for that person to endure the sentence he's been sentenced to. As a result, this amendment and several other amendments that go towards formally improving the conditions of maintenance of prison sentences have been tabled and thus allow for any contribution to some order in the prison to be made. The question is, does the female give the results? I didn't want to answer at first when it was the Criminal Law. I'm not in favor of long-term prison sentences. Any penologist to take see what the trend is in Western Europe, where 50 years of research is done, and moreover, the long-term prison sentences haven't produced any results, so be sure, from the point of view of what the purpose of punishment is, but entirely some other measures. We're not in a situation to do this right now. Why? Because you know what Batic said - give us 15 minutes to get the death penalty back, get it over with with "Sablja". Laugh, but that's what happened. Yeah, that's how he represented it here. Although there are three resolutions of the Council of Europe that are being appealed, it demands, it obliges the state to remove the death penalty from its criminal law. Nothing, the Western European Batic here says -- let's get the death penalty back to 15 minutes, so when we slaughter this, then we'll go back to normal and we'll be admitted to the Council of Europe during Saberlje. Look at the way the west is. Benefit west to that part of DOS. Make sure these amendments we propose make it easier for both these people and those people who work in prison. It doesn't really matter when a man is put in solitary, so I don't know how many, etc., no matter how much you've restricted that solitary woman, because you have a situation where that man comes out of solitary after three or four days in a micro environment, some social pathology works, so he goes back into some isolation, and then you basically kill a man. Since I've lived in close proximity to prison for many years, I probably have personal experience, unlike others, but this social pathology that forms there is this microcentre that has its own rules and logic. Now that we're talking about resociation, we need to know that there are people who have one warning, one word, one suggestion can do something, but there are people who only a beating can do something about it. That's funny to you, but that's right. Some just accept the word beating. You can't calm them down differently, on the street, or in prison. That's a fact. Especially when it comes to multiple returnees, who happily go to prison, because he's changed personality, science has described it, it's known. It is known even infallible that the percentage of the population is prone to it. I'm not a representative of Broz's school, but statistics indicate such phenomena. You go to prison, you ask the guards, and they'll tell you infallibly after five months how the new prisoner came in, and who he is, and what he's like, he'll give you the social map of that man, the best possible. Even based on it, they can tell you what kind of environment he lived in, etc. I say to those who are fighting the benefits of an internship - get a job in prison, get a job with the police, and you'll see why an unfettered job is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20284	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment on behalf of the SRS has been submitted exclusively to the human component. The reason is very simple. When all these affairs are turned into criminal charges, then criminal charges into lawsuits, then prison proceedings for all three governments since 2000, and for that Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vojislav Kostunica, many will first feel the meaning of the institute sanctions. I have proposed, led by this idea, an amendment to replace the first word "three" in Article 82, with the word "two." "In fact, since there are two times three, you don't get it wrong. The convicted has the right to stay with the spouse, children and so on once every three months, and I asked that it be once every two months, because imagine Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihailovic, Davinic, Dinkic, not seeing children for three months. It doesn't make sense. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the amendment should be adopted and this time between the two visits of the family reduced from three months to two months. I know that many of the ruling coalition will thank me for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20286	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take advantage of Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment to draw your attention to one non-case, but a scandal that is happening right now, if you were in the opportunity to, or on the internet yesterday, follow the status conference of our party's president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and to see in fact why it is the intensity of the SRS that this humanity, when it comes to the relationship of detainees with the family, improves in this way, as suggested by Mr. Momir Markovic. Ad hoc tribunal founded only to be tried by the Serb people, with that monster from prosecutor Karl del Ponte, does not stop, headed by Teodor Meron, president of the court, Hans Holtius, the court's secretary, in every way possible to abuse detainees, especially the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Not only is it not according to this proposal as given by the minister, and we ask that it be more frequent, possible contact with the family, him as a prisoner and anyone else who is there on the justice of God, but he was repeatedly banned from contact with his wife, with children, with grandchildren, with his legal advisers, with his associates. He wasn't given the opportunity, and I'll remind you of the 2004 period, six months in total isolation, to establish contact with anyone and try to prepare his defense. With another reminder, and that's what you all know, that he's been there for two years and six months, and there's no hint, as we saw today, or just now, when a recording of yesterday's status conference is being broadcast, when his trial is about to begin, but they say, you received, Mr. Seselj, an amended indictment from July, and we want to connect you with Martic, and we won't, total nebulosis and nonsense. On the other hand, the man who went to defend the interests of all of you and your children, and of the states and peoples, is not allowed what is most essential, as he said, the minimum minimum, to photocopy thousands of pages of performances and all of the material he has prepared, in order to get ready to defend himself as best possible. And look what happened. It was broadcast about an hour ago and Dr. Seselj found it nice. With all our objections to the judicial system in Serbia and earlier, especially the one during the DOS-manley government under Batic's batic's stick, with all the criticisms of the current government and Zoran Stojkovic as minister, and the amendments that we have submitted, it is one precedent, and this could not happen here, as Dr Seselj said, that he was unilaterally detained, decided by that criminal Holcius or Teodor Meron, president of the court, to stop any contact in the midst of the talks. So two months of silence, isolation, for no reason whatsoever, no contact with his wife, no contact with his sons, with his grandchildren, with his friends and fellow parties, with legal advisors. And then what happens after that? They say -- well, it's been two months, we move on, you now, Mr. Seselj, you can take a few days before that brilliant testimony in the case of Slobodan Milosevic to continue to communicate with your associates and family members. Eated a donkey wolf. Here are lawyers, lawyers, such as Mr. Jojic and Mr. Koprivica, Mr. Jojic, who is, in fact, the idea creator of one criminal code, which we are talking about, because from the position of the federal minister of justice, he made the greatest skeleton of that codification, but then the senseless NATO bombing, aggression and your mob five-octobaric coup prevented Mr. Jojic from proposing this codified code. What's the point, there isn't, what you yourself know, or you who are still unfaithful to Tom, no justice or any legal order, that's what this is about. Whatever monster of law, I don't know what kind of model to apply, from this example, and this is spoken of by a member of our justice system, Article 82, in the case of Dr. Seselj in The Hague tribunal, it's impossible to push them out of justice in a legally regulated way, because it's a naked force. It's been two months and they say, "Now turn on and make a phone call." Either Professor Seselj violated the rules of that court, or a tribunal or someone wronged himself and should be charged against him, against these criminals, the president of the court and the secretary of the court, which, in such a way, abuses the official position, according to fellow lawyers, treats one prisoner. That is why it is up to you and your conscience, that at least Serbia's judiciary would be better arranged, to accept in the day to vote this amendment, which he submitted to his 82nd colleague, Momir Markovic, and himself for a time in the justice of God, man is neither guilty nor due, found by that crazy action of "Sabre" when they were gathering people off the street, pointing their finger at political insinuators. And any of you, for political reasons, above all, because crime will only be covered by large fish, be sure, by the arrival of radicals to power, but anyone who for political reasons was sentenced one day, as was the case with Mr. Seselj on several occasions in Serbia, with Mr. Tom Nikolic and several Serbian radicals, or with Dr. Seselj's imprisonment in The Hague tribunal, would know what it looks like and that it is very important not only for humanity to do, but to stick to some better codes and principles, to accept this amendment from his colleague, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20288	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20289	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you can see, Serbian radicals are seeking, insisting and wanting to be humanely treated by prisoners and detainees in our country. In this way, we can join international standards, and with parallel law, we can move in step. However, in previous practice and experience, you have seen and in the previous period something has not happened to us. The humanization of these institutions must be carried out. The relationship with convicts and detainees must be different from past times. What's important, and I'd like to remind you, I believe some colleagues know, and whoever doesn't know, I'll remind him that there's a provision in France that makes public prosecutors and judges go to jail to stay for 30 days to figure out what prison means and what punishment means. I find that justified. Why? Better a judge who judges to decide and make fairer decisions, at least compared to the level of criminal justice. Ms. National MP Natasa Jovanovic just pointed out a truly incomprehensible fact, in the EU today, in the European state of the Netherlands, that Professor Vojislav Seselj is waiting two years and six months for trial. What's the matter? You know the indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj has been filed in Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is prescribed in Anglo-Saxon law that it must be tried within a certain period and at a certain time. These EU standards for Professor Vojislav Seselj, because he is a Serb, do not apply. He's been waiting for the trial for years, and I remind you again that in Angolan law it's forbidden and there's a fair and timely trial to be conducted. The question is when European legislation will be able to be applied to us and whether it will apply equally to citizens of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro or whether it will apply to their citizens only. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to members 81 and 82. The SRS has tabled amendments because it believes that humanisation needs to be done, humanely treated, even though it is a convict and detainee. Article 81 suggests that the visit should take as short as possible. Item 2: "At the time of maintenance of the disciplinary measure of solitary reference, there is no right to visit. "Why? Is that a man? How can we behave like this, at least at the moment when we join the EU, when we say we are becoming a democratic state. This shows that we are not a democratic state, we are a feudal state. I don't know who came up with the idea of today prescribing this incarceration. In Article 82, a convicted person has the right to stay with his spouse, children, or other close - face for three hours in a separate room once every three months. When I say in relation to Article 81, what do you mean to imprison a sick man, you think someone about him in the institution will take care of himself, especially if he's an older man and a sick man, if he has no contact with his family, who has to provide him with adequate, adequate and timely help and care, an additional one, which prisons possess. This is really insane and unacceptable to treat prisoners and detainees like this. These are people, the state passed the law, imposed sanctions, but they need to be treated human and human. What MP Zoran Krasic mentioned in relation to prison staff and guards had to be predicted that these people who are living in very difficult conditions and working, the benefits of a work experience, were obliged to do so. Benefied work experience for these people is necessary because they have the right to do so, work in difficult conditions and, therefore, we believe that the amendments of the SRS are acceptable, that they are good and should be accepted, because they thus show that we are becoming a democratic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20290	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20291	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions by proposing that Article 83 be deleted. This member, who I have suggested to delete, says: "During the maintenance of the disciplinary measure of solitary reference, there is no right to stay in a separate room." The proposed text of the law is indeed an extremely humiliating attitude towards the convict, and they are even denied the right to visit, or right to a special room. So, the man was convicted, he was sentenced, disciplined, denied his right to visit, you isolated him completely, the man was sentenced to death. He doesn't need another death sentence. I really don't understand what the proposer was doing to propose this member of the law, humiliating and insulting the dignity and fundamental right of a man to visit. I think the amendment is justified, so I suggest you adopt it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20292	Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is also about the status of prisoners and not only humanity towards those who are just about to be behind prison bars, and are in close contact with the top of the state government, these Serbian tycoons against whom the SRS will be fought. You have seen that under a parole and a great campaign for power without corruption, the SRS has won a landslide victory in the municipality of Kula and that the citizens of Kula are asking us to make a hard deal against corruption, crime, we will do so in the future. If a judicial verdict is sentenced to a certain prison sentence and if it is in the status of this prisoner in the office, in the Department of the Incarcerated Guy with Special Security, there is no reason to have a different treatment for him, but according to this so-called. inmates who are not under special supervision and who are not given the opportunity to receive the package several times or twice during the month. If in prison and under such security, therefore, for those who are tried for serious crimes, everything is done in a way that can't, as Cedomir Jovanovic did, get in and out of prison whenever he wants, bring in unauthorized things, get out of prison, or even one prisoner, or even one prisoner, just walks out and says, crawled through that package hatch, or exit, then there's no fear of adopting an amendment that has been filed by a colleague, Radet. If they are going to continue to be like this, if such failures are going to happen, and be sure, as Serbian radicals have established them in particular two weeks ago, they have visited all prison institutions in Belgrade, and counterparts Krasic, Jojic and Markovic have concluded that indeed a bird could not fly there that one of the Serbian radicals is the warden of the prison, and this just happened after that affair, the exit of a prisoner. We see no reason not to deliver a package of certain weights, with those supplies and with the content that is allowed for the prisoner, and we have listed, or co-worker Radeta in one broad explanation of why it is necessary. So, because it is very important to point out, and this is seen by fellow Serbian Radicals and others, that in many of these prisons is not adequate food for convicts and prisoners, and this is indeed known long ago and it has been written in public, it is necessary to allocate larger funds, etc. There are also persons who are sentenced to the longest possible term of prison sentences in some middle life, therefore, by being in prison and suffering before God, but also by justice and by law for those acts that have been done, they come at a time when they need medications, something else without which they cannot function. We believe that the minister and parliamentary majority in the voting day should accept the amendment of Serbian radicals and allow these prisoners, under special security and in those prisons where these prisoners are high-ranking or risk, to receive the package twice a month, and they will serve the prison sentence they received for the work. Again, I must connect, with the fact that there is a completely reverse case here, because an innocent man, the president of Serbian Radicals and a great hero of the Serbian people, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, today for two years and six months a prisoner of the anti-Serbian UN tribunal, and he is not given the possibility to have a single package, which he spoke of in the re-emission of this status conference, you could now follow, forward to the team of his legal experts and advisers, colleagues Krasic, Jojic, Markovic, Sarovic and others who are on the defence team of Dr Vojislav Seselj. And why is that? Because the secretary of the court, imagine this insolence, said there was no possibility that as a prisoner in The Hague tribunal, he was photocopying these thousands of sides of the material, and he wanted Serbian radicals, experts from the defence team yes, and he was still so cynical and bold that Hans Holtius said -- so you take indigo paper, so when you write plant an indigo, you'll have a copy for you or for the associates you're sending it to. He throws one of his colleagues that he's an idiot, and I don't have the right word to say about that kind of behavior that violates all the basic human and legal norms, so here's what happens in our president's case. These prisoners and people who certainly would have wanted, they did some crime and they suffer for it, but above all, people who have to live behind bars are supposed to have the right to receive instead of a single package of contents that allows them to improve these conditions in which they are there. Of course, we're principled people and we wouldn't change this, this member of the law, and when all these Serbian tycoons who are now rich in the torment of the people, and media moguls and various frauds and bank owners, the power mafia, when they're all behind bars, remain that for them, but I believe that given the amount of money they stole from Serbian citizens and continue to rob and steal, the quality of their packages will be better than the quality of the packages of these ordinary prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20294	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only a man who has never been jailed in a prison kitchen or a prison menu can suggest such an attitude in Article 84. So, I suggest that if there's any possibility that the minister with the entire ministry will go on a diet for a week, it won't take more, in the CZ, so let's see if the packages are desired. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been given the opportunity to feed on this prison sentence for two and a half months. What is food I know very well and if it hadn't been for those packages coming from the families, the question we who were in that room was how many extra pounds would have lost. By the way, I lost 25 pounds in the first month. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, deny people the fundamental right to bring him a package, first of all, those are packages with food, hygiene, laundry, etc., that he accepts that package, once a month, to receive it, regardless of what he says, once a month in the institution or in the closed-type department, in a closed-type office, with special security, this primarily refers to the Central Prison, because there are detainees, the shut-in type department, there are very few persons serving a prison sentence; it's mainly about shorter prison sentences. So far, it's been twice a month that a prisoner or prisoner can get a package. Today we propose once a month. If the minister and his suite, the entire ministry, endures 15 days without a package, I will accept to withdraw this amendment. Until then, I propose, especially to the ruling coalition, that in the day of voting vote on this amendment. Believe me, it's about you, you'll be the users of the good part of this amendment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20296	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm glad you're getting better now. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Petar Cvetkovic tabled an amendment proposing that the title be added above article 86. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Petar Cvetkovic submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic to Article 116. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 131st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 134th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20297	Article 134 refers to the use of traffic means and means of connections by guards when they are trying to catch a person who escaped from prison. That's explained, so to speak, in the People's Dictionary, what this Article 134 regulates, given that the situation is also at stake. Now this member has been slightly changed due to the fact that the same member accepted the amendment of MP Petar Cvetkovic. I asked that the words "deprive freedom" be replaced by the word "capture," because that face is already devoid of freedom. The article refers to a convict who escaped from prison. He is in the status of the person of the deprived freedom which has escaped; now only those who capture him, not that he is once again deprived of freedom, because he did not win freedom by some rightful decision, but himself came to his alleged vision of freedom. I do not object to this part - to use available means of transport and means of communication from third parties, for the simple reason it is necessary. However, the guards of this job can do, possibly, a few hours after it is established that the face has escaped, here in some immediate vicinity. Otherwise, the job of catching and returning that person to a prison sentence for the Ministry of the Interior, and even in the event of an organized insurrection in prison, you know, not the guards, but the police are coming in and interventions. You'll have trouble with these means of communication, Minister. I've done my best, and I've brought four solutions here: the trade court in Belgrade FI-3895/01, correction of the 19th resolution. 09. 2005; 19. 09. 2005, correction of FI-877/2000; 19. 09. 2005 Modification of Decision FI-2389/97; FI-5119/94 and 5669/94 in respect of a ruling under appeal No. 2356/94, of course the date is 19. 09. Minister, this is still in time for a possible appeal. An appeal may be made against this solution to the High Court of Commerce within eight days of the date of its receipt. What's the connection between these solutions and the means of the relationship? Great. It's about Judge of the Trade Court Žanki Radic. She changed these solutions, let her change after 11 years, let her after seven, after five and four years. They refer to Bogoljub Karic. So it's no longer the Karic Brothers system - BK Trade, based in Moscow - Russia, it's AO BK Trade - in English in Russia, you can imagine how that sounds. The lady has changed these solutions, probably due to this obvious action aimed at finding out that the group "Mobtel" is formed, where there is a state, where there is a generous movement of Serbia and Bogoljub Karic, where CDs are paid 200-300,000 euros a month. He never made a decision to cut the price of impulse by 50 percent. That's where you'd show the greatest humanity. The liaison, Mr. Minister, will be through the competent judicial authorities to determine. I'm not saying this because of Bogoljub Karic, he can get it wrong, this is what I'm talking about because of the judge who did this. She will likely, if arrested, have a system of connections, as Karic has connections everywhere - in the Supreme Court, the District Court, municipal courts, registers, banks, insurance companies, secret organizations, media, everywhere Bogoljub Karic has a system of connections. If you're doing something about this, first of all, I'm thinking about criminal proceedings, I don't think we're going to understand each other right now, I'm just warning the government and the ministry of something that's going on -- that there's a solution going on after 11 years to end the sale, allegedly selling the "Mobtel" and that some things in arbitration are prejudged. I'm also telling you, those who represent our country in this arbitration procedure, it seems to me in Geneva, take care, and they need communication, because they're in the same basket as this woman judge. Pay attention to their capture, not a member of 134. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions. Tell that to your colleague Jocic. Look at a little bit of PTT stuff with books, look at a little bit in the register courts, what's written down and where it's listed, and do something to finally do the right math. Because as I said earlier, Karic has never halved the price of impulses, as he has never halved his salary, as he has never halved his wealth, to give "life pulse" to the rest of Serbia. He, a great and successful man, sings to us all. He's congratulating, he's honest, he's honest, he's something of God given, even the name goes to some religion there. Here, the father will declare the saint, etc., all possible shops. He's manipulating, he's got his own TV, he can present everything and turn it around. Please clear first of all from this judge's point of view, is it possible after 11 years to correct a solution based on which something is listed in the court register? In Article 134, I asked for Article 2 to be deleted - a member of the security service can do the same to legitimize the person. Please, just for the record, the guards, the security services, it's called the guards, for all the actions they're taking, and where it comes from using firearms, using bats and other means of coercion, they have to write a report. This position 2, since it's about escape, escape outside the walls of prison, outside the territory where there's this jurisdiction of the prison service, they wouldn't be able to legitimize. It's always done in co-ordinated action with the Ministry of the Interior. I think attitude two is completely, as I say, not only unnecessary but deviating from what might be regulated by this law. A guard can intervene until, say, a convict jumps over the fence and it's known, there's a gun range, etc., in the immediate vicinity, and probably within an hour or two, but already after that, his face has escaped, he's gone home, he's gone to some pillows, he's hidden somewhere else. A guard cannot intervene. They can assist the police in terms of security of space and so the police can intervene. I suggest you accept this amendment, and if not because of this deprivement of freedom that you consider merely a termological difference, because this is actually about catching. The person has already been deprived of his freedom as soon as he's on prison time. It couldn't have just given itself freedom. Please, it couldn't. He escaped, he's not at large. It's on the run. Whoever is on the loose is using all the rights that are given, he can't use any rights. He's on the run. You bring him back, you catch him, and you bring him back. Okay, you don't have to accept the termology, but this intervention in terms of attitude 2 you have to accept, because this is contrary to the Internal Affairs Act. Just so you know. We can't let every uniform get arrested. Whoever didn't pay the phone, the mailman arrested him. He ran away, he says, he won't pay the phone, he's not going. Well, the conductors are now arresting, as I see it, when Dinkic arrests, then you can all arrest, that's not the problem. He arrests everyone alive. You've seen for yourself, Dragic is after less than Erikson gave Labus and you keep your mouth shut, you're in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20298	Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Krasic here gave the right solution and pointed to the problem that arises from the point of view of the existence of positive legislation. I will not repeat what my colleague Krasic said because he gave a good explanation. I'll just say and add that in case a person leaves an unauthorized and unauthorized prison room, internal affairs authorities are investigating an APB. The authority to have a legitimate figure under the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Internal Affairs Act, only members of the internal affairs authority, or police. That's why I think this amendment is good and that it eliminates possible overruns of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20300	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 135th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 136th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled this amendment and suggested that Article 136 paragraph 2 point 5 be deleted. Why? In the provision of Article 2(1), a new measure of restrictions and control of convicts is reintroduced. As a special measure, loneliness is an extremely problematic measure, which was introduced 60 years ago, which lasted until the current law was passed. This measure has in practice proved to be very inefficient and has often been abused, although the decision on loneliness was brought by the minister, and now that it is in the hands of the warden, abuses will be far greater. Loneliness is an extremely difficult measure that causes major consequences, isolation from the social environment does not coincide with the concept of the isolation of convicts. This measure is in direct contrast with all the principles of human rights, so I suggest that the minister assess, assess or accept the government's amendment, or accept the Assembly in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20302	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 140th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I asked for an amendment to be deleted, as the amendment represents a alignment with Article 126 paragraph 2. To make it clear to the citizens who are watching us, Article 140 reads: "A convicted who persists in his conduct, endangers security and poses a serious danger to others convicted, a solution can express the measure of loneliness for a continuous duration of up to three months. "Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, any man you'll put in a cell two by two, usually without daylight, and hold him for three months. How much it will affect his mental sphere. Will that man be resociated the next day when he serves his time? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that the ruling set does not come to mind that they will, as long as in the next parliamentary elections, come down from power and be in a position to feel exactly the sanctions of this law. Don't judge people once before, especially not this drastic punishment, jail time inside. As a result, I believe that a member of 140 needs to be deleted, and in the prison itself, there is a possibility that those who are aggressive will calm down in a certain way. Believe me, I know that. After all, I expect many who are now very nice, the next day when they are arrested, to become aggressive in those conditions. It is precisely because of them from the ruling parties that I propose that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20304	Mr. Krasic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20305	Here we express our principled position on this. Of course, this amendment does not come across sympathy in both the ministry and the prisons, because this measure, by its definition, should be applied very restrictively. "A convicted man who persistently disrupts order, endangers security and poses a serious threat to other convicted... ". So this measure, in its definition, aims to enable some elemental order in a prison facility, for elemental safety and security, both for those who work and for those who support the prison sentence, and there are people who show some of their inclinations in that microcentre. You shouldn't view this measure as something that only exists with us, so nowhere on the globe of the Earth. However, our intervention on this amendment was not in the sense that we were asking to delete this member, in order to disable and make the working conditions and stay in prison difficult. No, just to draw attention that there are other means, starting with the reception service, where a sociological and social scan of convicts, to classification, animation, occupation and other things is done. However, I would now take advantage of the occasion to point out some of the things that are happening in our prisons. First, from managers who ask for money to receive a guard, and then it goes on: security of cell phones for prisoners, looking through their fingers about other benefits and benefits, creating a prison elite between convicted persons, to real cabadies, thugs who manifest their frustrations and experiences over other convicted persons, and up to this widespread phenomenon that anyone who shakes up on a bed needs a Bensedin or some other medicine to calm his anxiety, to those who semi-legally use drugs in prison, and some even engage in a prison store. Are we ready for a new concept? I don't think at this point there's even an elemental desire for a new concept of a prison penalty maintenance system. It's not just a material condition, that's what I have to say. And in prison security services, everything and everything has been drawn to prisons for the past few years, without any more significant control, in terms of similarity to that job, because it's a very specific job, through the educational service, to the increasingly neglected part of the economic sector in our prisons, where, apart from training and animation, it's also given the opportunity for people to end that time to some work that they do. We generally think that loneliness and single women should be thrown out as a disciplinary measure that maintains order, but at the same time we ask that all other services that must inevitably be asked, which are preceded by this, adequately record the situation, form groups, special pavilions, departments, according to some personal preferences and affinities, in order to avoid the situation for the person to suffer prison punishment to torture and abuse others. We usually use it as an example that it is not appropriate for someone who has committed a traffic violation, so he is sentenced to prison for several years, to be in the same place with a person who is a multiple returnee or a person who is in the rank of a serial killer. Or with a face that's supposed to be a junkie, a drug dealer. Then the question really arises whether a resociation was carried out in that facility, that we should not suffer from this man's trauma in prison, even though he was held guilty only because of a traffic violation. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment to draw attention to the different concept of the internal organisation of these institutions for the maintenance of prison sentences. That was the point. Otherwise, we're deeply aware of the fact that there are real psychos who commit crimes, they can't wait to go back to prison. That seems strange to some people, but there are pathological types like that. When they come to prison, they fill their personality, because there's someone and something in a criminal mile and then there's harassment. That is why it is very important for this service of security, retraining, and economic service to establish a basic order in order to make this life there look like a normal life. He can never be normal, we're all aware of that, but even if these people do, that resociation, which we expect in prison, is resociation, not suffering, and why not tell the school of new crime. We have a situation like this. Maybe the public isn't familiar enough with certain situations. Some convicts also have the possibility of spending the weekend out of jail, at home, but you have a situation in that consideration of how to resolute one person, let yourself spend the weekend at home, and she goes away for the weekend and does two crimes. So, where the prison administration showed kindness and wanted to help a man get out of the crisis, he went out for the weekend and did two more crimes, and even when he was arrested, he resisted, when he took over, he attacked the police station. Then there's probably an excuse for staying in the law of this loneliness. I'm just asking that our amendment and our initiative be misunderstood. We wanted to draw attention to you that in other ways, other organizations and other measures can avoid these things, that is to say, to go to a meeting before a problem arises which will cause some indiscipline that disturbs the order and flow of things in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20306	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 140rd and 143rd amendments were submitted by MP Petar Cvetković, Representative of the Proposer and Justice and Administration Committee, who accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, so I can see that these amendments have become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 146th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 146 and suggested that they be deleted in Section 2, point 4, 4 and 5) and paragraphs 3 and 4. For that I give the following explanation why. As with the measure of loneliness, it is amazing that the proposing has decided to impose a three-month limit on the acceptance of the package and limit the availability of money to three months. These measures have not applied to us for many years because they have caused great consequences in practice. By determining the types of institutions – open, semi-opened, closed and strictly closed – it is necessary to clearly determine the more frequent reception of the package and no further punishment is justified by limiting the reception of packages and the availability of money, where it is possible for a convict to be convicted because of a disciplined misdemeanour to a stricter type of prison, i.e. the institution. If punished by these measures, the convict is forced to be in charge of other convicts, to suggest to his parents and relatives that they send packages over other convicts, under the name of those persons who have the right to receive packages, thus paying for a racket, to serve other convicts, to give them some of their packages. This is not in line with human rights, nor does it restrict money and food in prisons to convicts. In practice, it is known that these measures were not positive, nor did they produce any good results, nor did they influence the convicts. On the contrary, they seemed quite the opposite. These solutions are exceeded, retrograde and outdated. For this reason, I believe that this amendment is justified and that it should be accepted, rather than restricting the rights that, by all international standards and by the Constitution, belong to even persons who are convicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20308	Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another member of the law that makes it difficult for prisoners anyway, and 90% of the people in prison to behave in accordance with the rules of conduct, and if there are five or six percent of those who don't respect them, these five or six percent should not make such rigorous and rigorous measures. Article 146 provides, among other things, for a restriction or ban on receiving packages up to three months, 4) to limit or prohibit the availability of money in the office for up to three months and 5) to a single person in free time or throughout the day and night. The restriction on the ban on receiving packages of three months, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on such a menu and on such conditions, is devastating. That's why we think this point should be deleted. The limit on the availability of money for up to three months; you do not know that every prisoner has his own number, under that number the money he has at his disposal is kept, and when he comes into the canteen from that corner of his canteen is taken off as much as he buys. Mostly they buy cigarettes, some hygiene, etc. If you restrict him from buying cigarettes for three months, he will have to borrow from other prisoners who have the opportunity to buy or buy at a far higher price or to be in debt and return the next day. That's why this point needs to be deleted. Third, sending her to solitary in her spare time. This means as soon as those activities stop walking, breakfast, etc. You take a man out and you take him away for 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all prisoners are, above all, human rights and freedoms are already imposed on them by being where they are, and they don't need that time that is extremely psychologically difficult to make even more difficult for them. Therefore, we believe that these three points of Article 146 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20310	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20311	Ladies and gentlemen, again, we are in a position to punish the already punished people specifically. The disciplinary measure of solitary reference is extremely pronounced, only for severe disciplinary offenses and cannot last for more than 15 days. The measures to refer to a solitary woman for up to 30 days can be said for the achievement of disciplinary offenses. That means the warden will be able to impose a 30-day sentence on him because of certain social behavior of detainees, prisoners, convicts. And it comes out today and that same warden, we give it right to one man, he can re-determin a 30-day sentence. So within two and a half months, a man can lie in solitary for two months. There are other ways to sanction these misdemeanors, breachers of order and order in prison units. First of all, it should be understood that the warden of the prison is also a man. You don't have to give an ad hoc rights to a man like this. Therefore, I think this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20312	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 152 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20313	Ladies and gentlemen, the next four members I would not give any explanation for the reasons for the coordination, and it concerns a member who regulates a single woman. Therefore, it is only a matter of harmonisation, and that is why we have asked for the erasure of those members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20314	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's this principle, so someone doesn't want a word. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one wants a word, right, thank you for the 155th amendment, submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Articles 155, the title above Article 156 and Article 156, the title above Article 159, was submitted by amendment MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, so I realize that these three amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 163 by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Articles 170, the title above Article 173 and Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Articles 181, 182, the title above Articles 183 and 183, the title above Articles 186 and 186, the title above Articles 187 and 187, the title above Articles 188 and 188, the title above Articles 189 and Article 189, Articles 190 and 191 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalić. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Cvetković submitted amendments to Article 211, heading Section 1. Chapter 9, to Article 219, heading Section 3. Chapter nine, to Article 229, to Article 230, to Section 5. Chapter 9, Title Chapter 10 and Article 232, to Article 233, to Article 235, to Article 237, to Article 250, to Article 254, to Article 260, to Article 267, to Article 276, to Article 278, with correction, to Article 281. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a final word for this law? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Participants in the Criminal Procedure (specificity) Since there are no amendments on the 10th point of the agenda, so there is no discussion of the amendments, and we will conclude today's session by working on these amendments. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerović, together Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajović, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić and Bozidar Koprivica. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the Amendments, MP Slobodan Vukovic was pulled up on article 6, who submitted to the National MP Slobodan Pajovic, and the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic to Article 43. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20315	In principle, we also pointed to a principled disagreement with this bill. I don't want to repeat that discussion since we started discussing amendments. The government suggests that this law has a name - a bill on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, as if we're passing a law on a programme, the programme is some document, some general act, something that looks like that. We ask that the name be changed and that there be - a bill to protect participants in criminal proceedings. Especially when it comes to the person you've defined as a participant in a criminal case, so you put the suspect, the defendant, the witness of the associate, the witness of the damaged, the expert, the professional face, and then the close face, the protected face. It's all unnecessary. If anyone can't testify, they can't tell the truth, and the witness is obliged to present what he knows. This law is practically unnecessary, and if you already want to vote it, to join countries that also have similar laws, which are supposed to be guaranteed, for the sake of truth and justice, for everyone in the process of some security and some security, here you can see for yourself what it looks like in our direction in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You had an associate witness, a potential one, a man who told you what he had, he wasn't recognised the status of an associate witness, and the question is, what's going on? If there are two or three sides in a procedure, one of them is more protected than the other, it causes some suspicion. So this is about, above all, the amendment that we have submitted for principle reasons, because the program is some paper, some document, and if you want to provide protection, then bring the law on providing protection to the persons participating in the procedure. This is how you can make a mistake. I have to say, we're very different in terms of solutions from this law. We're against this law, but we're conceptually different in the way it's exposed here. Here, the protection programme is interpreted as a set of measures, actions and actions taken by special authorities to protect, while the nomenclature of these actions and measures is known in advance. If you already have to give someone protection in this way, then for each person you provide protection or whatever it is you share, according to the case or to a specific person, then you need to bring a concrete program. You're giving the program a broader meaning here, and if there's anything to talk about the program, we want it to have a narrow and concrete meaning for a person. We discussed this on the Committee 7-8 months ago and then there were amendments, and we explained why we are against this concept and if you want protection, I think there are other means. Today, protection is provided to persons involved in criminal proceedings. Not good. You provide protection to parents of some individuals who are in some way involved in criminal proceedings. Batic called you almost not to give him protection, you withdrew his protection, and he allegedly suffered threats from Kosovo's and Metohija's territory. I ask the question, why does someone enjoy the protection of the police and someone not enjoying the protection of the police? This applies to the police, not to the fire department or to the mailmen. We now have a situation that people because they're high-ranking state officials have protection. You laughed here two months ago when I said that those kids who guard those houses wouldn't have hated that snow, Tadic, Markovic, and put all these in CZ, one could keep them. Em's gonna keep the state quiet, but they won't argue over the media. You're making a circus out of everything. Now everyone's watching everyone. Any forest can contact the police and say, "My life is in danger, please give me a table of protection." Then Jocic or someone else does the assessment, so he gives someone protection, he doesn't give someone, and this one across the street has three degrees of protection, Cobras, shaves, these and them. You know, when he goes down the street, all he does is crash, and the dog wants to kill him, and the cab driver gets hurt. Don't, please, the state is a serious matter. If there is a need to provide protection, let protection be given to those who have been threatened by security, who did not seek protection from the state, but in some ways arranged to protect themselves. You have evidence and statements where Vuk and Danica Draskovic ordered the assassination of Vojislav Seselj. What did you do? Nothing. As soon as Mihajlovic came to power the first thing he took, he hijacked the jeep to remove Vojislav Seselj's last defence dam from the assassins, so that it might be -- here you go, on the plate. And yet you're not returning the jeep, and about the weapons not to talk, you know that. What protection are you talking about, Batic needs someone to protect him from, and from who? Please, you've made a scene, now let's not waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20316	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we will be able to present to you the concept that the SRS would apply or that will apply after the next elections to protect participants in criminal proceedings. But this first member should, i.e. the name of the law should be attacked, because it seems to me that the law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings is lightly called a law, even though you know there will be a thousand programs. If this law provides for a programme that defines all cases, I might be able to accept it, but in further provisions of the law, you say that even after one criminal act, there will be three or four protection programs, or for a few witnesses or for several members of their families, so it can't be said that this is the law on the programme. It would be foolish to say that it's a law on protection programmes, because it will be an unlimited number of protection programmes, for every protection, a program is being created, the law requires it. So the word "program" should be thrown out. So, the law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, and then in one article, to protect them, is a protection programme. And then it'd be all right. Then you name the units that are going to do it and the way, whether it's an identity, whether it's an estimate of its safety, an estimate of the means to live, because that's where we're going to see if it's enough for someone to be your associate witness and to accept that the minimum of existence is provided. So he can't work, he can't make money, he can't feed his family. What that means is a minimum existence, is it a Mercedes in front of a house and a house, or is it a crust of bread a day for someone who allows you to discover a gang, who risks your life and the lives of members of his family. You're preparing us for major crime. It would be good to rush these criminals you already know have robbed the state and it would be good to rush them before the protection program, because in that protection program I've already seen in the selection of witness associates how selectively you approach justice. According to you and the organizer of the gang and the murderer can be a witness associate, although the law does not allow it, but it can be with you. You need him for something. Why do you need a killer? What state cooperates with the killer? None, and he can reveal the formula for making an atomic bomb in five days, he's not working with it, because he killed a man, and you're working with murderers. Go to New Belgrade, there's Zemun, all night long, there's only a gun heard, "Avala 3", "Avala 5", and the police swear to your mother, guarding criminals. He says, he enjoys it up there, and we rain all night long, it's cold, it's rain, it's snow, it's sun, we look after criminals, he says, he's gonna be a witness associate. It's sensitive matter. Other countries have a lot of trouble with this, they've come to the point that even there a protected witness can be killed whenever you want. Says the official secret, the person who says about identity, the person gave away the official secret, and what, gives away the official secret. You had prison wardens and prison guards who were taking people, where a man should be the safest, because you put him away and you guarantee that he would be safe, there would be someone at the door of a cell, or he would be questioned, or he would be bribed, or he would establish any contact with him, and he didn't belong to the staff he was working here, and the judge didn't send him, and the judge didn't approve, and he didn't accept such a visit. I know America is most likely a model for writing this law. Yeah, but that's where a man goes out to buy cigarettes, goes two blocks away, and he's never been seen again by a woman or children, so there's been a estrangement in that country. Where you in this little Serbian to hide a man, who to change his identity, who to provide him with existence, or there will be some asylum in other countries where you will send persons under witness protection. I'm really interested in what extent this crime is when you dared to offer us this before the negotiations, as one of the most urgent laws, here in the Assembly, that we must bring it before the very negotiations of 15 years of entry into the European Union. What kind of crime is that, who are you specifically referring to here? Who's going to be in the next two or three months, who's going to get the status of witness associates under this law to provide him with everything and what's the matter, what's the affair in appearance, what's it about? You're transferring to the Department of Defense for captainship. What's next? What about the hundreds of millions of euros that people are robbing around Serbia today, what will your associates do? All in prison, all because the smallest criminal there has a thousand euros in salary, the largest has 234,000 euros in salary. What do you need the law for? You have laws, but you have no will, no courage to enforce the law. Some of you don't have the will to arrest criminals, cooperate with them, some of you don't have the courage to arrest criminals, and some of you are waiting for elections, and in the elections to arrest a criminal, to show how they care about the state, how they are those who fight against bribery, corruption and crime. In action, gentlemen of the ruling majority, don't strangle us by passing laws anymore. I prefer you to boast at night how many criminals you have arrested than how many laws you have passed in the Serbian Parliament. If we take care of the country, if we become a member of the European Union, here I promise you in a week 500 laws, we'll just raise our hands and drop, don't translate, give us the English text. Don't make us pass 500 laws and we don't know if we're going to be a member of the European Union, don't, because the consequences of passing these laws will be tragic for the state. Some of you won't be involved in politics anymore, so you don't care. Some of you have property, some good jobs, some of you don't even dare go out for this pay phone and they can walk down the street. I ask you whose policy is life, commitment, how will you tomorrow, how will you look into the eyes and the peasants, and the pensioners, and the workers, and the army, and the police, and the teachers, and the unemployed? It's a great risk to exercise power at this difficult time. Ensure better cooperation and that we all take that burden on our backs. Don't think anyone can get out of this unpunished. Don't think you can ruin so many states that we don't run it well after the next election, don't hope at all. Whatever we find, we'll lead the country to good, however you tear it apart. But whoever breaks it can't expect anything good from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20318	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20319	This law, which is probably a condition for someone to be admitted somewhere, says "the conditions and procedures for providing protection and assistance to participants in criminal proceedings and to close persons, which are due to the giving of statements or notices relevant to proving in criminal proceedings, are at risk of life, health, physical integrity, freedom or property". Article 2: "Protection of persons under Article 1 of this Act shall be ensured by the implementation of the Protection Programme". We ask that after the word "this law" the words "supply and ensure the implementation of the protection programme" are added. So this isn't the only measure you're proposing. There are other measures to ensure the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. I'm asking a question, and why don't we give protection to all the persons involved in any action? How many witnesses lie in a lawsuit? You're lawyers, so you know. Set up, prepared a witness to lie in front of the court. Of course, some people come to pull their hair off their heads when they read the verdict and know what happened and what the verdict was. We're asking that the protection program, if you insist on it right now, to be something individual that applies, not to be a set of measures for everyone, something undefined. That's what this is about. "The protection programme is a set of measures foreseen by this law, which are applied to protect life, health, physical integrity, freedom and property of a protected person. "You see for yourself, in the papers it says -- the plague as a witness associate has the possibility of the police taking him to his construction site. Why don't you take someone else to the construction site? Who are we protecting with this law? Is the protection program a condition for hearing the truth or is it a condition for someone to come out and say what someone can like about committing a criminal persecution? Furthermore, I'm not so sure this law is necessary for our country. Organized crime, drugs, human trafficking, major robbery, it's a characteristic of Western Europe and America. You know, in America by definition, the gang is one form of criminal association, criminal association, where bandits almost openly carry weapons and oppose the members of law and order. Since democracy has prevailed in the DOS scenario, etc. We have this situation on our streets. You're a lot of years old, remember, 15-20 years ago, if there was a crime rate like this, which was security, and we didn't have a law on the protection of citizens, and we didn't have any modern criminal laws. But there was no crime. Someone's only tied it to the state's economic situation. That's not true. You have so many states that are below ours on that scale in economic condition, so it's not such a crime rate. What made people crazy and real crime? You saw from Friday to Sunday only in Belgrade seven-eight murders - the son killed his father. Now there's supposed to be some kind of protection. Who is being provided with protection? What is the protection for? We want protection for inefficient courts. What can protect our legal order if the Supreme Court judges reduce the sentence of a harsh criminal? Then explain to me how some criminal policy can be conducted in our country. How can a Supreme Court judge change a drug dealer's verdict? What protection is to be provided? Maybe there was this drug dealer based on some witness who took the risk of saying what happened, etc. He needs protection, too. All right, let's give him protection. And what do we do if the Supreme Court releases that drug dealer, who's gonna protect him? What kind of service can protect him? There's no service to protect him. Because if he was able to end up with the Supreme Court, the District Court, the police, his protected witness, or in this regard, a fellow witness or any of the other participants in the process comes as a "cat cough". Who's going to protect the witches? What kind of an expert would it be if someone in every other criminal case needed to protect him? I think you're too early, you're a little corny, you're living in these American movies; don't look at American movies, that's where they're going, yet, thank God, they shouldn't be. Drag this bill or accept these amendments to make this look like something, that whoever comes after you and has to apply, to apply something normal, not something like this undefined. He says, "He's in the protection program." What does this protection program cover? We don't know. What exactly is it going to be? We don't know. There'll be something off that list of measures. Unnecessarily. If you're building a program, you're building a program for a specific person, but give him the quality of a witness or a participant in a process that is a witness to the event, which, with true claims, is the true fact that the situation that comes through that witness can represent criminal proceedings. You have to take care of it. This is where you lead, let me say, in a pre-criminal and criminal procedure, one part, with one commitment, and then it happens to you that the Supreme Court releases it nicely, lets it go free. Then think about who you set up, who you black-headed life to. A few days ago, I pointed out that case where a man has been in custody for two years, I'm not getting into whether he's guilty or not, whether he's a member of an organized criminal association. But it doesn't make sense that relatives give guarantees for release, they put a mortgage on their entire assets, there's no concrete charge concerning one of his actions, but it has some form of alleged complicity, some help. Several times, a request for detention is considered, denied because one of the defendants is not present. Something doesn't make sense to me. So I'm not getting into this stuff. There's something wrong with that formal-law thing. Is it possible that the defendant of the NN accomplice didn't come to the hearing, where this was considered, that the man could not act as an end to detention? The question is, where do you go with these criminal proceedings being conducted? You can see for yourself, it's so pompously announced "Sabre." An object was reportedly solved in a pre-crisis phase; several other cases were resolved; it was cleared with crime; from 12,000 and something fell to 40 and something, so the question was whether or not it was 40 or something. It's all about what's going on in that Special Court where it's going, which way and what's going to end up. Look, Dusan Mihajlovic made a statement a few days ago that he is sure someone did not organise the murder of Ivan Stambolic. Did you invite Dusan Mihajlovic to explain his statement? You're not. In public, B92, Natasa Kandic and others are spinning as a presumption that someone killed someone or ordered someone's murder. Please, if you continue this way, then in the next phase, we will pass a law on the protection of protectors, witnesses and other participants in the process. Then we'll have an unbroken chain of protectors. Like you're looking for an uninterrupted chain of someone watching the supervised, controllers. If you're going at this pace, we're going to have such a state apparatus that in this country neither the theoretical economy will be able to provide material costs for such a state apparatus, which is born in continuity here. We have bureaucracy like amoebe. Drag this bill, it's better than making even greater damage than the one that already exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20320	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment concerns Article 2. And Article 2 regulates the circle of participants entering the programme of protection of participants in criminal proceedings. In this regard, Article 1 provides that participants in the proceedings are suspected and accused, a witness associate, a witness associate, a damaged and a professional person. The above amendment provides that participants in the criminal proceedings are to be witnessed and damaged. We believe that the circle of faces of this law is determined very broadly and without need, which I will now say something about, and that it is sufficient for this programme of protection for participants in the process to be covered by the witness and damaged. It's going to be like that in 90% of cases anyway, but it's necessary to say it. Namely, it is unnatural and unnecessary for the suspects and the accused to be protected and covered by the protection programme in this procedure. If they are already designated as protected witnesses, then they are covered by the concept of witnesses and covered by this amendment. However, if suspects are also found guilty in criminal proceedings, they are either protected by being held in custody and in prison, and if they are at large, then it is easier crimes, so there is no need for protection, because protection is given to those participants who can provide evidence of criminal offences. So it's completely unnecessary to be covered by the defendant and the suspect. As far as the witness's witness is concerned, he has the property of a witness and is sufficient to say a witness, there's no need to cite an associate witness. When he gets the witness's property, he'll be protected. It has also been stated that experts enjoy protection under this programme, and this is also unnecessary, as it is complex and serious crimes, and it is criminal acts where they will mainly artificially artificial institutions, not artists. I'm sure they don't have to be covered by this program. As far as professionals are concerned, this is also unnecessary, because according to the Criminal Procedure Act, experts do not give testimony in criminal proceedings and do not provide evidence in that sense, and there is no fear that they will be attacked on their lives, bodies, etc., by close persons. Therefore, those persons are merely involved in criminal proceedings as consultants of the investigating judge and there is no need to be covered by this programme. That's why I think it's necessary for the circle of the face to be reduced to the witness and damaged. I propose that this amendment be adopted by my colleague Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20322	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20323	The suspect is a person suspected of committing a crime. The accused is a generic name for all other persons with a higher degree of certainty that they have committed a criminal offence, and this is even subject to criminal charges, a request to conduct an investigation, an indictment or an indictment. In the context of Article 3(1), it is stated that suspects and accused persons covered by the provisions of this law providing protection as participants in criminal proceedings are suspects and accused persons. Here is probably the term suspect and accused given as an announcement of something, so those faces are in that status before they begin any procedure. A moral dilemma is being put in place, whether a schoolmate in committing a crime can be a person who is being provided with protection, and is already being provided protection because he is in prison, if he is an accomplice. They should be like co-executors, masters of crime, common masters of crime, being in the same place, maybe in different rooms, but there they are. Here, according to your direction, under the influence of American films, protection because one would rat on another. Now it counts, the state can take a look at this witness's associate, bless him, give him physical protection, etc., but he's gonna blacken this one, and we're gonna put the head organizer of the criminal association in prison for years and we're gonna close the case. The police are very nice statisticalally closing cases. You catch one, he gets beat up and he admits and what he did and what he didn't do, or he makes a prank, and then he does something in the investigation and he says, they get caught for it like drunk to float, and what we had a situation, as it seems, in the fireman, when in the investigation, the man changed his statement, and apparently some other factors were working. This protection programme is practically offered for three groups of criminal acts, where it shows the importance of these criminal acts to the state. These are - against constitutional arrangements and security, against humanity and other goods protected by international law and organised crime. That's what you prescribed for Article 5 of this bill, and we have an amendment for that. Now this isn't the primary. It is primarily that we already have some experience with some of the procedures that take place in The Hague, and there are protected witnesses and are provided with some protection. We now have a situation for Milan Babic to make a settlement in order to reduce his alleged responsibility, admit what he needs and do not need, and what was required and what was not asked of him. He was given protection, but he's in jail. He was given total protection, but now with that protection he goes on and falsely testifys. He'll always be a false witness. A similar situation with Biljana Plasic is a similar situation with all those with whom a settlement was made in The Hague tribunal. Now you tell me if it's a guarantee to determine the true fact of the situation in order to carry out justice or to mount a court case. Of course, the one who is provided with great protection, he accepts the agreement to participate in the installation of a procedure. In that sense, the suspect and the defendant, as you wrote him here, even if this was a pre-criminal procedure, is always able, if he is offered to give an appropriate statement and offer appropriate protection, to significantly affect the future criminal case against someone in the year n. faces. With that in mind, and I must say, in 2003, the initiative to protect participants in criminal proceedings began. Then there was a speech, not only about Chummet, Djura Mutava and those with such audible nicknames, or this last thing that happened with what was transferred from Greece, Bugsy, when he said everything nice about what he had to say, they say, it's not enough for you to be an associate witness, but you have to answer. You know, if you applied that criterion to Chummet, this law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings wouldn't be necessary. Not only at Chumet's, it's a little bit of a shame that these poetic names and nicknames are used here, when it's attached to a person, but if you want to solve a crime issue, believe me, it's our police, and all those intelligence and security structures, and even the government, it can solve it in a month, so be sure. He can get rid of it in a month. Like a fan's problem at the games. It's a problem that depended on the BIA itself. We didn't need that law at all. If the BIA says no mess, it'll be like the theater. If the BIA says let's warm up a bit to see it there, you'll have a fight, including missiles, and they'll die. If the state has decided to root out crime, I'm telling you that in a month, it can be eradicated completely. You can't make a mistake. First you have to move a few people to the top of the government, then start cleaning up in the police, then cleaning up in the judiciary, then cleaning up in prisons, in the services that work there, in the information agencies. When Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic start whining about breaking BIA, then make sure that their group in BIA is slightly moved aside. As soon as their group's a little stronger, they're quiet, they're not talking about BIA anything. It's all known, it's all parched, it's accurate. Why am I using these examples? To degrade your idea of passing a law like this. By this law, you will not protect anyone, but will only bring into an unpleasant position the man who buys into some promise and what looks like a simple provocation. I would never be a witness to you under this law, just because of this law. I'd be a witness if I'd seen anything, if I'd been able to hear something, etc., it's my civic obligation, but to choose to be a witness and a participant in criminal proceedings because someone would keep me safe, it doesn't even come to my mind for a living head. You know who was guarding who. Zivkovic provided security to Djindjic, the Burgi brothers there, those drug dealers. Now they say -- a third shot, a fourth bullet, who knows what's gonna come up in the end, but very modestly there's a report from that German institute that gives another picture around the gun. The public is shaking, the talk is, the media can live, sinks and tons of pages, all kinds of nonsense is being published, people are going crazy just to distract themselves from those main things. So the matter of crime in a month can be resolved in this country. Then this law is completely unnecessary. If you think that only with these safeguards -- police, security, identity change -- how many people changed the identities that testified in The Hague, then the public found out again behind the changed character, the changed voice. Why? Well, you can see the altered testimony. Ask one of the Serbs who lived in Republika Srpska to tell you what they think of Milan Babic. And those who have always voted for him and supported him will tell you all the worst. Why? Because he was such a witness, a protected witness who falsely testified, let's face it that he himself admitted some nonsense to make his position easier to himself, but apparently he entered the protection program. It's that protection program. We do not want such a protection programme to be in Serbia. If the goal is to find out the truth, then the truth needs to be found out. Those who are believers know that the truth is in Christ. If they're Christians, because they're calling for it, then they're clear enough. Can't be Christ in the service of security. I don't mean to be a philosophical and theological torturer, but the law is unnecessary. If you're bringing it in because the frog saw the horses wet, and she raised her leg, then you're wrong. Don't disrespect us. In a month, the issue of crime can be resolved, if there is will and willingness to apply laws. If there is no will to apply the laws, we can stand here every day by 50 laws and, after every law, realize an increase in our country's crime rate. That's the difference between you and me. Apply what already exists and you will be at peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20324	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20325	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not explain what my colleague Krasic said, but I will say that the provisions of this article are contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why? The Code of Criminal Procedure, as a system law, this is not secondary legislation, this is now one law, which defines the participants differently. In Article 3, the Proposer says who all participants are in criminal proceedings, in this procedure which represents the programme. First suspect. The suspect is a potential defendant, potentially convicted, guilty man to be sentenced tomorrow for complicity in the execution of a felony, sentence, and up to 40 years in prison. Next, you say "witness, witness associate, damaged, expert and professional face." According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, they are not participants in the procedure. Under the provisions of criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the parties to the proceedings are the prosecutor, accused and accused. I don't know why the cooks didn't find themselves here, to be incorporated into this law. The promoter has dared to push this to parliament, to adopt something that should protect criminals. This is the protection of criminals. Why are we wasting our strength and the Home Office burdened ten operatives and police officers with the custody of a protected witness, a suspect because he's a criminal, because he's either a murderer or committed the most serious crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed between 30 and 40 years. What Mr. Krasic says, we're guarding criminals from the state's largest caliber. There's been a crime so far, and so far there's been murders, but that's what the Home Office discovered, lit up and brought to court. Now, when someone needs to be brought to court, let's find me a snitch, as Krasic, the informant who's going to tell us, "Here, I've been involved in this crime, forgive me, but declare me a protected witness." That can't happen in any country. What, then, does he enjoy protection if he was involved in the most serious crime? He must answer, and on the authorities of the prosecution it is a burden of proof, to collect data on the crime committed, to collect information on the perpetrator or perpetrators as accomplices of a criminal offence and other material evidence to obtain and to be tried in a regular procedure. Now we've invented special courts, special prosecutors. Now we've decided to pass the law to protect our faces in the process. From who? The operatives have to work, the prosecutor needs to collect evidence, a trial in a regular procedure. For these most serious crimes, what we now have in our practice -- special courts, I don't think that's effective, because these same crimes have been tried by judges of the district courts, as the most serious crimes. These special departments, giving them special salaries, double the salary of judges in the Supreme Court or the district court. In my opinion, the judges of county and municipal courts can judge without one law. The procedure can also be carried out before justice and wait for a fair decision by the competent court without this law. Many resources are being wasted, human forces are being wasted, i.e. Internal Affairs Service. Now let someone come out to let the public know in Serbia how many operatives and police officers are keeping their personalities in Serbia. Who? Serbian radicals were in the republic and federal government, there was no security for them, and we didn't want that. Now that you look at the individuals that are being provided and those who have been specially provided both in the previous government and in the previous government, half the budget was only going to provide their officials. Malten and the nannies had to provide the children who kept the children at their home. We can't allow something like this and this law won't apply. He can, but he won't be effective for the state. In the regular procedure, the authorities, and today we have, ladies and gentlemen, the very professional police, the police who are not at the level of 45. It's the police who are educated in high school, in higher schools, in colleges, the Academy of Police. Therefore, they went through this training and cut their expertise, especially operatives who have worked for 15, 20 or 30 years. We have able judges in county courts who can prosecute these crimes. We are still at the level of a professional professional institution, both in the police and in the judiciary. We can't say in general - the situation in the judiciary is a disaster. It is in relation to individuals who break the law and deal with what has long been known in Serbia, corruption and bribery, but these are individuals, and most of them are professional and correct people who judge and therefore need to be supported. But here and in the courts, order the courts, move those who are prone to such actions and conduct, we'll have the right judiciary. The Department of Justice has certain powers, not what someone thinks - don't touch anyone, please, we want to be an independent judiciary. We trusted the Supreme Court as the highest instance. Whether it's true or not, you'll see. Look at these affairs. These affairs interfere with criminal proceedings, which are being conducted in the media. They're obstructing criminal proceedings, because criminal proceedings should be conducted by the authorities, not now through the media to lead the war. Who's in charge, who's the protagonist? The protagonist is the one who moved the media from his own affair and directed them towards another affair. Therefore, it is not allowed. The media, and also those protagonists of these affairs, cannot, in any case, interfere with the work of the judicial authorities now. What's going to happen, if someone committed a crime, what crime and what weight, is determined by the court in charge, and that's why they should be allowed to determine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20326	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in line with the previous amendment of counterpart Vukkovic. The amendment stipulates that the final position of Article 3 of the Law should be deleted and replaced by this amendment. In this final position, it is stated that suspects, accused, expert, witness, witness associate, professional person have meaning within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure. First of all, the Code of Criminal Procedure did not define the concept of witnesses, but since the previous amendment provides that in a circle of protected participants in the criminal proceedings to be witnessed or damaged, this amendment was given the concept of witnesses and damaged. It was stated that the witness was called upon by the order of the court to give evidence of his senses of facts and circumstances relating to the subject matter of criminal proceedings. This adds one point that says that the damaged person within the meaning of Article 221(6) of the Code on Criminal Procedure. I think this definition is necessary to know which faces are covered by protection in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20328	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on the programme for the protection of participants in criminal proceedings and this amendment is related to several other amendments. First of all, with an amendment to Article 1 of this Act and the very name of the bill, where it is required to say "a programme to protect participants in criminal proceedings" by replacing the words "the law to protect participants in criminal proceedings". I have proposed an amendment to Article 4. This article reads: "The protection programme can be implemented before, during and after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings, according to a participant in criminal proceedings and close persons". The amendment suggested that these words "the protection programme can be implemented" by replacing the words "protection can be provided in accordance with this law" and then continued "before, in the course of and after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings, according to a participant in criminal proceedings and close persons". In this way, we would not question the concept of the law itself, and we are essentially not changing what will arise from this provision, but simply correcting a certain terminology inaccuracies by amendment. I think it was under the great influence of American literature or American films that wrote this bill, and that's the only reason, in my opinion, that's called the law on the programme for the protection of participants. If we look at the term used, the very word program can refer to a document, another general act, but one law cannot be passed for the sake of an act or for the sake of a document. The name of the law must be clear and unequivocal and must be expressed as referring to any activity or activity, or obligation from which a certain act or inaction arises. If you insist on the wording of the program, then the document in itself is a goal and words providing or providing protection are much more appropriate for our language, because they point to some action or action being carried out. The word program can refer to an art program, a program like this, a program like that, but it's definitely not a word that has been used so far in laws that regulate this area, so criminal law. The position of the SRS is that it is much more appropriate to say that it is a law on the implementation of the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. So this may look like something that may not be so important, but I think it's much more appropriate that the law says "protection can be provided in accordance with this law". This is how you prejudge that there is already some unique program and general program, which should probably be here in the law for us and presented, on the basis of which this particular protection will be applied equally to all persons. It does not exist, of course, that is not the meaning of this law, but is the purpose of the law to determine the conditions under which someone will be protected, to determine the way that protection will be provided. The protection provided to participants in criminal proceedings or close persons will be specific, will be carried out from case to case, depending on the need of each case, of course and on the type of criminal offence, threats that this participant in the criminal proceedings may face, that is, from the threat that threatens him or her with close persons, and I think that this is an incomparably better term of protection of the person rather than a protection programme. Serbian citizens should know that extremely large funds are provided for the implementation of this law. This is about 2006 about 905 million dinars, which is about 11m euros somewhere. These are significant financial resources, which will go to equipment, to the commission, to the salaries of the people who will be in that protection unit. So this is not a law where you can allow yourself any weather defects, and because of those who, in accordance with this law, are going to seek protection tomorrow. They will not seek the programme, but will seek protection and will not be provided with any programme, but will be provided with protection. I really don't see any reason why this amendment can't be accepted and simply termologically this law is regulated properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20330	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the U.S.S.S. isn't about passing a law like this. The minister is aware that we Serbian radicals are carefully analyzed and studied all the laws that are on the agenda in this high house, and we are particularly interested in the laws of the works that come as a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. Members of the SRS were very cooperative in some previous laws, proposed a large number of amendments, a lot of which was accepted and, of course, it was a great shame that what was not accepted was not accepted, because we would have much more practical laws. As far as this law is concerned, you have heard from Mr Tomislav Nikolic's explanation and his esteemed colleague, Peter Jojic, who has been dealing with this problem for many years, that this law is not necessary. If the state authorities were more effective in implementing legal provisions that prevent criminal acts, this law would not be necessary at all. When a law like this was proposed, we tried amendments in some members to fix them and make them a little better and better. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this law. This law regulates the material conditions under which protection is given to participants in the procedure. That this law is unnecessary and is not in accordance with other laws, i.e. with the Criminal Code, is explained by Mr Petar Jojic when he said that this law takes its own right and determines a number of participants in the proceedings, i.e. parties, than the Criminal Code predicted. In order to bring the public, professional public and the public of Serbia, Article 5, to which I have submitted the amendment, I will try to read the text proposed and the two interventions I have proposed to this member. In fact, Article 5 begins with "The Protection Programme is being implemented". I suggested that the words "Programme of Protection be implemented" be replaced by the words "This law provides protection". The proposed text goes further "if participants in criminal proceedings and close persons, due to the submission or notification of material to prove in criminal proceedings, are exposed to life, health, physical integrity, freedom or property, and without that statement or notice would be significantly difficult or impossible to prove in criminal proceedings for criminal offences. "I suppose there could be a very significant match here, a competition as many protected witnesses will appear, so heavy criminals, whose authorities have failed to get in the way, may wish to be protected witnesses to cover their big and heavy crimes as protected witnesses. If crimes are committed 1) against constitutional order and security, 2) against humanity and other goods protected by international law and 3) organised crime; here I propose that there be an erasure of organised crime and the vote - organized criminal association. Organized crime is a jargon term, not a legal term, and therefore I suggest that it be accepted instead of "organised crime" - "organised criminal association". From this law, when this law is passed and effective, as Mr Nemanja Sarovic said, there will be strong commitments for the Republic of Serbia's budget, or for taxpayers' taxes in Serbia. You have seen that 200 employees in the unit to protect participants in criminal proceedings are needed in addition to paying for 2006. Several factories could be built in which Serbian citizens could secure their workload and improve their standard of living.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20332	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a state this impoverished, in a state where nothing works, in a country where more than 70% of the drugs are on so-called. The negative list, so we have to buy, in a country where both health and education and everything else on very low branches, we found it appropriate only this year to separate 11m euros for criminals, because primarily protected witnesses who have come from this criminal mile so far are participants in various criminal activities, accomplices precisely with those who will be testified against and the state generously separates the money for it. I understand a certain initiative of the ruling coalition, because as soon as there is an emergency parliamentary election and they come down from power, many of them will seek the status of a protected witness to blame the other, testify against the other and protect themselves in part. Many of the ministers, deputies, assistants, directors of public enterprises, will find themselves in a situation where the state pays protection to protect witnesses against their company in the morning. Mr Krasic said very clearly for a moment, if the state intends to deal with all types of crime, not only with organised crime, in a month it can do so. We have trained, capable police, paid police as much as possible, but the police who know they're doing the job and the police have complete documentation on every criminal and every crime. The fact that this crime isn't allowed to get lighted up to the end and that criminals find themselves where they belong, that's another story. The fact that there's a string between criminals and some people in power, between criminals and some people in the judiciary, clearly showed a recent affair where the Supreme Court judge was taking bribes from the greatest criminal to let him go, from one of the biggest organized criminals, a pardon, one of the greatest ever discovered. When the political scene changes, then there will be a lot of bigger criminals who will then be discovered. Today they're in some chairs I don't want to talk about. This country promotes criminals instead of narrowing down crime. A protected witness; your former practice was, your protected witness is Chume, one of the biggest criminals in Serbia, the Chume who ran this same Zemun clan, the Chume who was the first fellow of Spasojevic or whoever, today he is a protected witness. When he goes to his construction sites, the police follow him, you don't know whether they're following Chumet or following the president of the Serbian state, the same car, the same sirens, the same thing, one front, one back. They're from the same party, though, so now I don't know... Will Dinkic ask you tomorrow to be a protected witness against Labus? You will accept and the state will pay for it. Whether Labus will be a protected witness against the Wolf, and all together against Davinic, when this criminal affair is cleared up and the state will pay extra. I also see a personal-description program here. That means, ladies and gentlemen, plastic surgery. Many of those I've listed will be grateful to the state for doing plastic surgery, because nothing like this, em, they're impersonal. Are we putting into a situation with this law that a hard criminal is a protected witness in a criminal case against another criminal whose work is far less than the work that a future protected witness has committed and that in this way we absolve him for what he's done, because, God, he's going to reveal everything to us here. Isn't there a fearsome possibility of manipulation opening up? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know the West is asking you for laws. It doesn't ask the West to prescribe laws from their films, but from their justice. Take this bill – where the minister is, he's out, he's gone – pull this, fix it, take it off, we don't need it today. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, made it clear to you that when these friends of yours promise to take us into the European Union in a month, we will pass all their 500 laws in a month. This is how we get into a situation where we pass laws that are loaded on our backs, on the backs of this people. And from the European Union, you get commendation that you are a leader in reforms, and reforming the state has led to a beggar stick. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to adopt the amendment of MP Sreta Peric and install him into this law, unless you want to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20334	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to say that I haven't been able to explain today the amendments I've submitted to these previous laws, but my colleagues have done it successfully, I hope, in my absence. I have attended the celebrations of the municipalities of Zemun and congratulate the citizens of Zemun today's glory. And now on Article 7 of the Law on the Protection of Participants in Criminal Procedure. The fact that this law did not have to, or should not have been passed, my colleagues also spoke in today's debate, and we also spoke in that principle debate, and certainly that this is the SRS' position, that we have no reason and that we do not need to protect criminals by law. The opinion of Serbian radicals is that anyone who has committed some crime for this crime must answer, no protected, no privileges. Because what you have already introduced and without the existence of the law has only led to increased crime in Serbia and that criminals no longer prevail, can do whatever they want, don't do it on their own, know that witnesses will be protected. Of course, someone else will rat out or lie, tell their story to someone else, and we all know it, and everyone in Serbia knows it, and it's known what the current names are, mentioned my colleagues, the current names of so-called protected witnesses, and in the opinion of the SRS does not contribute to the repression of crime in Serbia. We are as a party to the view that crime in Serbia must be reduced to a minimum, or to a minimum, measure, not to say that it is completely eradicated. The laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not fall within the scope of what is the programme's definition of the SRS. Why do you want to protect protected witnesses, you'll probably one day, I don't personally think about MPs, I mean those who propose such laws, it will certainly one day in front of some impartial and independent courts to explain itself. If you're already passing a law like this, you're going to vote for it, probably, if you don't fall apart before that on this pension, at least the government should take care of it, when it proposes laws that they really are, I repeat repeatedly what I really think and what we Serbian radicals think about bill proposals, clear, precise, applicable and possible in application of the law. No law so far proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has such characteristics. And it's as if someone's fully conscious and deliberately proposing and making laws that can be said, that the lines are being placed, how many laws we've passed, how many times we've changed and complemented them. And these laws essentially don't do Serbia's citizens any good, they don't rightly solve an area in which they should at least be treated. Article 7. The draft law on the programme for the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, to which counterpart Bozidar Koprivica submitted the amendment, speaks of the Commission for the implementation of the protection programme as a competent authority. Article 7 states in paragraph 1 that a decision on the inclusion, extension, suspension and termination of the protection programme shall be taken by a Commission for the implementation of a three-member protection programme. The amendment was to put the word "instituting" instead of "involvement" and delete the word "programme". Of course, now that I'm saying this, so someone who doesn't have a law in front of him probably doesn't have a clear idea of what the amendment really meant, so I'm going to read to you how this attitude should be with amendments. So: "The decision to establish, extend, suspend and suspend protection shall be taken by the Commission for the implementation of the Protection Programme, which shall have three members. "I don't understand why the minister, as a proposing representative, did not accept this amendment, as did those previous amendments that are in the same direction, with the same goal. I think it had to be understood, I expect fellow MPs to understand and accept it by the day of the vote, that our amendments are more precise, more concrete and contribute to a significant improvement in the text of the law. Article 7 has five positions. The amendment was to point 1 - to establish the principle more clearly, to establish the measures and actions provided and to ensure the protection of the person. So, the goal is not to bring in the program, but to provide and provide protection. For this reason, this amendment has been written. Such an explanation stands by the amendment. I'm going to comment a little on Article 7, which says, "One Member of the Commission is appointed from the order of the Serbian Supreme Court President of the Supreme Court, the other member is appointed by the Republic Public Prosecutor, and the Head of the Protection Unit is a member of the Commission by office." Of course, this should seem logical, where else to choose people on this committee, rather than from this particular composition listed in this Article 7. Proposal for a law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. We need to be aware of our reality, our reality and what's going on in our courts, our prosecutions. Minister, I asked you in the principle debate, I ask you today -- is it any guarantee that such high-level judicial functions are proposed by committee members? Is the guarantee of that unfortunate Supreme Court judge Vukkovic? Is Mile Radovanovic, deputy special prosecutor? So, this sounds like this to Serbian citizens, and it seems, especially to the professional public, to whom one's fate should be put into their hands -- another corrupt judge or prosecutor, that they will determine how much data they will use from someone who will be a protected witness, to whom they will use it, who will be a protected witness, who will not, whether they will pass as Bugsy -- you will be a protected witness, say everything we need you to say, and now you will not be a protected witness. All of this, unfortunately, is done precisely in this Special Court, against whose formation the SRS was even at the time it was formed, and today we think it shouldn't have existed. This detachment of immunity to the two judges and prosecutors is in favour of our claim and your once-proposed position, so you withdrew to the intervention of various Europeans when you kept this special department, known as the Special Court. Why was I talking about this? We in the SRS keep repeating -- we're free of laws, whatever, if there's no order in the judiciary. Of course, I don't think and we don't think that most judges and prosecutors are criminals, that they're corrupt, etc. On the contrary, I am convinced that most people in the judiciary are honest, honest, and professional people. These honorable, honest and professional neither will reach the Special Court, nor the Special Prosecutor's Office, nor the Supreme Court. Everyone in Serbia knows that. Minister, it is your responsibility, at your ministry, on this House, on the board of directors, on the High Council of Justice, most of all, because they have cooked everything, they propose to the Assembly which proposals, which they know in advance, cannot pass. Imagine the boldness, then, issuing a statement as the Assembly interferes with its work, how can the MPs reject the proposal of the High Council of Justice? Of course, mixed pots. It is necessary to come from this High Council of Justice, your ministry, the control of courts, new people in the judiciary, better conditions, in order to attract professional staff to the judiciary and to perform a definitive clearing with corrupt and criminal acts of justice. Until it's done, we're getting rid of the Criminal Code and this law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, the one about minors, etc. Therefore, a comprehensive state action must be implemented. I believe, Minister, that you are aware of it, that it is necessary. I suggest you do it as soon as possible. When we have judges and prosecutors who will apply the law as it is written in the law, which will be the principle that the law is the same for all and that they are all equal before the law, then we can talk about both such and such a law. We can make laws, harmonize them with European legislation, etc. We Serbian radicals have nothing against it. We don't like doing jobs that no one can benefit from. We don't like to brag, like you do, how many laws you've passed, and just do one analysis of how much of these laws don't apply. It does not apply to your ministry, I am talking about this House and this great story of how up-to-date this Parliament is and how much legislation it has passed. Yes, today the law is passed, so changes and additions are made in two months, so another one in three, five, we spend most of our time. It would be good, and we'll ask the president of the assembly to get from the competent ministries, to see what laws are "dead letter on paper", which are not applied, because we Serbian radicals said inapplicable laws were passed. So, I also spoke in principle about the government's draft laws we're discussing today, especially with this review of the situation in the judiciary. I think we should all get closer to this job. Of course, the SRS parliamentary group is doing this very seriously. When we have a proposal from the High Council of Justice, if we have a reason not to support it, that is, to challenge the proposal, we make it clear, loud, without twisting and fear, we say. Until everyone says so, we'll have judges like Vukkovic, prosecutors like Radovanovic, judge of the Trade Court, I don't know how many times I've mentioned that poor man, Goran Kljajevic. There's no one who doesn't share my opinion of him, but he still burns, burns down the Trade Court. So, Minister Stojkovic, you have a lot of work to do, hire people from the ministry, solve what this society is resting on. The judicial system is one of the most important pillars of every society. When we have a healthy judiciary, we can also count on the normal functioning of the institutions of the system, on the rule of law, on legal certainty, as much as you talk about us having it now, I'm telling you, and the citizens of Serbia know, you're wrong -- we don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20336	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this article I have submitted an amendment to remove one inaccuracy in paragraph 3. It is that the application for inclusion in the protection programme contains an assessment of the existing evidence. The proposal is to delete - existing evidence, and only to remain - an assessment of the importance of the testimony or the notification of the procedure. This is due to the fact that an assessment of the existing evidence can only be conducted in court proceedings, and that assessment can be contained in the court's decision, and no assessment of the evidence can be carried out. Is that amendment accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20338	No, 26-member item 3. point 2) is deleted. That's the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20339	It was Mr. Vukkovic who submitted the amendment, I didn't know, I apologize, Minister. As regards this second amendment at point 2) of the third position, where it is proposed that the Commission request the Protection Unit to submit a risk assessment within 15 days to which the community would be exposed in the event of inclusion in the protection programme. This is such a vague provision, because I can't understand that the community can be in danger at all because we include someone in the witness protection program. It could be in danger of some bad community, and then it can't even carry out, it'll be stronger than the state to which such protection is being conducted. I think this provision is too vague and it can't be left to this unit to judge a line like that. If the state is at risk, then it should already be decided by some higher authorities. I can't understand that she can be threatened by providing protection to a participant, witness or damaged, since I suggested that witnesses and damaged persons be only participants in this procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20340	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted to the 38th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure (Statistics) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in detail, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20341	In the end, the only thing I have to say, and I've already said that, is that co-operation was correct. I think we'll finally get those laws, and I'm talking about two laws -- the Criminal Code and the Witness Protection Measures -- as a condition for association and accession negotiations. Thank you very much for your cooperation. What has been really professionally given and on your part, the Government has accepted and I think we will get one set of criminal laws that will satisfy all the necessary European Community standards. Normally, I don't mean two things. One of them is material, and there's going to be a little more time, to provide better conditions in prisons. The second, after this legislative framework, I fully agree with Member Radet, we must take action, and you see that we are also taking action, that the matter of urgency, means efficiency, quality of work and corruption in court is resolved. I completely agree that even the best laws won't yield results unless we have this second element. On the other hand, the other one couldn't give it unless we had these valid laws as a legislative framework. Once again, thank you and I hope to pass this law. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-27-0.u20342	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. That's what we're done for today. We'll continue the work at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
