ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several objections and several things that represent a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The first is, but I won't insist on it, which session didn't start at 10.00 hours. But I insist that there be a proposing representative here, Minister Koadinovic, not to underestimate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs in the Serbian Parliament, not to refer to them as pastors, as to someone who should neither know nor understand why they should be brought, adopted, voted or voted in favour of the Radio Diffusion Law and to interrupt the session due to disrespect for the Assembly's dignity. Analyzing the obligations of MPs of the same obligation exist for ministers, if not greater, as referred to in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and in spirit are the whole text of all the members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please report to us who are the smarter emissary of Kadadinovic? What's more important today is that he introduces the law on broadcasting to us today. By the way, I'm obliged to say that this morning there's been a big scandal, a terrible insolence, so far, I'd say, seen, but completely pointless, and I can't understand what it's about. Namely, one of the TVs known for the lies, B92, this morning her reporter, before the delayed transmission of Vojislav Seselj's testimony from The Hague, said Vojislav Seselj, in his testimony, accused Kostunica of having paramilitary formations in Kosovo, and then the delayed transfer to the direct issue of Robinson and Milosevic Seselj said that it was notorous nonsense and nonsense and that everyone in Serbia would laugh if they heard someone say that Vojislav Kostunica had paramilitary formations. I'm asking if these people are normal? I ask those who lead the initiative on medical examinations, because it's a scandal of unprecedented proportions, which requires these medical examinations and I accept that we all go to medical examinations that represent some kind of public in Serbia, but also those who call politicians, that they go to a doctor's appointment first, and that they show us if they have good hearing, whether they hear well, whether they see well, or have some disease that they're bad enough that you can't even understand it in medicine. I don't know how else to interpret this. No one knows how to interpret it. Well, you're all in shock when you hear this and those who saw it this morning. It's just that a normal man can't believe something like this. I expect us to see not only an apology from those but I expect us to see what Kadadinovic is going to say about it. We expect to see, since he kept quiet about how Toma Nikolic was a murderer in Antin, and I don't know where he kept his mouth shut, making up the news... (President: time's up. After they kept quiet about it, the mail let the hardest lies go against someone, even though they saw that they had no evidence and they had no idea who was killed or when he was killed, and let alone who was the killer, we need to get an explanation. They had little to do with the fact that the Croatian MUP said it had nothing to do with it, they were now going to lie openly and I don't know what they let Seselj go who says it's notorious nonsense after that. They could say that he killed what was above him, could say that he shot Milosevic, could invent whatever he wanted more. And now I'm asking if these are the ones who are talking about their information program being a public service. I'm asking the competent state authorities to plead on this matter. I ask Koadinovic to plead on this issue, and then come here to tell us about the law on broadcasting, and only then MPs to react, not to let MPs talk without the minister telling them a single word. This requires a fundamental order and I see that most MPs are uncomfortable about it, and I ask, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that you plead on this matter and that you interrupt the session immediately and that it proceeds when the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18416	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The rules applicable to the media apply to this session. So, in the exact order we're going, I'm glad you came forward in time, and now let me continue according to the Rules of Procedure, as possible, and get to the next sentence by the Reminder -- does the proposing representative, Dragan Kadadinovic, the culture minister want a word? Since the proposer's not here, of course I'm taking a 15-minute break, to check what's going on, and please, since there's no reason, and so far, trust me, the president will always respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we move on to the session, one announcement. The 18th session of the Education Committee, which will continue to discuss amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, is scheduled for 13.00 hours at the Blue Salon. The word has Minister Dragan Koadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18418	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I most sincerely apologize for this delay, although it was justified, I was on the Committee on Public Service in the Republic Government. We're talking about something that we know very well today, and I hope we can talk about today in a very beautiful and constructive atmosphere. Let me also from this place, especially for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, express one great personal satisfaction with the atmosphere that ruled at the last session of the Committee on Culture, where these amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act were mentioned. As a citizen, I was happy that there was a moment where representatives of various political parties would talk in such a way about something that was common concern. But I don't want to owe it to you, not to make any of my impressions about it any longer. So before us, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion, which is necessary to make the Radio-Difusion Act finally applicable. As you all know, the Radio-Difusion Act was passed in July 2002 and for various reasons until today, its provisions are not applied. We live in a land where time runs much faster than in some other countries. It's 2005 now. At the beginning of this year, the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency was finally established, which is about to bring an end to the adoption of acts that will allow its work to begin. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law end the process of forming the Council by setting out the duration of the term of office of the members of the first Council. In determining the length of the first term, the importance of the public interest represented by the proposer and the need to ensure a sufficiently long period of stable Council composition, in which it will be able to overcome the current resulting chaos in broadcasting. For the irony to be greater, the biggest chaos has arisen or the chaos has increased drastically in 2001 or since 2001, when moratorium was seduced at the frequency assignment. A new competition was expected that did not take place today. It is therefore proposed that instead of two, four and six years, the term of office of members of the first Council assembly should last four, five and six years. Article 2 The law is proposed to delete a provision granting rights to a member of the Council who has been elected, on a proposal from the AP Vojvodina, which do not have other members of the Council. The Radio Diffusion Act provides that members of the Council do not represent the authorities or organisations that have proposed them, but do their duty independently, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with this law. Starting from this provision, it was logical to even all members of the Council in rights, firmly believing that with their knowledge, ability and security they would equally be responsible for resolving all issues, regardless of what part of the Republic of Serbia they were referring to. In view of the great delay in the start of work of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, it was necessary to extend the deadlines for the privatisation of local electronic media and for the transformation of the RTS Public Enterprise into a public service, which was done by art. 3rd and 5th Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio-Difusion Act. I know there will be a lot of words today about moving that deadline. I just want to warn you that there's no change of subject and thesis, this is about moving the deadline, it's not about moving the start of privatization of radio and TV stations. It is true that the big question is how much will they be interested in buying a "cat in a sack", since now all the radios and TV stations that broadcast the program on these premises do not have adequate, or have no license, since the decision to introduce the moratorium in 2001 all these permits and shut down. Maybe there's a reason, for those who are prone to gambling, that today, when there's not known enough of it, they buy a cheaper thing that maybe later, after the competition and the frequency assignment, it'll be worth more. But it's bad. After all, we know that almost no radio and TV stations have been privatized so far. There are individual examples that may not be bright. It is an interest of all of us, as well as the Serbian states in general, to preserve RTS as a house of great national interest, and for this reason, the law provides for the introduction of a TV subscription for the public company RTS and in the phase of its transformation into public service. The government proposed its amendments to the text of the law to include provisions by which the TV subscription will be charged through the account of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, as the safest way to make it happen. Let me say a few things here, too. There have been remarks, lots of lawyers with good experience, who notice and warn that the law prescribes the collection of subscription when RTS is transformed into a public service. Maybe it's more form than essence. What's the point, anyway? The point is that the moment the first dinar of TV subscription comes into the RTS register, not yet transformed into a public service, it becomes a public service, because the legislator's main intention was to release RTS, or public service, or that most powerful national medium, any influence of any political power, structure, or government itself. I believe that this is possible in the country of Serbia, and this legislation is an excellent basis for it. In accordance with the rules laying down the amount of fines, fines for breach of the provisions of the Radio Diffusion Act have also been increased. We hope that, following the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Radio-Difusion Act, the Council will begin to carry out the tasks for which it is competent under the law, that it will finally begin the privatisation process of local electronic media and that, in the near term, the public company RTS will become a public service. When I was talking about the subscription, there was something else I wanted to say. It is often said to be a new imposition on the people, a new separation. It probably is, but he should be aware that the time has come for all that is used to be used to pay. Also, RTS is a good part of the budget today. You all know how to form a budget, so you can't say that citizens still don't support most of RTS today. Anyway, there will be a lot of objections to the existing provisions, probably those that are now proposed. We are aware that there are still many provisions that need to be brushed, further aligned and perfected. That's probably the next step. What we've proposed now is enough to start a huge job called cleaning up chaos on the air. I have absolutely no influence, and I don't want to have any effect on the Broadcasting Council, but I've been doing this job for a long time, and I know there shouldn't be too much concern for those who are broadcasting today. Anyone who works seriously and professionally, who has the right equipment, will remain on the air and will be able to work well. What you can't even see from the existing law is too clear or clear enough and you may not even see through these changes, which we don't talk about at these meetings where we're discussing this law and its application, is something that, in my opinion, is the essence. This whole legislative regulation and this new time in which we now live has led to the fact that, practically, now radio and TV stations are divided into those that are public service and those that are commercial. This requires appropriate conditions that should not be disabled either side. Public service will have a subscription and will have a limited number, percentage of advertising messages - 10% of the total duration of the program. On the other hand, we'll have commercial stations that will live off the market. It's a good opportunity to bring the media market back to life, but also the real economic market. You'll keep your licenses for nothing, you'll spread your coverage if there's no money to support all these systems. It is clear that without the economic development of this country, without a better market, without allowing the functioning of market principles, many radios and television stations that are and others on the air will be shut down for economic reasons. There's a huge job ahead of us that needs to be done. I'm sure this is a good start. Once again, I apologize for the delay. I am once again expressing great satisfaction with the atmosphere that ruled on the Committee on Culture and I hope that we will continue on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18419	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, the authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the major proposals for the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting, which we adopted from the beginning of the summer of 2002, was to introduce a number of changes to Serbia's broadcasting system, which was meant to contribute to the different behaviour of RTS, a different attitude towards Serbian citizens, and is understood immediately after that and a different attitude of Serbia's citizens towards national television, which was meant to arrange an unmistakably wild space where there was no telling what was happening, who controlled what frequency, by which law and whether there were rights and laws in general in the broadcasting sector. It almost didn't happen. I'll tell you why what I'm saying is important and why these June 2002 dates are important, when that law was passed. In fact, we had a deadline for RTS to be turned into a public service by April 2003. It's a legal deadline. That deadline isn't too inclusive, that norm isn't cognitive. Today we have a correction in this law, in the bill of law and additions, but we still have no sanctions and we have no responsibility for those who will break that deadline. So, the deadlines imposed today for the creation of RTS as a public service, Serbia's broadcasting institution, Vojvodina, so, for six months, we have a problem, because what if it is nine months, what if it is 15 months, what if it is five years, who will answer, the minister, director of national television, who, whose responsibility it is, who is going to be, who is going to be on sanctions and whether in a year or two again in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, someone is going to discuss what, how and how we failed to pass this law. This is one general observation, because all the deadlines given are so-called declarative nature. They're like that, I'm telling you a story, a political story, we're going to do it in that time frame, and they're actually not really deadlines, and that's just the way it is, and that's the most important thing to say about this law. There are good and very bad standards here. I will start with what was the initiative of the SRS MPs in the Committee on Culture and Information, I think it is the initiative of MP Markovic, but in any case, a good initiative to change the anti-constitutional state. It was also necessary for the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Radio-Difusion Act and remove those norms and provisions that are directly anti-constitutional, and one of the directly anti-constitutional norms was that a member from Vojvodina had the right to veto decisions made by the Broadcasting Agency Council, which is absolutely amazing. You now have the Vojvodina Assembly that chooses to bring it down to one real level, one Karadzic, a tough autonomist, a separatist, put it in place, which will work directly against Serbia at any time. Whatever comes to mind will be directly against Serbia, and you can't make any decision because he's going to stop it, because he's going to say, "I'm sorry, I'm vetoing, and you're killing yourself after that for six months, a year, two years and nothing." And it's a good thing that this law now erases such a possibility and no longer has the possibility of both anti-state action and separatist action through norms within this law and that's one thing that's okay. We have something that represents a big problem and a terrible burden for the citizens of Serbia, which is the story of introducing a public service subscription. Now we're going to do a retrospective of how the public service story started, when it showed up, what was going on and what happened today. Namely, in the establishment of DOS authorities, how are the charges against all those who are against them, and the self-gratitude of the authorities, all of a sudden all these media who were involved and all the journalists who were socio-political workers, like many today, I will never say anything to everyone or most of them, because I am convinced that they are not, but one significant piece that represents socio-political workers, who think they are smarter than all politicians, that they can not criticise and control everything, but that they can do it all better than anyone, and then they are able to slander, lie, invent. There are countless examples like this. The best and most flagrant example is the one concerning Tomislav Nikolic. Fifteen days in a row, they ran a brutal campaign, I hope you didn't think of them, Mr. Kodedinovic, when you were talking about professional and objective, about how a man killed someone somewhere. Now you ask the question, and how someone dares to attack them; people, they accuse a man of being a murderer, and they didn't even say the name of the murdered. Are you aware of what this means, whether you intervened, Mr. Minister, whether you asked them, and whether the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the assumption of innocence, just a telephone conversation, not officially, not pressure, to ask them only. You've been running a lie campaign for 15 days. Here today, you don't know, Mr. Minister, who was killed; tell me who was killed at the time when Nikolic was there. You don't know, nobody knows, 15 days a man is a murderer, and they're professional and objective. They say they're like the main service; it's a public service, God forbid. I'm not able to say the words that are spoken by some of your colleagues, but some of your advisors are fundamentally right and are not far from the truth when they speak of the nature of that medium, when they speak of what lies and slanders are used. I ask you, why didn't you ask that question, how come their journalist says this morning -- "if Vojislav Seselj had talked about the paramilitary units of Vojislav Kostunica"; he says it was nonsense and nonsense, so that everyone in Serbia would laugh if they heard that Vojislav Kostunica had paramilitary units. As it may be, is it you, if these things are creepy, I'd say, real models or moduses of how objective television should look and unbiased. Or, the main news on TV is that Boris Tadic got into some Dark Rundek's bar. This is where our country falls apart, they take away Kosovo and Metohija, they tear down our homes for refugees, they do whatever you get, so I'm sitting in a pub with some singer who swears on the street with no one. Is that objective and professional? If we don't talk about it any further, I have to say that I'm sure they won't impose on us the objectivity and professionalism of the defeated Broz's staff, the defeated 8-session personnel, Stambolic's currents, and that they present themselves today as high-democrats, that little Titiks are managing the media and that they're making sense that they're a public service. Here's Gordan Susha, best example. Do you have any better examples? Gordana Suša, direct case. She was the greatest persecutor of free thought during the Broz regime, here she is today the biggest yellow, biggest Democrats, and today she's salting her mind with what needs to be done and what public service should look like. How many are there? And what if we trusted Tianic that tomorrow would be so. If the main news is going to be that he's received water polo every day, he's received Darko Rundek and I don't know who, is that news for our country significant? I don't think so. We're just waiting for them to tell us how many mirrors he bought, and now he's telling us it's important news for the citizens of Serbia. We don't want to be here in a demagogue way to talk about how it bothers someone that they're huge amounts, but you have to keep in mind that the big amounts they're talking about are big amounts. You're talking about three hundred dinars. It's going to change, as is the price of fuel, because it's going to say, we're harmonising with prices for a little bit, the price index for a little bit, we're harmonising with inflation growth, and I don't know what. It's not for us MPs, it's not for you ministers, we all have big salaries, but Serbian citizens don't. Serbian citizens live hard, and this is a force on them on the villa. Now that you say, Mr. Minister, in our time it was, at some point it wasn't, and at that time when it was, I was waiting for you and prepared you, Mr. Minister, you're quoting. Here's what the power of Mr. Kodedinovic and everyone else says about a taxi on an electric counter. I'll just have the headlines, Mr. Kodedinovic. "It is a tax on life; the killing of the people; the mighty take away the hungry; Shessel's madness; the red-black psychopathology; the binding of the heavy stone to the thin necks of the Serbs. Everyone who seriously thinks they're dealing with it will stop, because this is a thief and a kidnapper. Shessel's psychopathic withdrawal to the people." Now I have to ask you, is this Tadic's, Kostunica's, yours, whose psychopathic withdrawal money? Whose madness is this, Mr. Kojadinovic? That's what interests me. I have no illusions that campaigning against the SRS in the past 15 years has meant many lies. I remember when you were talking about Shessel's cab on her cell phone, and then you introduced ten times bigger when you came to power. I'm not talking about you personally, you understand me, I'm talking about the Dossier Authority. Then it wasn't Djindjic's tax anymore, it was a democratic tax. I can understand it all, it's politics, it's fraud, it's corruption. But let us speak publicly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, openly and not be ashamed to oppose lies and insinuations. There's one more thing I want to point out to you. All MPs here, speaking of medical examinations of politicians, MPs, I'm sure almost no one has anything to do with it, but since someone is insinuating that people who are dealing with this job are abnormal, I want to ask those who are capable of such things, such lies and insinuations, as we had about Tomislav Nikolic or today about the testimony of Vojislav Seselj, who doctors can cure such things? Give us an indication of what doctors are responsible for, so we can ask them for help for some other people who want to impose medical support on us, etc. I think we need to change, I'm going to talk in part two about other things about change, about changing the mandate of members of the Radio-Difusion Council, about changes in years of duration, about the possibility of re-election, etc., in another ten minutes, I'm going to use it. Thank you for your attention, but now I'm waiting for you to come out and say: and since it's a subscription from a great monster and a heavy rock about the thin necks of Serbs, psychopathic madness, and I don't know what has become an important, good and very noble thing for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18421	The word has Minister Dragan Koadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18422	Mr. Wolfie, you know I like to talk to you and get into a lot of duels, and we've done it many times. I did ask you the question you expected, but I didn't expect you to accept it so easily. Do you want to talk about the character of the program for which the subscription was taken? Do you want to talk about it? It's not a problem here. I'm a TV subscription instrument. The problem is, what is the subscription to the collection, what is the concept of the program, what is the character of the program? The fact is, it's really a huge subject and you know well that we've been a bit of an opponent back then. I was on that painful side and don't tell me what the program was. There was an instrument in the hands of a political option that ruled Serbia. So we're talking about something that's a legal basis and a good platform for a different radio-television program. I'd only ask you to listen carefully, I've listened very carefully. We can talk here about what the RTS programme is today, the most said polls, that it's the most visible and influential medium. It's true, there are still weaknesses, both smaller and larger. People who came there a few months ago just started a big job, changing a structure that's been stoned for decades to that extent that it's not easy to change. But I'm saying, if you want to talk about it, I'm very ready just because a lot of my colleagues and I have felt such a policy on our shoulders, and that kind of behavior and abuse of the media. But, I say, I think it should be said that TV subscription is practically insurance that this programme will be in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and that is what is essential and most important. If you want to talk about this in every place, I'd love to, because I have a lot more arguments than you do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18423	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18424	You seem to have had a very painful time in your life and that has left little consequence, Minister. Here's to remind you of two facts that you can't possibly kill. Then the Tianic, today the Tianic. What's the difference? Then the SPS in power, today's SPS in power. What's the difference? You can't, Minister, by the simplest definition of the state to tell us that state television wasn't right at the time you were in the opposition, and your automatic transition to power means that state television is good. It's not a good state television, and you know it very well, and you're watching the state log and you know if it's being arranged by the yellow or by the DSS. If the first news is whether Boris Tadic rose up and washed his legs on time that morning, then the yellow office. If the first news is what Vojislav Kostunica was doing, the DSS does. Back then it was the most watched state television, that was the time, you don't have to remind Mr. Vukic that when Mr. Vukic and I left the Radio-Television Management Board, even though we were in power, since the TV was in the service of Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. That's true. But to trust Tianic with his subscription back in his arms, that's really immoral. I understand your definition of public service, whether there's a subscription or not, that's all the public service definition. For me, public service is in the interests of the people, in the interests of all citizens, many things, many conditions need to meet RTS to be a public service. Tell that Tijanic, as soon as he has to write us a national television, that means he doesn't believe himself that television is national, like that kid who gets a job on the board to draw a horse, so he draws, he moves away, sees that nobody can recognize, write down -- this is a horse, so Tijanic writes to us -- this is national television. Whether you're okay with it or not, but he wrote you a Tianic. That's why, Mr. Minister, you have a very delicate task today, you have to get the numbers out of the pighouse, because when the subscription was made, you were running the cameras around the pigs to paint how it has a number, so now the pigs are watching television, paying the subscription. You're going to have a lot of trouble, Mr. Minister. We even had an excuse, so here I am convinced to vote for that subscription, right here, next to this pay phone. They say Albanians don't pay the subscription, we need to introduce order in Kosovo and Metohija. There was a disturbance, a interrupted session three times, and we introduced a subscription. We had some excuse, but now let me see your justification. I once visited that national television show on the editor-in-chief and responsible editor's show and when I came out, the show was recorded, I made a mistake once again, it's never gonna happen again, I called Alexander Vukic and I said - call Tianic and tell him if I want to go to B-92, I'm going to New Belgrade, I'm not going to go to Kostunica. That TV is now very similar to TV B-92. Take data on ratings and don't insult the dignity of the National Assembly here. Serbia's radio-television is not the most watched TV in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18425	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18426	I don't have much to say and add to what Mr. Nikolic was talking about. It's true I've never run away from a duel with Mr. Kodedinovic. The public and citizens of Serbia evaluated and assessed who was more successful, who spoke the truth more or less, as well as how he talked about it. Anyway, I'd have a lot to talk about Studio B TV and how she acted, but it's not our theme. I'm just gonna talk about RTS. You haven't heard of any of us celebrating the past. You have now heard Mr. Nikolic's most terrible criticism of the current situation in RTS. Now I'm going to tell you, is it worse than it was at the time of Gordana Susha, who will be "yellow" to call and say it was ideal, because they did what they wanted to do. No, it's not, absolutely and certainly not. Was it much better before October 5th? No, it's not. Tomislav Nikolic has been asked on the board of directors why there is no opposition, why there is no radicals, but above all the opposition in the Serbian Television programme, has been responsible for not being able to be on TV one to spit on our president. After that sentence Tomislav Nikolic said - to Vukic, let's go and write resignations. We sent them in writing and told the president of the board of directors and director of state television on the spot. Yes, we did, and a year after that, we stayed in power for a while, but we weren't members of the RTS board at all. To hear from us that we're praising that period you won't. Are we gonna say it was bad? Yeah, it was bad, and you never heard anyone say it was ideal, but I also don't justify that hack and the harangu, which is where they're going to attack the press because they said the Ustasha forces were attacking Serb defenders there and there, which is why it was a worse medium. And today it's ideal because they say that Serbian butchers have killed innocent Muslims, Croats everywhere, etc. That's why they're professional today, and they used to be unobstructive. That kind of relationship we'll never have, and that's a fact, that's what you resent. It is not one-sided, party policy that has been pushed is not resented, but is resented by the talk of Serbs in Krajina, which has been said of Serbs in Republika Srpska. We don't blame them. But today we resent those who want to present model B-92 to us as public service. Now let me tell you something, I'll tell you a little bit, don't interrupt me, please, maybe I'll use it more a minute. We've had election campaigns and we've been trying to get a correction. You all know, Mr. Koadinovic, when we were in the most severe conflict, we had a correct personal relationship, always. We tried, Mr Nikolic, and all the other members of the SRS, in campaigns to have a professional relationship, a maximum professional relationship with all the media. That was the deal at the Presidential College of the SRS. We agreed to go to B-92, all the TV shows, all the radio shows. Toma Nikolic started those shows, but they weren't shows, you're all my witnesses. He couldn't say a single word about his program, not a word. He did not speak at all about what the subject of the election is, what he offers Serbian citizens. He had to answer to the scariest vomits, the untrues, everything and everything, and they asked him for a subscription. They asked him how he introduced the subscription to the pigs, how you're now introducing a pig's subscription. He couldn't talk about his program. Is that true? That's right. I went to the mayor's campaign, they called me and the day after I went to Bogdanovic, good morning, my dear, come to the coffee shop, and even their listeners listened and said -- people, don't do it, just go to the radicals, this doesn't make any sense what you're making. I asked them if you'd let me say one sentence. They wouldn't let me say a single sentence about the program and the subject of the election. That's what they've been doing all along. Are these professional and objective media for you? Thank you, we know it's been a good campaign, but I'm asking if they're professional and objective media. Is it a professional and objective medium that Tomislav Nikolic shoots a secret at the entrance to Serbia's Television that he doesn't see it and doesn't know it's going to be broadcast, and then released by the editor-in-chief of Serbia's Television, who, for God's sake, has wronged him, people call and ask how Tomo crosses you? Tom has no idea what it's about, he doesn't even know how to record it, let alone go into the program, and he even answered it and he was sore. So what we've always had, and you know that we've been and we've been absolutely honorable, correct and responsible, and that's that every time we've wanted to go out to the duels, that we've never been able to hide from anyone. The first was Vojislav Seselj, who gave this right to Zoran Djindjic, when Djindjic called us and asked us personally to meet him, I personally called Zoran Djindjic. We did this to everyone because we were never afraid of different political ideas, different opinions. Obviously, there are those who are afraid of different opinions, and there are clearly those who want to make public service on their own, and the public service to be the kind of model as a hickey against one way of thinking, a hickey against people who are going to think differently from the current government or from what they thought it was meant to be. It is something that is inadmissible and now I repeat to you the results that Toma Nikolic told you, RTS was the most convincing view before 2000, which does not say that he had a good information program, I tell you immediately on the contrary, and today RTS is not the most visible but is "Pink" the most visible. All the polls we get, and I get them every morning. I don't know how you read them. Here you go and say it's not true. Yes, it's true. Like it or not like this one or that TV. So that's something that numbers are, and these are facts, and I would ask you to explain to us, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, how and in what way, Mr. Kadadinovic, now because of the numbers they have in the pighouse, as Toma Nikolic said, because of what they have in their stables, because of what they have in their barracks, barns, camps, they have to pay the subscription. If that's already going on an electric dial, and I doubt the pigs make a very big difference between the program of one, the other, the third, the fifth or the tenth television, and it would be a good idea to point out that. I'm not offering you a better solution because you criticized this solution. Now I ask you to answer how pigs pay a public service subscription without knowing what to look at, because that question is being asked by you, Mr. Koadinovic in due time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18427	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18428	Since MPs have the right to be informed of everything in the interest of decision-making, I will read you the message I received from the director of national television. "Well done, Reverend Tomo, I hope Master Zeljko can appreciate this. I don't mind." A man like that is the director of state television.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18429	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18430	I didn't get any text messages, but I hope no one from commercial television or the state appreciates what I'm about to say here. I answered the line to all those who mention the SPS in this debate and, to put it that way, that time. If the alibi is the minister for introducing the subscription, and I remind him, he did not return the subscription again, but the former government of Zoran Djindjic, or the Democratic Party, may not have been alive then and I can't remember whether it was before or after the murder, since I was not in the republic of parliament. I want to remind everyone here that in this same home, it was euphoric, spectacular in 2001, Božidar Djelic, from this place, explained, and all of you here were jumping out of joy and applauding, why television overlay should be lifted. Because you promised that to the voters in 2000 and you kept that promise. The fact that you cheated on voters, and now you're re-upposing 2002 and 2005, I must say that we are comfortable with the repentance that you've experienced in your heads. This pig story is not the story of Tom Nikolic, it's the story of Goran Vesic from that year. So that's when it's said about why such a overpayment system was found, and then those who have electricians and stables have to pay for television over payment. I agree it's illogical, but it hasn't been found, and neither have you in the last five years found a better way to kill a television overpass. Just please, in the criticisms of some last time, please gather and look at yourself sometimes, and whether you are very different from some others or you are much the same or you are much worse. In any case, it was said that the founder of a state, the one of which is a public property, has always been, it has always been so in every government, followed by a state policy or a policy at a certain level. Did Studio B follow the policies of all Belgrade citizens or politics of the then coalition Together or the SPS or the Democratic Party? Did the Zemun newspaper follow the policy of all or those ruling majority at that time? After all, you've all been a little involved with us. Now, don't be so hard on yourself, it's not worth anything to you because you've been in this together, and so don't provoke us, Mr. Minister, so that we can change our decision now, and our decision is out of the satisfaction that you admit that you've misappropriated the overpayment, so we'll vote again for your repentance. Not yours, you didn't explain it then, but I'm sorry that now there is no Bozidar Djelic, which is not there Goran Vesic and some others because some of the DSS people said so. What about national television, call it what you want, state television, Serbian Radio-Television? Do you have any other way to fund it or we'll leave it to commercial television to raise our children? In any case, after a certain period, the look backwards is much different than when "the thing of the night". That's why you keep trying to talk about some past tense like it's October 5th or 6th. It's been a long time since October 5th. In any case, we accepted the amendments to this law for the sole reason why it is apparent that DOS had the wrong policy, because it said it would abolish the overpayment, because it had promised the citizens. This is where the people of the Serbian government, Djelic, Batic, the DSS people, Korac and others said -- what are you worried about financing state television, we are in power now, and everything will be okay, and what's wrong? Let's not just talk about the character of the program. At a time when the Democratic Party was in power, the Socialists could only appear in the 2nd daily when they were arrested, killed or extradited to The Hague tribunal. Since the Democratic Party's representatives say it is good, we will fight with all our strengths so that you will never again be able to manage Serbia's Radio-Television or anything important in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18431	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18432	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, there is something in front of us today that is just continuing to supplement and correct something that was wrongly done in 2002. So, the Radio Diffusion Act, which was passed in July 2002, had ten versions to allow the 11th to be adopted. The way it was written and all the illogical things that were in it simply required that some things change, and especially the way RadioDifusing advice was chosen. I will use this first part of the time to just remind you of the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, which has led to problems in the functioning of the Radio-Delefuz Council, which is why this area, which is very important for the MPs, but it seems to me above all for the citizens of Serbia, has not been regulated in a legal and valid manner so far. So, the previous ruling majority in this home, with violations of the law or non-compliance with legal procedures, has chosen a Radio-distribution Council that has never received legitimacy for its work, both in organisations dealing with this area and with Serbian citizens. What we did last year obviously gave the results. We have amended the Law in that part where we have transposed authorised proposings, but we have recommenced that the rest is the same as it was, because practically four states are giving and four are giving the civil sector and it should actually be a sign that the state does not want to have a crucial impact in any way in the independence of the work of the Broadcasting Council. I think that's what happened. Only the malicious ones, who won't see things move from a dead spot, will not say, although they may be involved in the work of the RadioDifusing Council, that they are the most important documents concerning the functioning of the RadioDifusing Council already being prepared and delivered. So, the strategy for the development of the Radio-Difusion in Serbia is at the very threshold of the adoption, and hence the frequency distribution process, i.e. The launch of competitions for frequencies, both at national and regional level, and at the end and at local level. So, things are moving from a dead end and precisely because we had to step down and ensure the independence of the work of the RadioDifusing Council, we brought amendments and additions to the RadioDifusion Act in 2004. How independent is the RadioDifu Council today? So there are certain groups of people or certain experts in this country who talk about the political impact on the Radiodifuge Council, especially on the members elected by this assembly. I will remind you that the Assembly has elected three members on a proposal from the committee of directors and that over 200 MPs voted for those members. It is illogical to expect the opposition to support party candidates in the ruling structure. Of course, she recognized the candidates' expertise and everything the law requires to possess. And now, the Broadcasting Council should act on its conscience, by law and in the interest of Serbian citizens. I believe if we let him do it, that's how it's gonna happen. As for the amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act that are now on the agenda, I will go over all amendments and additions, and in the end I will remain at the public service service or the transformation of RTS into public service, which also triggers the greatest attention of the MPs, but what is primarily undeniable to do in these amendments and the additions of the Law, it is to start from what we called the right veto, which is in the previous, or in the still valid law given to a member of the Broadcasting Council of Vojvodina. So, not only is this not in line with the principle of equality of all members of the Radiodifuse Council, but it is not in line with the broadcasting law itself, which clearly states that the members elected to the Radiodifuse Council do not represent the organs and organisations that have chosen them, but they are, in general, radio-difusion, by their conscience and by their knowledge. So it is not logical for one member to have greater rights to decide in the field of broadcasting, and of course, I would remind the MPs, and thus the public, that this year, in Sarajevo, the Serbian Broadcasting Agency became part of a family of broadcasting agencies practically across Europe. And, of course, that everything that is the interests of radio-difusion in Europe will not be past the interest of radio-difusion in Serbia. So, in fact, all those who care and talk about that the Radiodifuge Council will not properly recognize the problems of multi-ethnicity and multinationalism in Vojvodina I think they are wrong. There is no reason why the Radiodifuse Council does not recognize these problems, especially when there is a member who is from Vojvodina who will point out these problems. So the G17 Plus parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of equating the rights of all members of the Broadcasting Council. Also, these amendments and additions to the Law are proposed to re-election of members of the Radio-Diffusing Council. So, in this law, it is proposed. in the one which is now valid is one member who says that the first members of the selected RadioDifusing Council cannot be proposed again and cannot be re-elected. What Europe or European experiences say about it, or what it says, of course, the Council of Europe, whose recommendation is R-2023, is also a basic act under which the Radio-Difusion Act was passed. She's nowhere to be determined that members of the Broadcasting Council can't be re-elected. Of course, if they work in the interests of Serbian citizens or work in the interest of those who have simply determined that they should represent Serbian citizens. That's it. if these members of the Broadcasting Council carry out their task in a manner that is in accordance with the law, if they are professional and do their job well, I do not see any reason why they would not be proposed again. And if they're going to be chosen by the next assembly -- at this point, I can't and I don't want to go in. So there is no possibility that by not giving them the ability to re-election, you will make them work better or more efficiently than they will if they have the right to re-election. You cannot blackmail them by choosing them again because it is clear that in four years, other people will be sitting in this congregation. Maybe some of us, but it'll be different overcompensated. We won't be able to repeat the choices we've had in this selection of the Broadcasting Council. When it comes to privatising local media i.e. The local electronic media, the founder of the municipality's assembly, provides for or proposes these amendments and the additions of the Law to be done by the end of 2008. I do not agree with the bill's proposal, given that the privatisation of local media was due to be completed by 2006. I'm talking about local media, whose founder is SO, so it seems to me that there was enough time to start preparing for the privatisation process. What these local media de facto couldn't do anything before the election for the allocation of frequencies and the granting of permits was called a limiting factor. So it seems to me, and I think I'm right, I'm going to try to convince the MPs and through the amendment that I submitted -- that the end of 2007 is quite enough time to get into the privatisation of the local media whose founder is SO. I'll explain why. So one authorisation process, and it will start from national to regional to local, lasts about four months. On the condition that the Broadcasting Council really works maximum, it can last four months the longest. Of course, it can take longer if these legal deadlines are fully respected. So those who say you can make a decision in 90 days, it seems to me that you can make it in 60 days if there's a good will. So if we were to share national frequencies licenses in four months, then for the regionals in four months, and for the local ones in four months, that's one year. Of course, provided it starts to be shared during this year i.e. to discuss competitions. So, since November of this year, for example. By November next year, local media could get their licenses, of course, those who meet the programming and technical criteria, and uninterruptedly enter the privatisation. So they're going to have a whole year to get into the privatisation process and I think that's enough, and that's how we ended up hearing from the Agency. a representative of the Privatisation Agency, that it's quite enough a year to get into privatisation. Why do we insist on cutting this deadline from 2008 to 2007? Well, first because I've already mentioned that there's been enough time to prepare for the privatisation of local media, the founder of the Assembly, and so far, and secondly not to allow local powers, who don't understand what local public services are right now to abuse the media. So, they experience in many cities, it's at least the story of many local media, that local media are politicians' services, not citizens, that they are obliged to follow what the mayor or president of the municipality is doing, what the directors of public enterprises are doing, that they can't deal with investigative journalism, that they don't invest in the technique of these local media, and we therefore seem to have to set the privatisation deadline realistically and it needs to be speeded up as much as possible, because otherwise we come into a situation where these local media are the longest...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18433	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18434	Yeah. I'll use it. It will be the longest in use or abuse of local political powers, and for that simple reason, so that we can enable them to work uninterruptedly, go to the market and deal with all this really professional and objective journalism, to ensure that they get to that final privatisation deadline as soon as possible. What we are also asking, in this amendment or in our desire to accept in 2007 as the deadline, is that if these local stations, whose founder is SO, are not privatised, are not to be taken away from them by the Broadcasting Council. It will force them to simply enter the privatisation process, not to delay the process to infinity, without any possibility of legally affecting them. And now let me say something about public television itself or public service, or what needs to be a public service of the future. That job that expects RTS in the very process of transforming into public services is really one serious job, and it seems to me that at this point he can be viewed in two ways. If we wanted to talk from a political point of view, we could talk about respecting the law of 2000, which introduces a subscription, maybe it's not politically opportunistic for those who rule, because introducing a subscription when people live badly, when they have small salaries, small pensions, 300 dinars for someone is really a lot, and it's a politically convenient topic to talk about how subscription might not be necessary at this point. But if we speak from the point of view of statehood and what Serbia's citizens are indirectly getting through the formation of public service, it seems to me that there is no reason why we would disagree about it in parliament or why there is no consensus about it among the citizens of Serbia: the necessity of public service as a service that is completely independent of politics, from the influence of politicians who are currently in power, who can sort of blackmail you through the budget, even though I'm not saying it's happening, but I can end up with it. And we have been able to see that if politicians determine the boards of directors, those who will be at the head of these houses, it is possible that it does not represent the public interest of all citizens of this country, and the public interest is to be informed in good time, informed, that this service is impartial in the matter of this part of the information. Of course, the public service also offers something that is much more than information and information, which is that it offers much more quality and much more serious programs. As far as information is concerned, only one segment, but as far as culture, entertainment, sports, education and science programmes are concerned, are also public service obligations that meet all needs of Serbian citizens. Of course, we will not be good politicians if we allow public service or public opinion to create private commercial televisions, because private commercial televisions create opinions in the way their bosses tell them. Of course, we cannot trust the information programme of a private television, which is at the same time owned by one political party, owner and one MP, owner, at least the man thinks, of all rights in this country, that he is talking about what is fair and unfair, and is being sued with the state that he owes 50m euros. Namely, what the state was supposed to get from him. He cannot create public opinion until he explains how it is possible that 300,000 or more thousand euros are given to someone who is his cousin or daughter for a music album. I guess that's how many of the world's biggest album groups get. It comes from a pair of Serbian citizens. The public interest is to explain such things. This television cannot represent public interest, as I do not think public interest can represent another national broadcaster, which deals in a completely legitimate way with what is called entertainment. Of course they have the right to party, of course they have the right to a TV programme that deals with subculture, subculture, but it cannot be the interest of Serbian citizens. It's like you're building a big school that has all the items that you think are important to the citizens or children of this Serbia teach them. On the other hand, you have schools that are private, that have their own programs, that create them as they think they should. These are mostly fun or easy programs or programs that don't match the truth. Of course, the public interest is the comprehensive one, which represents the interests of all of us, and those who think in one way and those who think in another way, with their quality and their independence from politics. It's the essence of public service. Let's not forget, we won't let public opinion create someone whose home is 49% of American capital. Of course, public service must protect the interests of Serbian citizens, to safeguard the spirituality of the citizens of this Serbia, not only Serbs, but also national minorities, and in particular it has a duty to care for national minorities. In fact, that's why public service is necessary. In order for the public service to be all that I've talked about before, he must have a stable source of funding. It cannot be financed differently from the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens must know that if they stand out, they stand out behind themselves, that they will win the best games, that they will get the opportunity to watch the national team, that they will have a school programme. When we talk about public service, I'd like to imagine what television looked like in the '70s and '80s, which is the golden age of RTS. So, the school program, in which was "The Cube, the Cube, the Cube", in which there was a "Music slide", in which there was so much to offer, the school programme that was at the level of the most developed European countries at that time, the educational programme, the documentary programme, and not to mention the drama programme, where one television produced 25 to 35 drama programmes annually that won all possible awards across Europe. So such television is something that could be a public service mirror. That's what we should be trying to do. Now, what about changing and supplementing this law allows RTS not to stop working. Of course, I'd like to just say what's the fact when it comes to RTS. RTS and Pink are competing in terms of ratings. It's a fake. For the first six months, Pink was more visible, and in the seventh month of this year, RTS was more visible than Pink. What is the fact and what cannot be disproved is that the RTS information programme is the most visible information programme on all televisions. It's possible because it's the most objective. It could be an indication that RTS is in a good starting position, so it can transform more easily over the next six months, which is the deadline. So, from what we've heard from the current director of RTS, this transformation process can either end or definitely be ready for a real public service and by the end of this year. I don't think there's any concern what's going to happen next. What we need to make possible with these amendments and additions to the law is that RTS does not stop working so that for a year we can make it, but because it has the greatest qualitative potential, because it has such a long tradition, because it has so much importance for the citizens of Serbia, it needs to be transformed into a public service, and because it has the greatest qualitative potential, because it has such a long tradition, because it has such an important importance for the citizens of Serbia, it needs to be able to transform it into a public service, and because these changes and the additions of the laws enable it to establish what is the legal obligation of 2002, which is to charge the subscription, to enable RTS to survive, to allow it to get in a smooth way into the transformation and to allow what is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, and not to depend on politicians and those currently on the political scene and make the ruling majority. Therefore, public service will have a board of directors who chooses a fully independent regulatory body, will have 50% less opportunities to advertise than commercial broadcasters. Let me just tell you the data, to compare what it looks like in Croatia, which although it is a smaller country and has previously entered the formation of a public service. So they pick up between 140m euros and 160m euros annually. RTS is working with 27m euros today, and in 2003 he worked with 50. This clearly states that the government is reducing the expenditure on RTS because it obviously does not want to interfere with editorial policy and wants the RTS to become an independent body as soon as possible. On the other hand, is it possible for Croats, who charge 95% of their subscription and collect 140m euros, to have a public service that serves the interests of Croatian citizens, and in this situation we count on 27m euros and should be general, objective, independent and produce quality programmes. I don't think that's possible. We're often compared to the BBC. I'll just remind you that BBC is an annual subscription, and subscription or payment of public service services is an obligation for everyone. You can stand out for school, and you don't have to go to school, single out for hospitals, and you don't have to be in the hospital. Only this time, they single out citizens and directly give public service and the public service suits them as they spend money. So, the BBC, as a public service or a parameter for all public services, picks up 1.2 billion pounds annually, and the French public service is over 3.5 billion euros. Of course, they all have extras. The French public service can also be complemented by commercials, since it is necessary to have as much money as possible to be independent. So the G17 Plus MP group will support these amendments and amendments to the law, it believes that respect for the 2002 Law, which speaks of the introduction of a subscription, is something that is necessary and mandatory. Anything we can help, in fixing the media scene, depolitisation, reducing the influence of politicians, but also disabling the tycoon to create politics, the G17 plus will always give its vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18435	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18436	Mr. Wolf, you've been talking for ten minutes, and now you have to wait for us to finish, so if you'll call me back, the Rules of Procedure must be respected. Mr. Wolfie, I'm not smart, you're upset that you didn't get the word, and I explained to you that I have the right to speak before you in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Radeta, if you want to talk to me, that's not at all questionable to me. Today we are in a position to change this law several times after 2002. This isn't the first change to the Radio-Difusion Act, and I'm absolutely convinced it won't be the last one. When the Radio Diffusion Act was adopted here in 2002, we warned of a few things that need to be changed and agreed, in order to come up with a media space in Serbia that will be adequate and in line with some legal regulations. When I say that a few more legal changes will be made to this law if we want to create a media image in the right way, then I mean two questions. The first is resolving cable broadcasters and even cable networks in Serbia, which are not resolved either by the previous law or by these amendments to the laws. In that direction, I think there's plenty, if I may say so, of braked from different sides. The state is not interested in resolving the issue or fearing those who have a dominant impact on the cable network in Serbia, and we know it is Soros property, in most parts of Serbia. So, companies that make a cable network, or simply allow to create an inadequate cable network system in Serbia, which is not good for those who use it, and it's not good for those who take the money quickly, so make that cable network, to get to one position when we solve that issue, that all these people again, all these citizens have to invest in creating a cable network. I remember, that was when we warned Mr. Koraq, who was Deputy Prime Minister, but it was important for him before the summer session in 2002 to pass the law, because if we don't adopt it there will be a disaster in Serbia, he won't see us in Europe, Europe will not see us, etc. Now in 2005, and this law, as we can see, has not functioned in either the previous government or this government. The second question, of course, is the digitisation of the media image in Serbia. I don't think that the state is paying enough attention either, because if we want to be in line with some European tendencies, Europe has concluded and said, on January 1, 2007, there can be no broadcasting of the programme without a digital network at all, and that means there wouldn't be any debates and conflicts like this, and the fear of a large number of media houses, and local radios and televisions, whether it would get a frequency, because in that number, there would be a dozen broadcasters that simply wouldn't be a problem. The Italians even now finance media houses to provide new technology to move to a digital network, and the digital network implies an increase in the number of emitters. When it comes to these concrete changes, of course, the SPS supports them. I have to say, we've been up for a few of these questions before. One question is the mandate, which has been launched here in various ways, the mandate of the broadcasting council. After all, most broadcasting councils have been elected even in that previous government, the same people, so whether by law or not, the same people are here, almost with the general agreement of everyone in parliament, and the positions and opposition elected, and again I think that this legalisation in this way, actually creates one security of the members of the broadcasting council that can end this process, to the end, to enter and think that it is absolutely acceptable and independent of whether we are the position or opposition or the SPS that supports this minority government. The second question is a real veto. I have to say, the SPS is particularly sensitive about that question. She is sensitive because 15 years ago we fought for a single Serbia, against those forces that are simply from the Vojvodina rule of state, not that she had no veto in this assembly, they had the right to veto at all. They made their own decisions, and we simply had to ask in this congregation about every law, every legal project, and one province and another how we would behave. Unfortunately, since it has been 15 years, everyone has forgotten it, so most Serbia was unique, mostly as if it were not an SPS contribution. We'll always stand up, we'll always be against any veto or any omnibus, we'll always be for a single Serbia in every element, not just a declaration, because we think that's the future. Unfortunately, at that time, this was a part of the previous power to install the right to veto and to ensure a vote for this law, and it was thus, completely anachronically, contrary to the law and above all against the Constitution, incorporated as an element in this law, and I think it is very important to remove this anti-constitutional provision, which was in this law, and I was checking, no one complained to the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court did not even react. And that's how it's now eliminated and it won't be in the law anymore, and on that side we're absolutely, if I may say so, satisfied, only because, if anything else, we would support this part. When it comes to privatising local media, I must say that I absolutely support Mr Lazarevic and we will vote in favour of this amendment to privatise the media by 2007. As far as we're concerned, I mean local media, there's no reason to wait until the end of 2007. An explanation of why it should be in 2008, each one moving by year or two, waiting for the next election, and so the previous government, let me not be so long as the elections are, so that when the elections are over, then let the elections be privatised, that we use these local media for our needs. Give one government to have the courage and strength to finish it while it's in power, not to consider how it will be in the election campaign process, to use these media for its own purposes. Now to be precise, that story, the explanation why these media are not privatizing now and not privatizing by some accelerated process, but the need to privatize in 2008, was the following: who will buy media, municipal radio and television, if they do not know if they will get permission to work. Look, then I wonder, out of 113 of the existing such local televisions, how many will get permission to work; they say, 20 or 30. So what it means is that these 90, so where municipalities invest already large funds, they spend a lot of money, and then eventually they figure out they can't broadcast it. Come on, let the private buy it. They say they won't, and they won't, when he invests now, buys a transmitter, and that's how much a TV costs. A good transmitter is how much a local TV costs, and that doesn't cost any more, does it, Mr. Kodedinovic? It's quite clear, if you buy a kilowatt transmitter television, it's how much one local television costs and less. That TV is worth 20 or 30 workers, and it couldn't handle other things. But to be precise, I'm not in favour of removing an item in the local self-government budget for media funding. That's not the point. It should be an item, so it should be the same. Just imagine, there's no gentleman from Triestenik, who's been president of Triestenik municipality for 10 years, and then they privatized that television, gave it to the church, and no one knows how they privatized it, but anyway, they've singled out $12 million a year in one Triestenik for the TV Triestenik, and they used it. Because that TV was primarily directed and financed against the SPS, and radicals, and for nothing else it served. So, for campaigning against radicals and SPS, that's true. Imagine 12 million a year for a Trieste. With six million, the Triestenik could finance several local televisions around and have better program and greater benefit for funding, i.e. informing local self-government in one Triestenik. I mentioned Triestenik, because yesterday I heard a $12 million number, otherwise that's the situation in almost most places. So, I'm not against the budget to provide municipal funding for the media, but then there must be a tender, a programme, to compete with these local radio and newspapers and to get on the basis of their content, based on what they contribute to the local environment, and not on what they contribute to the president of the municipality, regardless of which political parties he is from. I'm talking about local media, we're national, so that's the key difference, Mr. Stamenkovic, and we're not taking part in it. That's when it comes to privatizing those local media. Otherwise, most of us MPs travel through Serbia and travel in various ways of this local media, participate in some shows, and you know how it is. It's in catastrophic condition, to be completely honest. If we wait until the end of 2008 to privatize, so that in 2009 someone invests in these media, to make something of it, it will disappear. These TVs are 15 or 20 years old and like monitors, let alone when it comes to technology and instead of having the opportunity to have two or three frequencies in that space, you can't, because this one spreads to two or three television programs that no one else can look at that space or hear. When it comes to a TV subscription. I have here a stenogram from session 13. 2. In 2001 and this revolutionary speech by Mr Djelic. He gave a revolutionary speech, the real reason is very unique to abolish the fee on the count, it needs to be abolished immediately, which is expected from us, the vast majority of citizens, we promised it, we have to do it now. The second reason is that this tax must be abolished, which is an unfair way of funding RTS, and then thirdly, we see in this proposal the real importance and first step in the reform of state television, all of it was 13.2.2001. Don't think I'm saying this because of the current government, because you're now, too, a year after that, so when this law on broadcasting is proposed, the first law, because these are all changes, Mr. Korac as vice president of the government who said, if we don't adopt this law now, before the annual holidays, the state will fail, we won't be destroyed by Europe, we won't be made by the world, we won't be lost by anyone, we'll lose love, as if they love us very much. He said - that television would be independent, in order to ensure the independence of RTS, as well as in other countries of Europe, public service, unlike commercial services, significant commercial radios and television stations, cannot be exclusively commercially operated, in other words, it will not be able to live off sponsorship, but subscription must be introduced. Right after a year, Mr. Koraq realized he had to subscribe, so I wouldn't read on what he was saying here, because he was saying things about the subscription, and so stupid. Come on, it's stupid, it's nebulose. What are the reasons why the public broadcasting service is financed from the subscription, since in our public it is very often assumed that many MPs here will ask that question? The reason is very simple. Economic, financial, independent service, that's the reason and there must be a subscription. The methods of subscription, there are different They were then defined to send an account to the citizens, so that Churchenjakov was sending citizens' accounts, none of them wanted to call now, of course, so what are you going to do. I wouldn't answer either, he could sue me all he wanted, I'd go to jail if I didn't pay him a subscription. Of course, they knew there was no other way to secure the payment of the subscription than only two, which were studied in the late '90s. It's over PTT, because you can turn off his phone, and over the electric counter, because you can power him off. Both, when you turn off someone's phone or when you turn off their power, it's terrible for an ordinary man. He just can't communicate. The one in the country, if you turn off his phone, can't communicate with children who live somewhere, etc., and God forbid you cut his power, even in a pigsty, Mr. Minister. In fact, I now realized, when this was proposed, and in 2002, when Mr Korać proposed a subscription as a revolutionary act, that we as an SPS and the SRS government had then had a reform and pro-European policy absolutely and that we had actually preceded it several years earlier. So, even in 1997 and 1998, because the essence of it is the exact same thing. There's no change but to make a subscription. I know this is a burden on citizens, but you know how, between funding and budget, I have to say, as Mr. Nikolic says, I must say that I am pleased that you are now confirming, and the previous government has confirmed that we have been reforming in this area. Of course, Mr. Koadinovic, you were talking here about the RTS program. We, as an SPS, advocate and insist on stabilising RTS. The debt that you have not mentioned here since over 20m euros in RTS currently, with taxes and contributions over 30m euros, is something that does not serve both the state and the government, nor us as MPs to finance such RTS. The problem is why the RTS came to this, not the RTS problem, but the problem is just the previous government, which she didn't want to accept the funding model and what, just to prove that she wasn't lying in the election campaign, and it turned out she wasn't running the wrong election campaign and the fake election campaign, she didn't actually want to take care of RTS, so she canceled his subscription, and she didn't find another source of funding. It's not a problem in RTS when it comes to the financial situation. The problem with RTS is something else. I hope so, and I can trust you and Mr. Tijanic that RTS will become a public service someday, but to be honest with me in the SPS in the last five years, we haven't seen it as a public service. I can't see that it's a public service and that I believe that the Dnevnik is a public service, if for example Batic or Vesna Pesic appears. You know what a public service is? When the will of the citizens is respected. How does the will of the citizens determine? In the election. If someone doesn't get anything in the election, he doesn't get 100 votes, and every other night he's on TV, and especially in a public service where citizens pay, it's not a public service. It's an action against citizens, it's hitting citizens in the head. Citizens say - I will not serve him at all, and I serve him every night, because Vesna Pesic is the name, because Batic is the name. Who determines the name? Does a public service or a citizen vote? The citizens have established our position. We as a SPS are satisfied with the number of votes we get, 22 percent. I saw someone today count what our MP is worth, just forgot that the SPS is 10.6 and not 4.9, so we're worth 20 grand. (Alexander Radosavljevic, from the place: What? Mr. Radosavljevic, 20,000 voters. You're old, you've traded easily, you know how it is, the cement store of Beocinska, Popovac and so on, Sartide, you've traded these things. If we have 22 MPs, it's 500,000 voters; 500,000 voters can't show up on TV one night. Who showed up at RTS in the last five years from the SPS? It's not three times, four, as Mr. Nikolic says, I showed up once, filmed the previous night, and then when I saw what appeared after that said -- never again on the photo shoot at RTS. I'm not crazy to go. I did well, how did you go? Of course, it doesn't occur to me that I'm going to shoot, so I'm going to wait for someone to set me up there in a public service. Public service must respect the electoral will. Political parties that do not pass the censorship -- their political will cannot appear in public service. Only the political forces that have gained citizens' trust can be proportionally proportionate. Otherwise, as soon as I see Vesna Pesic and see Batić, I don't believe in public service. God forbid when I see Chad. There's, however, those in DS hard, but I can't see, because it's not a public service. That's the point, and it's the opposite, it insults the citizens. Do not expect citizens to pay their subscription if those who do not have political verification appear in public. It's happening, you can't talk. What was RTS like now? He was the state of things in the state. The state of the country was to fight those who threatened the Serb people and RTS defended the Serb people. What else is he gonna do? What else will state television do, even when it's a public service, rather than stand behind its people and defend it? What did state television do on March 17th and 18th last year? I guess she informed and you stood up for it, it's good to know about the real situation. How was Kosovo and Metohija? What else did state television in 1999 but informed what was really going on. And why was the state television bombed in 1999? Not because of Milanovic, but because she had the only link and because she had trouble informing us from here and sending signals about what was going on in Serbia in the countries that bombed us. When they bombed RTS, they shut down the link, there were no more signals, there had to be a video in Hungary, bye-bye students, it's already late news for the media. So it's completely real. Mr. Radosavlevich, you don't understand, because you would never defend your people and I don't blame you. He has the right to have these political parties, which would never defend his people, and he has the right and legitimate to have these political parties that will always stand in the defense of his people when he is threatened, regardless of the results and the consequences of that in the electoral body. We're acting accordingly and it's not disputed. Therefore, we advocate that RTS become a state medium. We think it should be RTS Belgrade and RTS Novi Sad, so we don't have to come back for that first story about the veto, one day about it, so I think if there is, it would be good for the Committee to propose such an amendment to call RTS Belgrade and RTS Novi Sad, not RTVodina, so that after five, ten years we don't have any new problems in these areas, but in principle when it comes to amending this law, I hope that he created the conditions to finally settle these relations. Although they're not that kind of relationship, they're not as many media and broadcasters as they're told. You remember, there were thousands of people talking about, and now that the Broadcasting Council has collected the data, it's 700. When you add it up as much as it needs to get, it's 500. So, objectively, except for those who have out there in the shed and what we talked about, inadequate technique, and others who have normal radio-television, they can expect they didn't throw money at all. That's why the SPS will support this bill and we look forward to finally coming on the right track, on our way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18437	The speech is attended by MP Milan Stanimirovic, authorised representative of DS-Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18438	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, let's get this debate serious. Every August, this new congregation majority and the government on the wallpaper have amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act. When there is no will, willingness and desire to change this society and change this Serbia, then at least change the law and it is before us again, as in August 2004, the proposal to amend and supplement the Radio Diffusion Act. This is a very serious area that we can talk about with a humorous note, as we heard from the previous presentation, but to remember that the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic then supported amendments and additions to the law at the end of August 2004, and then I also said as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group that DS remains on the line of depoliticalisation of the media space, which is carried out through the formation of an undeniable broadcasting council, and that was the strategic goal of DS. And certainly the formation and construction of a public service involves the fundamental transformation of RTS and TV Novi Sad, as well as the determination of new roles of local and radio-TV stations under local self-government. Of course, by respecting also the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and in order to prevent the chaos that is ruling in the broadcasting or as I then said the radioconffusion that is ruling on the air, which my predecessors have been talking about today, with more than 1,300 emitters in Serbia. That's when I heard from the promoter to change the election, first of all, the broadcasting council is passed, and if the law is respected through this fast procedure, it will be able to establish a new council by the end of the year at the latest, and then the advice will be able to start solving problems in radio-difffusion. It has also been said that members of the council will elect a board of directors, and the board will appoint a director after the competition, and there will be another body that will be very important, which is the programme council. Of course, the law, as then said by the ruling coalition promoter, does not change for the sake of changing the composition of the council, but rather to allow the advice that the Radio Diffusion Act applies. What's worth the law we passed in 2002 was said then, even if it's best if we don't implement it. Now we're going to execute it, once we've chosen the body according to one legal procedure. Of course, there was nothing from that implementation. And now we're back in the situation of amending and supplementing this law and prolonging some deadlines that have already been established by amendments and additions to the law and the Radio-Difusion Act. What's this about? It's about what I said at the beginning, about the unpreparedness to take political risk and political responsibility for changing things better in this country. He simply wants to keep his status quo, and this government is acting like Scarlett O Hara in the Windstorm, I'll think about it tomorrow, let me change today, let me extend the deadlines, think about tomorrow how it's going to work out, or think about some other congregational majority and some other government. I hope this government goes quickly with the wind and that this attitude will simply not be prevailing. Why won't we vote this time for amendments to the Radio-Difusion Act? First of all, because of inaction and non-implementation, lack of strategy. We had the previous NIS Act, the Law on the termination of the NIS Act, when we had almost identical objections concerning, above all, the lack of a clear development strategy in NIS, what would bring about the abolition of the law and how it would go into privatisation. We do not see this strategy here, how it will form a public service in the Republic of Serbia. Here we see one unwillingness to face real problems. For example, by rebalance of the budget, the finance minister has taken the RTS funding off the budget. At the same time, the deadline is extended to finance from the local radio station's budget as the deadline for their privatisation is extended. If the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the budget of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the budgets of local self-government are also the budgets of citizens living in those municipalities. Why would they now lift the funding of RTS with one budget rebalance while extending the funding deadline from local electronic media budgets. So it's not just one of the illogicalities. Another thing, simply RTS, whose idea is to turn into a public service of all citizens, we were present on the Information Committee, representatives of DS - Boris Tadic, when RTS Director-General Aleksandar Tijanic attended, where he praised as the highest-ranking TV and where he received numerous commendations, that it seemed to me at one point that this committee was called to give praise to current director-general RTS Aleksandar Tijanic, who took over national television in a decent financial state, and in a programme sense, to lead to bankruptcy. If it had already been illegally appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was it not possible for it to sit with the finance minister, with the Prime Minister, to agree and see what a strategy for turning RTS into real national television and public service. It's not true, and it's already been heard about this pay phone, a sentence about how it became the most watched television. The first program kept the rating as it was two years ago, the second channel fell from the rating that he had two years ago, and twice the rating has a third channel. Croatians earned 30m euros by privatising their third channel, selling RTL. The value of our third channel, which is to be privatised, is between three and 30m euros. Probably by this drastic decline in view of the price of that third channel, which was to be privatized, it fell drastically. I'm afraid someone did it on purpose so that some who already have private television, who have a significant impact on the media space in Serbia, and who intend to sell their television in the near future, could, on better terms, sell their television than national television could sell the third RTS programme. On the other hand, failure to access the frequency lost national television, and that money could also be used to develop national television and public service. For example, only these three most watched private televisions could at least pay half a million euros for using frequencies and half a million euros for other regional and local television, and this would be a sum at an annual level of about two million euros, which could also be invested in the development of national television. Of course it's not done and it's late, I say again because of the government's inaction and unwillingness to deal with problems. Also, revenues from marketing, which amount to around 14m euros, if I remember correctly, pointed out by the current director of television, also fell drastically. Since September last year, no fees have been paid, and it has already been said that there will be a lot of problems with the functioning of national television. We received one amendment, which was sent to this assembly by RTS Director Aleksandar Tijanic, who proposes a transition fund that would bridge one time between the space when a TV subscription is charged, so that RTS as a national service could function, and the present time. I just can't figure out how this works, and I repeat again why they didn't agree, it's just budget rebalancing that the RTS funding was thrown out. RTS is on its own. And we can't let that luxury run out of something that's public good, national good, like national television. I would not like to take advantage of all the time, a partial balance can be achieved very quickly and there is no need to extend this deadline as regards the deobligation balance between the Vojvodina broadcasting institution and the Serbian broadcasting institution. As for the veto of the Duke's representative, but since I'm running out of time, since I'm hearing a part of the discussion, at the end of the debate, I'm going to touch these questions. I don't want to usurp your time because I used the first 10 minutes. I reserve the right to explain in the second part these other amendments and additions of laws that will certainly not contribute to the arrangement of the media space in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18439	The word is by MP Vukosav Tomasevic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18440	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS parliamentary group will give its support to this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Radio-Difusion, because this legislation improves the existing legislation in this area and will be able to go on finally with the transition processes in Serbia after the adoption of this amendment and supplementation of the Law. In particular, this legislative act involves two significant changes, changes to two of the most significant segments, i.e. in practice to two of the most important institutions in this area, which are the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the public service, or the Republic Broadcasting Institution. But before I argue on a broader explanation of these segments of the law, I have to say that the objections and criticisms at the expense of this law that came from some professional associations and journalists' organisations were absolutely unfounded, that they were not justified, and that we were able to convince ourselves yesterday at the debate on the Committee on Culture and Information, when their representatives did not bring anything really serious out that casts a shadow on the proposal of this law, except for one basic question, which is - are the real deadlines for implementation that determines this law and what is guaranteed that they will be respected? The deadlines are real. What we don't think is realistic, I'll talk about it later, is this deadline for privatising local media, or local stations, which are the founders of the congregation of municipalities. The remaining deadlines are realistic, and guarantee that they will be implemented is the government of the Republic of Serbia and its policy. This government is taking it seriously, making serious laws and seriously implementing them. That is the fundamental difference, and I also answer to the previous speaker, between this government and the last government. This government has found a bad state in the field of broadcasting and here we are twice in a year and a half bringing amendments and additions to the law, improving the law, but we are correcting the practice in this area, unlike the one last government that passed this law in 2002, and that is what we said, it was only pro-form, without any serious intention to implement this law. It happened through the practice and work of that government. I don't think it's appropriate what the previous speaker did to criticise the election of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. This time it was done perfectly legally and legally, unlike the way the previous government did it. I would like to remind you that in July 2002, when DSS MPs were brutally expelled from the Assembly in one hiduciary way, the law was passed, and before that, in one day, a proposal was adopted for the Council to have 15 members, and that tomorrow morning it passed a law with a proposal of nine members. As it came to this and what night's work Mr. Korać, who is not here in the O.R., who was then in charge of the job, and Mr. Andric, who chaired the Committee, has served them with honor. Also, I want to remind myself of how he was elected past the council, especially on the case of that Mr. Radosavljevic or Radovanovic from Kosovo. We brought it here and we showed it, all the media showed it, all of Serbia saw it, that this man did not meet the legal requirements to be elected to the council. Nevertheless, this is where you chose him by force. But it didn't surprise me then or now, it was just a continuation of that Thessaloniki-Borum policy that the previous government and the previous assembly majority led. But to go back to the provisions of this law. The first good thing this law introduces is that the Republic Broadcasting Agency will finally be able to function smoothly. So, from the day we adopt the amendments to this law, the Republic Broadcasting Agency and its advice will be able to move forward and take over all those regulations that the law gives them. This means, above all, to introduce order in the Serbian era, first through competitions for the assignment of frequencies, and then through all the other institutes and powers that the law gives them. It is good, of course, that this law abolishes the senseless, lawless and anti-constitutional right of the veto of a member of the Vojvodina Council. We argued that when the law was passed. We made that public, but we didn't have enough votes to stop it. If anyone, which any legal layman knows, had addressed the Constitutional Court over the past three years, investigated the interpretation of constitutionality, certainly that the most judicial finding would have been that this provision was unconstitutional, and it is a good thing that this law is brought to an end by eradicating this position of constitutionality. When it comes to the second important segment of this law, it is a public service -- I think it must come from the assumption, knowledge and definition of all important factors in Serbia that public service needs Serbia and needs its citizens. I think it is an unequivocal attitude and professional circles, both public opinion and all political factors in Serbia. Also, I think public service can only be reached as it is now done by turning Serbia's Radio-Television into a public service. There are also advocates of another idea to shut down RTS completely and then create a brand-new public service. Of course, it does not take much sense to see and to conclude that neither is economically justified nor rational, nor could it be done within a time frame within which a transition can be made by turning RTS into a public service. I think it should be said from this pay phone that no private television can take over as a public service. I'm saying this because these days we have a public attempt to impose an attitude that a private television can be a public service. Of course he can't. Of course, there is no such practice anywhere in Europe, where the institution of public service works, and even if it could, there could be no private television with 48% foreign capital in its founding capital. So there are no stories about it and only RTS can be a public service. Of course, this is an opportunity to say that behind the attack and the public campaign these days led by private television in Serbia against the establishment of a public service stands exclusively the money, stands the interest and stands the desire and the three private television houses to reach the 15-20m euros of commercial revenues this year, i.e. by some estimates and up to 50m euros in revenues, which is an assumption that public service can collect on a commercial basis for the coming years. That's why these private televisions want us to have no public service and to share that loot. In the world, only two ways of funding public service are known: one is to direct budget donations, and the other is to some type of tax, or subscription. We're now moving from budget donating to subscription, and I think that's two things that matter. First of all, it has been very argumentative and well spoken to by previous speakers, RTS must become a medium of all citizens and must significantly improve its programme. There are certain changes, primarily on the agenda of an information-political programme, but they are insufficient, according to my assessment. This must be improved, both in information and in other segments of the programme. I mean, and it should be some leader of that future public service, where 1,000 people in Serbia are gathered, on any basis, there must be a camera and a public service reporter. Until this happens, and while the public service information program is launched by some irrelevant news, we cannot be satisfied with the situation in that house.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18441	Mr. Tomasevic, do you want to use the rest of the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18442	Yes, I will. The second topic is – and there should be the Assembly and we MPs with the answer – what about the money that has been spent on RTS so far from the budget. According to the data we heard on the Committee on Culture and Information yesterday, it's two billion dinars for this year. I, and I believe all of you respected colleagues, are very interested in the answer to the question of what's going to happen to these money, when we're changing it now with our subscription. There, the resolute minister cannot give us an answer and I do not expect him from Mr. Koadinovic, but I expect from the finance minister. He is not here today, and here I am publicly asking Mr Dinkic, and I will do so in the first next opportunity when he is here in the Assembly, we are obliged to answer the question - what will happen to the budget funds that have been used so far to fund RTS, which will now be free. Whether Serbian citizens will pay less taxes for this amount or will the funds be channelled for another public purpose, for education, health care, etc. So that answer is owed to us by Mr Dinkic. I think this idea of a transition fund, which should solve this interspace in funding, so from the moment the budget funding stops, until the moment the subscription is fully revived, acceptable, and I think that, when we consider the amendments, we need to deal with it a little bit, and in this way solve the problem of this interspace. It's a tricky question, and I agree with that, whether this should be picked up via the EPS. It may be necessary to consider whether there is another way, but in any case it should also be said from this pay phone that it is unacceptable and that the EPS's position cannot pass that they will not work. If this assembly adopts this law, the EPS will have to do so, as everyone else has to enforce the laws in this country. What the Democratic Party of Serbia has objections to, and to what I personally gave the amendment, is a deadline for privatising local self-government's electronic media. With the bill, the deadline will be moved from July next year until the end of 2008. It is too long and there is no need to postpone the privatisation of local radio stations in Serbia until then, without making a difference that can be partially accepted by Mr. Minister's explanation that this is the last deadline. However, the facts point to something else. According to the Privatisation Agency, Serbia has 113 local radios and TV stations that are the founders of local self-government. Yeah, 130? Yeah. So much worse. And in the last three years, as far as the law goes, none of them have started any serious privatisation. In other words, no one's done a "p" since privatisation. It's such a beautiful symbiosis where people in those local cells don't have to work much, they don't have to fight much on the market, and they get money from the budget. On the other hand, municipal powers use it as their propaganda tool. That's what all our community presidents and local officials do, no matter who from which party they come from. Let's look each other in the eye. That is why I am convinced that if this deadline remains this way by the end of 2008, and if only this declarative provision remains, without any sanctions, that deadline may be until 2108, none of them will start privatisation. We heard yesterday from the Privatisation Agency that it is necessary six to 12 months to prepare privatisation, documentation in those cells, so make it a maximum period of 12 months, so by July or August, it remains a deadline of half a year for privatisation to be carried out and I am convinced there is no other reason and there are no grounds for local radio stations to be the last institutions in Serbia to be privatised. If you can privatise all major companies, public enterprises, EPS and NIS, all other factors in this country, then local radio stations can. So, we will propose to adopt on the Committee a compromise amendment that will move this deadline to 31 December 2006, and then another stance - sanctions, which will then be banned from 1 January 2007. The municipalities will not be allowed to use budget funds to finance these radio stations, and we think it's a perfectly reasonable and good solution. There is also an observation that these cells can't privatize until they get the frequency, but we don't think it's established and we don't have to wait for the competition to start the privatisation process, so before there's serious information that a large part of these cells and there's no money, there's no means to get into the frequency competition process itself. There's one problem, and I've said it from this pay phone on several occasions, in these discussions, and now I'm going to say -- there are environments in Serbia where it's simply not possible to print a newspaper, or make a radio and TV program on commercial terms. Those environments, when these cells are shut down, will have a problem. It will run out of local information funds, but that's no reason to extend the deadline for privatising these cells. The solution should be sought in another way. It is necessary to consider state incentive measures that in these environments, which are not economically developed and where someone cannot deal with journalism according to purely commercial conditions, provide state-level assistance, whether through the abolition of the tax, whether through some tax relief or in some third way, we are prepared to discuss and make our contribution that maybe the law on the subject is passed, but that should not be a reason for delaying the privatisation of local media. In the end, I'd like to repeat two appeals that I keep pointing out here when similar discussions are being held. One thing is - I appeal to the Committee on Information and Culture, whose member I am, to open a wider social debate on the situation in Serbian journalism. Unfortunately, the situation in our journalism is not good, and it is high time to open the debate on the subject. I think the board would be the one to initiate such a broader social debate. The other thing is, I urge the Ministry to speed up and initiate the drafting of the journalism code. The ministry, or its media sector, has no more work to do at the moment than that. I know that code cannot be imposed on journalists, their associations. It's not a legal act. It's an act of a different nature, but existing journalists' associations are not capable and have no intention of bringing such a code. When I say this, I risk criticizing the media, drawing on an angry colleague, but I'm telling the truth, and I think that time, unfortunately, will confirm these words of mine, therefore, that such a code of press associations cannot bring it alone and that they need help to do it. Journaling in Serbia is absolutely free. There are no normative obstacles to free expression, for free thought, and that's on the one hand good. It's proof of the democratic path this country is going to. However, in organised democratic countries, where for decades and hundreds of years the absolute freedoms of the media are, there is one limit to freedom of the media, one only possible limit, which is - the internal responsibility of the media and journalists. Unfortunately, we don't have that line. That's why we have one sick journalism, whose products are, among other things, and what colleague Vukic here this morning pointed out. There are two pillars of every public action, including journalism. One is knowledge, the other is conscience. If there's no one, there's no other. If you have no knowledge, you can be safe and not work well, and vice versa, if you have knowledge, you have no conscience, and yet you can't give good results. Personally, in the case of Serbian journalism, I don't think there are any of those two pillars at the moment, there's no knowledge or conscience. That's why we have this kind of journalism. The state institutions are obliged to help Serbian journalism heal. This assembly does so by adopting media laws and improving media laws, which we do today, and the ministry, government and other competent state and social institutions are obliged to contribute to overcoming this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18443	Minister Koadinovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18444	Gentlemen, first of all, I remind you that last year we found a budget that was 3.2 billion for RTS, that it was reduced by 700 million in this year's budget projection, and that later in rebalancing that figure was reduced by another 500 million, so the total figure was two billion. Those two billion were spent. The question arises how RTS will function until the start of the collection of TV subscription. If it starts on October 1st, it is clear that the real financial effects will be able to be felt and expected only early next year. Someone here can say and think - let them go to waste, we don't need them. The point is that from RTS, which has a dramatic improvement in the last few months and a drastic increase in ratings, which is a job that has to be done for years to create something modern and a programme that will suit all citizens of Serbia. The point is, we have a public service that we're going to need and we're going to want to pay. The Democratic Party MP just said -- we need it -- we don't have to let it go to waste, but we won't pay. It can also be resonated. Gentlemen, in all major cities in Serbia, you have something that has entered this Serbia at a small door. I admit that as a minister, I don't know how cable systems spread throughout Serbia, and they have re-netified the Serbian sky. Do they work legally, based on what permission? The fact is, all of you and all of you here, without any problem, are paying that subscription. You won't tell me you're paying just because one of the channels is a porn channel. You pay because these are the programs that you need and which, practically, make you an integral part of life and improve the quality of that life. I mean, I can't believe what MP DS just said. Gentlemen, the problem is that we've found many laws, and I don't believe that they've been deliberately made the way they are, with many shortcomings and fellers. They're why we're going round and round, and that's why we have to change them. It is true, for many laws, it would be good if we had time and opportunities to make new laws. It's as if someone consciously went to it, maybe it's not because of the speed and time factors, to adopt laws that have such fellers that can't be applied. The provisions you've been calling for, the extension of funding deadlines from local self-government budgets, the local media, so you've written, you've adopted, and we're fixing what can be fixed at this point, to enable this law to function. For those of you who say anything about electricity every minute in the pighouse to say that we're all ethers, all together, someone less, someone more, I didn't take part in it, we turned it into a pigsty. Is it possible that you're more interested in that electric counter in the piglet than the pig we have on the air? It is true that many answer that the pig in the air continues to survive, that Serbia is one of the plagues in which they will swim better and manage. We're not going to cheap political points, absolutely not. First of all, we are aware that we must give everyone the same chance, and to those who will be a public service, and to those who will be commercial television, because it will also contribute to reviving the media and the real economic market, yes, and to Serbia's economy. The media is a tremendously strong mechanism for the development of democracy, but also for the development of the market. You should be aware of that. Also, there are many laws that have had to be passed and many specifics to help apply this law. When it comes to the resolutions I'm in charge of, we've been awaited by the Public Information Act and the Radio Diffusion Act. Don't you realize that neither of them could be applied and because they couldn't be applied, they weren't applied, or they were selectively applied, which is worse. He can do something, and he can't do anything. The law on public information - when he wrote those laws when he passed those laws? We don't want to play with the fates of media houses. We were from that period in the early '90s when we fought or some of us fought for the destruction of a media monopoly that meant that this very strong, stoned structure called RTS, went to another extreme, that we came to hyperproduction of the media. With all its weaknesses, it has huge advantages. That's one fortune we want to keep maximum. Also, in all these media houses, no matter how politically they are oriented, if there are such and normally there are, there are a huge number of people who work there. We can't even play with the fates of these people, because the fact is that these people today are extremely underpaid, the fact is that many people are threatening to quit, but it's also the fact that there's something that's a major threat to the profession, which is the unprofessional work of people who haven't been properly through both life and journalism schools. We don't reach these measures to get to cheap political points. We want to fight. We're not gonna make it all of a sudden. Maybe in five years, we'll get one real and complete, quality service. Do not step on the efforts of the people who have made a tremendous effort to turn this stoned structure into something else. That house had over eight thousand people. Why were there over eight thousand people? Well, because everyone hired their own. That house must be searched from foundation to roof, to see how many people there really need to work, but to be aware we can't play with people. In the past few months, people, led by Aleksandar Tianic, have made a huge effort. Don't spit on that effort. It's a hard job, and it's rare for anyone to take that job. Do you know what eight thousand people, who wait every month to receive wages, what's net, what's gross? The question has also been asked what will happen to those two billion, or earlier 3.2 billion that will now be saved in the budget? I'm not a finance minister, but logically, the huge debts we inherited were made before us. It remains in the budget to cover other costs and other dues made by people before us, in the most responsible places. I say, the time has come to pay for everything used. We should, and we will, be aware that many media houses function as public enterprises and have in their composition and newspapers, and radio, and television or some of that. It should have been separated. That's not the problem. That's what we're gonna do. For example, no strategy on alienation of state property has been adopted. Many things have not been done since 2000, many times have been lost, as has been well done. Many things have not been done, so that problems can be resolved more easily. No law on privatization of public enterprises has been passed, no frequencies have been allocated due to the absence of advice from the broadcasting agency, we didn't have enough good laws to wait for us. As far as deadlines are concerned, gentlemen, if we were to think like some former governments and work as some earlier governments, we would be eligible for the shortest deadlines, so as soon as "our people" buy those media houses the money we would find in the usual way. Just the extension of the deadline says that it's not our intention, that our intention is to keep as many good radios and TV stations on the air as possible and to keep as many people as possible their jobs, and to get paid the best they can on that job, to work as professionally as possible. Serbia has a chance, gentlemen, if we give a chance to all those who want to work. So let's not use an empty story and struggle for cheap political points to cloud the general perspective that is good in this area. We have many qualities when it comes to the media and we just need a little bit of wind in the back and at least to be a real competitor for modern-day developed Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18445	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't understand why he was so bile or nervous or I don't know what, I didn't see anyone looking at us, Mr. Minister, who spit on Mr. Minister? You're not with us? Then I apologize, we haven't said a word, nothing bad, it seems to me in the most civilized way possible, so we talked about what's good and what's wrong with the law, I don't understand so much bile, nervousness or anything else. I just want to take this opportunity for a replica, and then I'll go to the place and bring my papers to read what I've prepared for the law itself. There's one thing that's a big problem with our Radio Diffusion Act, which we couldn't even have as an opposition to influence when it was brought in about two years ago, it didn't even occur to us, at the very end of the line, to be quite honest. Namely, what kind of problem are we going to face today? It's a professional thing, and everyone's pretty clear. Namely, the Broadcasting Agency Council will assign space to those legal persons who show themselves as such, but within two months they have to have their own programme, have to broadcast it and have to be on the air. What does that mean now? The introduction of legal inequality. Because if you and I are going to make television as privates and offer as the best possible conditions that no one can offer, and the best possible program, to even create a school programme, a cultural programme, an art program, about our cost to fund it, and give all possible guarantees needed for that, we can't get the frequency, and you know why? Because within two months there is no force that can let it into the air and everyone in this room knows it. Is that so, it is. As soon as you turn on the transmitter, yes, but in a serious way, no one can prepare it. You can tomorrow, but a serious program can't be released tomorrow, because then it won't get a serious place on the market and it won't meet, it won't satisfy, because other things to get the frequency won't be able to satisfy it that way. In fact, I return to the words of Minister Koadinovic, which is why I came out, where he said, they should not be afraid, they should not worry, it is okay that they should neither be afraid nor worry about those who are professionally and objectively doing their job. I'm interested in what criteria are that whoever is professionally and objectively doing his job, I hope that the Council criteria for a Broadcasting Agency will not be as yours, mine or someone else's. That market and the public, it's always been terribly suspicious to me. That was very suspicious of me, because the market and the public, because falsely marketable, you can tell me that the B92 is going well on the market, because now let's go into the dispute and say whether Pink is one percent more visible or not, or RTS more noticeable, it doesn't matter, RTS and Pink are the most visible. May I finish, Mr. Minister, I've listened very highly to you. The developed West is not resting on a monopoly given to some private television and not resting on being sacred cows, and not resting on having to get them because you think they're professional and objective, but because most citizens think. Wait, for God's sake, please, let me finish. Mr. Minister, at least 10 times as much of Serbia's market as you do, I think Palma Plus TV is 20 times more professional and objective than TV B92. Will Palma Plus get a national frequency and TV B92 won't? That's a great question. That's what I'm asking. So that's the thing where we're different and that's the thing of who's going to determine it. And I'm sorry, what is the market and who exactly is going to assess professionalism and objectivity, and that's why I was talking about what public service is. I follow all the information shows, it's my job, and I don't think there's a politician in the country who's more watching TV and reading the newspaper than I am because I'm reading them all, maybe I'm watching them all the same. But I like to watch what's not on the production level maybe, I prefer to watch Palm Plus logs. I would prefer most as an ordinary citizen, as someone who has to be a citizen tomorrow, not a politician or a representative of a political party that has so much and so much to wonder what can have a national frequency. We, when we were in the fiercest conflict with Mr. Markovic's party at the time, were one thing we could never tell him, which is that he shut down the television and didn't want to let those who thought otherwise. That was the problem with the political reckoning at the time. Now I'm asking, I'm sorry, who's going to establish it tomorrow, who's going to say it, and by whose standards it's going to form in such a way a public service. No one's trampling on anyone's efforts. I think maybe that's where you were thinking about someone from DS, I guess not us. I quite accurately and correctly said what I thought about today, about yesterday and earlier, and I mean every MP of the SRS. But let us have our own and what kind of reserves, to have our own objections. As for the pig, Mr. Koadinovic, we quoted, Mr. Nikolic and I, what you, not personally, were saying, but representatives of the DOS. I just want to point out that you said that pigs won't pay their subscription, because pigs don't watch TV, and they don't like RTS. Now I ask you, do they like both RTS, and B92, and Pink, and BK, and this or that, and now they're going to pay. No more pigs? That's right, the pigs disappeared, the cattle stock and everything else, so it doesn't matter how or how. I'm just talking about a different argument, about how sometimes pigs can be used, and how sometimes pigs aren't welcome, and how they're different formulates and relationships. The ratio of the SRS is exactly the same. (President: Seven minutes, Mr. Wolfie.) One more thing, we will not be the ones calling for a violation of the law. We're against a subscription. We think it's a great imposition on people, we think people don't have, I'm talking about poor people, we have, these people don't have the opportunity to pay for it, but we're inviting them to break the law, and tomorrow we're forcing them to go to jail because they broke the law, we won't. Let some others who have called on people to break the law think that. You can never transfer it to Serbian radicals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18447	Thank you. Replica, MP Milan Stanimirovic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18448	Mr. Minister, when I was starting to do politics, I broke up with two things. First, things should never be taken personally in politics, and secondly, they should never be upset about politics. This has indeed been tried in one way, I felt it was very appropriate for someone who has been performing from the position of the opposition political party in this assembly, criticising what the government has not done for these two years since it has been in power. I want to deny here that I said in my discussion that we will not fail national television without paying. On the contrary. I said the next thing I know, it was impossible to get off the RTS budget without providing funding instruments for national television, because it's a safe way to destroy national television and public service. So there was supposed to be a clear strategy. Criticizing with, not having a strategy in one of these areas. When we talk about RTS, we had to here as MPs to have insight into how this transformation was prepared, not only in this sense of funding, whether it's from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or from the subscription, but to know that we have a complex, transparent, armed transformation project that would be presented to the Management Board, employees, trade unions and the public. Then, to know what will happen to the Third Channel, which I was talking about, what about remains of local radio television owned by RTS, what about Pristina Radio-Television, are there solutions to restructure such a significant segment as national television, or public service as is spoken here. You said you found the rules with the fellers and that's why we're changing them. Last August we had amendments and additions to the law to choose the Broadcasting Council, that's what we did. Even DS-Boris Tadic supported it precisely by wanting to create order in Serbia's media space. We now again have the amendments this August, after a year, to amend and supplement the law, which aims to extend some of the deadlines provided for by these laws. If the Public Information Act, as you said, and the Broadcasting Law are inapplicable, then why are we extending the deadlines for their application, why didn't you come out with new proposals for public information and broadcasting laws? You say you know what eight thousand people are? Someone who is willing to take political risk and political responsibility to change this society should be aware that thousands of people are also in large public enterprises, such as EPS, the NIS we have recently discussed, such as the Serbian Railways, where there are also thousands of people we need to talk about, but that can't be an argument for us not to face the problem and to solve it. Where there are a lot of people, then you'll find a big otium in public, so who knows how we'll go in the next election, and then we'd best put it off and buy it as a government time for ourselves and waste our time irrevocably for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18449	Deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic, another ten minutes, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18450	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have brought here, because you have the custom of constantly calling for recommendations from the Council of Europe, various European institutions, I must say that several of their recommendations are made in relation to what you are proposing by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio Diffusion Act. In point (a) of the recommendation to rec-96 10 on guaranteeing the independence of public electronic broadcasting is recommended for governments to enter into their legislation provisions guaranteeing their independence, while in point (b) it is recommended that governments do their utmost to meet the state and local authorities responsible for monitoring the activities of public electronic media, as well as public electronic media staff, with this recommendation. We almost don't have anything like that. In particular, it is pointed out that no provision of the existing Radio Diffusion Act guarantees the independence of public electronic broadcasting, and national and local authorities do not have the right to supervise the activities of public electronic media. What does it look like in our country today? There's another difference about how members of the Radio-Difusion Council behave. I was surprised, though they were unanimously elected in this House, because it doesn't answer to anyone, I hope you didn't mean it seriously, Mr. Minister, the den on the air, and no one wants it, I am counting on all the MPs. It's just that they seem to have taken over on themselves and what's not their job. It's not their job to talk about RTS in such a way, except systemically, especially not to defend the subscription in one way or another. They're a little detached from their powers, I hope they'll return to what the laws and other sublegal legal acts give them as a right and a possibility. On the other hand, we only have the municipal 113 local TVs. The question arises why they are not privatized. There are no obstacles other than formal shortcomings and the fact that the Privatisation Agency is for four televisions, if I'm not wrong, I don't think I'm wrong, you correct me, said it doesn't allow because of what the Ministry of Culture needs to deliver, and because it still needs laws to change, etc. But what's bad for us as a country is that we've only seen the intention in four local televisions, even speculative, to come to privatization. Why? Everyone, wherever they win power, can't wait for that TV to use it to promote their political party, their political options, their own self, their associates and nothing more. Why isn't that going to privatization? Because they are not media that can be supported from marketing, they are media that are supported from the budget. Then so much more independence, I don't know, Kragujevac TV, if they take more money than SO Kragujevac. Isn't that right, Mr. Radosavljevic? But it's so everywhere, it's not just Kragujevac. I said this, of course, a little sarcastic. So, the point is that we try to make the state and local self-government, and we've always advocated it, if you remember, in 1998 and 1999, such proposals at the Law on Local Self-Government existed, that local self-governments no longer finance these media, because they always turn into some kind of abuse and exploitation of these media for propaganda purposes, and spend money that could be used instead of a nice picture of the president of the municipality or the president of his party, to use that money to build municipal infrastructure, to use that money to build road infrastructure, to improve the purity of cities, cities and municipalities in which they live, and to solve the ordinary problems of Serbian citizens. What kind of problem do we have today? Quite realistic, which no one can solve. And how we're going to be privatized by these media outlets is the subject of the Radio Diffusion Act. Who's he going to sell to now, say, TV Bucky Palanca, or TV Kragujevac, or Verbas? Who do they sell to if they don't know if within a few months, a year or a half of that TV is going to get its own space on the air or not? Will she be able to broadcast her program, will she be able to continue her work or not? If you're not going to that, but you're waiting for frequencies to come first, and then you're going to go to privatisation, what are you going to do? So how are you going to know who's going to work after that, how and in what way, and not having that kind of restructuring done? We are absolutely in one vicious circle, which I know neither Minister nor anyone else knows how to get rid of. Nobody knows how to get rid of it alive. It'll be privatization by 2007, it will be, but if someone from the Radio-Difusion Council lets him know, yeah, don't worry, you'll get the frequency. I don't know how else. Right? That sounds to me, and that reminds me again of some kind of corruption. Even though people are neither guilty nor obliged, I'm attacking them now. Not them, but simply any man who does business in the media has to do it. What's a man who's got a local TV bullet that wants to get a frequency? He has no idea if he's gonna get it or not. What do you want him to do with it? And what do the municipalities do? Who's he gonna sell it to? It's just that these are the big problems we're facing. We face the fact that a small number of television stations today want to work objectively. When you were talking about public service, I'm talking about this central one, they should behave in accordance with some kind of public interest. Not to behave as requested by me or as requested by the minister, but to respect some of the basic norms of public or general interest, as you will. It's impossible like this, and now you're going to see, go to the site, say B92, there's the big news. Thanks for that. I like it best when they attack me and they don't know how much fun it is for me and they don't know it's really my pleasure. The only thing I don't like is when they make up someone who's killed someone or when they make something up, and then they lie fat, and then they blame someone else for it. The fact that they're going to attack me really gives me the greatest satisfaction, because my personal rating, the rating party I belong to, is growing up every time TV B92 sets out against us. Do they abuse national frequency? Yeah, she's being abused. They just said, "Wolf's on the move." Hey, I'm headed for a violent attack that they announced that Vojislav Seselj said Vojislav Kostunica had paramilitary units in Kosovo and Metohija. Now they say - their journalist thought it ironically. I'm Grandma Wang, so I have to guess whether he means it ironically or not. Now we're all crazy and we should go to the doctor, and they're very smart. I'm sorry, I can't accept that system. I'm ready with their editor-in-chief and their director-in-chief to take a test of knowledge from all areas. Here you are, Mr. Koadinovic, since you are much closer to them, to organize and to ask questions, to be a hundred, and if there is no relationship in the number of answers 10 to 1 for me, I am ready to withdraw from the National Assembly and from the political scene. I'm asking that smart-ass big guy to accept that, and a genius. I know you'd bet on it, everyone would bet on it, but the problem is, I said this because they underestimate all people, and they think they have the right to lead the hajka and the haranga against every man and every political party. In Serbia, what was before must no longer be allowed. A link of political opponents and media followers should not be allowed. Dragoljub Milanovic's link must never be allowed, ever again. I love it when the minister throws away, it gives me more energy, and it kind of encourages me to talk. So, since Dragoljub Milanovic was lynched, and this lynch was not condemned and never convicted by those involved, he was never prosecuted and prosecuted by any of the bandits who participated in the link. Never did press organizations condemn that lynch. Go out and say, as we went out today and said, that you think differently from what Milanovic's program was.. That's why he can't be lynched. Does that mean we should get together and go lynching those we don't like? We do not want to do it, and we do not think of it, but we will not allow them to seek the link of our people just because they do not like it, to carry out the link over Tomislav Nikolic, to carry out the link over Vojislav Seselj, they cannot, and they think they have the right to do so, to think it is moral and normal. That's what we won't let them do. I'm sorry, we're people, we have our families, we have our own houses, we have our own children, and those kids need to go to school, let them go to kindergartens, and what they need to experience. Do they have to experience what one child experienced, a female child, cut her hair, what you've all been silent about, and some have supported. I don't mean you. I have a daughter, if someone touched her, not her hair cut, now I'm telling you that I don't know what I would do to him and I wouldn't choose the means at all what I would do to him; because that's how I think my daughter's hair is cut. Those media are looking for it, these media are doing it, and these media are doing it today. What is it, making up stories about who the killer is? That's this and you can't be public service. What are our guarantees? You're talking about deadlines. It was two months ago. What's the guarantee for this deadline? There are no sanctions, and who guarantees that RTS will be a public service? Nobody. Penalties for violations are tightened here, said to have been inadequate. How do you know when no one's ever been punished? I'm talking about the Radio Diffusion Act. How do you know they're inadequate and they can't achieve their purpose? It's in the explanation, I don't know if you've read it. That's probably what professional services wrote, and that's something that's absolutely unacceptable. These are the reasons why we won't be able to vote for the bill, and I hope there will be more opportunities for replicas. In any case, we will have much more trouble and trouble until Serbia enters normal times, respecting political opponents and a different opinion. But I hope that in the next few years we can achieve it. This will help everyone in society to be incomparably better and incomparably easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18451	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS, DS andSPS parliamentary groups. But we'll do it after the break. First in line is MP Rajko Baralic. Paused until 14.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18453	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Media, I'm lucky those in the O.R. don't vote for me but for some others, so I'm talking to them, because this hall is empty, half full. There are several important reasons why the amendments and additions to the Law that we are considering today are on the agenda. It is very important to adopt amendments and amendments to the proposed law, because several issues will be regulated, as well as amendments submitted by Mr Vukosav Tomašević and Mr Lazarevic can be supported. First, I want to say, as I said on the Committee on Culture and Information, the Broadcasting Organisation and its advice as a regulatory body should function so that all members have equal rights. I objected when they were elected to mandates from two to six years of age. This law partially corrects it, not entirely. Also, regardless of what I understand the specificity of the Vojvodina, which has the Radio-Television of Novi Sad, which is otherwise in a very difficult and bad state, it is not good that any member of this independent and regulatory body has the right to veto. The right to veto in this way is difficult to explain and explain to anyone who is not in the essence of this problem, but I believe that what would be possible by veto, and by a member of this Vojvodina body, can be solved by correctness and collegiation and by understanding the responsibility of every member of this regulatory body, because otherwise, we would not be doing a good job. So today our authorised representative, Zoran Angelkovic, opened another question about the name itself. It was the idea that these parts of the broadcasting organisation were called Novi Sad and Belgrade, while being a Serbian broadcasting organisation, so that someone would not interpret what he was politically suited to have one, second or third in one country. Of course, that's what I'm saying from the point of view of the political programme of the SPS and those people who voiced that I can talk about it here today. It is very important that we understand that, and I think we can accept that, and I believe that fellow people's MPs from Vojvodina understand that I am not malignancies. On the contrary, I'm trying to be extremely precise about what our political position is about and why I don't think that's the way it should be. Serbia's radio-television should become a public service. She's not that now. We need to make assumptions. Some of it has already been done in a formal sense. What is the biggest problem is the financial position of this now, conditioned to say, of a public enterprise in Serbia, which is no longer formal, but that's how it works, the government has appointed him the last Governing Board, each of us having to take part in the responsibility and I guess he took over when he voted for members of the Broadcasting Council, believing that they would be able to be good supervision of what should be happening at the public service. Otherwise, if AEM and NUNS are going to sit on the radio and the Council, someone's messed up the pots. I remind you that the Radio-Difusion Act was written by Rade Veljanovski. Let them turn to him and let him explain exactly what he meant when he wrote the law, and by the way, let me say that he made a very good living on that law. It can be a topic for others. It is not possible for Serbia's Radio-Television to provide those functions that we expect from national television, and that it has great dubiosis, with equipment in technical and technological terms that is unable to provide what is expected of it. I expected the minister to say here today and not -- Serbia's radio-television in NATO aggression suffered damages of $407.8m. When Serbia's Radio-Television was hit, unfortunately, when people died there, the first bomb fell into the Master's heart. The destroyed transmitters, the link facilities, the radio-television of Novi Sad was destroyed. There's no math that can put that TV on its feet in technical and technological terms, and in any other, and in this 407 million dollars, it leaks out somewhere, it's gone, and it's all the way it used to be. Somebody's got to pay for it. It would be fairest and most normal, only it's not possible now, because one other assembly majority, one government, has made a shameful decision to forgive NATO damage and not to conduct proceedings against the countries that have fed this country, to pay those who have cut short. That's what happens when things are normal, but when they're not normal then they pay the citizens of Serbia. They build the substance more than once. The substance should be expanded, reproduced if possible, but not built every time from the beginning, but it is, unfortunately, the fate of this country and this people. I read somewhere that Belgrade has been bombed 17 times in history and many other cities. I said all of this not because we're not familiar with our views on this, but because of that, I'm going to repeat a sentence from the Committee on Culture and Media, I'm a member there, because I'm a volunteer attorney for RTS in this matter. It now mentions a 30m-euro debt. Well, it's nothing compared to 407 million dollars. It's a little something. So I would ask anyone who understands what the essence of this is to help RTS become national television, that every citizen of Serbia can see and hear its programme, television and radio, at every point in our country. Otherwise, a very aggressive campaign conducted by several major private televisions in Serbia will bear fruit. The RTS would then have had an explosion, it would have collapsed on its own insides, because it couldn't financially withstand what was expected of it. This is what Mr Vukosav Tomaševic was talking about today, between 15m and 50m euros, estimated revenues from marketing in electronic media on television, would have taken over, I will say, of course, with a full name - Pink, BK and B92. No one should have such an interest in Serbia. The first thing these TVs can't provide is none of what needs to be provided by public service. Second, we are not obliged to contribute to the successful business of companies called Pink, BK and B92. That's not our job. That's theirs. If they can, it's their business. Whether they should have national frequencies will decide which organisation is responsible. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think some of them should, but I, like you, don't ask about it anymore and we won't ask each other any more questions. It was regulated by the law. What does RTS have to do to become a service? The moment these funds come and when consolidation starts, a few things, in a few phases. The director of television, Mr. Tijanic, wrote a letter read at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. It's an amendment to the Transition Fund. That, unfortunately, is not possible without budget rebalances or without the projection of the new budget. But also there I said that, in principle I support it, because otherwise they can't function in the way they're expected to. We were just talking about that part of the equipment there is analogous, that what they expect cannot be provided. It's all very expensive and it can't be done without financial resources. Will there be more workers? Well, it will be. Let me just say, when one other director fired 1,100 workers once, that's what they said, it was and it was still the subject of all possible independent news associations. I remind you, in office, while there was a board of directors, whose president was Vukasin Jokanovic, and TV director Milorad Vucelic, it is true that 1,100 people have gone from TV one way or another. It's just, what do we do now that we have 4,500 people to go? I'm just talking to those who forget that there's a weight and responsibility for the political decision and decision in management, and everyone else, and whoever brought him there, there's no innocents. In this story, as anyone changed, so the number of employees increased, so we reached the number of staff in the administration of 27,000 new systematic jobs from 5 October to today. That's what I'm saying for the public. My fellow MPs know that. They've already told their colleagues today what a public service is. Public service, among other things, should have a respect for the legitimate political will in Serbia. When you turn on RTS sometimes you really think - you did not give us God, that Vladan Batic is still a minister, that many others are still ministers, that they visit every time there is one law, rather than ministers of the current government who sign the law. That's not normal. With all due respect, you need to hear one or more sides. It's no big deal to admit that someone lost a political party, lost political credibility, and that they can't, just because they're nice to any editor or any director, or in any other way, that someone has some obligation to broadcast messages from national television that should be seen by 10 million residents. These days, we'll have public advertising law on the agenda as well. He's completely compatible with this law. And I'm going to be a RTS lawyer there because I don't think it's a good hack going towards RTS from big, private media, who are asking that those who have public service status can't advertise and that they can't collect income on that basis. Of course, that right is not given to private media. This right is universal and anyone interested in a potential advertiser should, to the extent that the law provides and allows it to do so. Of course the law will regulate the number of cuttings, the duration of advertising messages, their content, their character, and a lot of other things that have not been the case so far, and that's good. In this sense, RTS, as a national television, needs to get a new chance, to be advertised by serious advertisers with serious products and to broadcast serious messages. I hope this happens and it will help to consolidate RTS financially. These changes and additions also treat the deadline for privatising local media. If I wanted to be good enough for everyone, I'd say everyone who spoke today is right a little bit. Although I don't think that's all of them because that's not possible, but let me just say how these media outlets came into existence. In three ways. Some came from inherited from different periods. Please, Chacan "Glas" in Chačka was founded by communist Djordje Milovanovic in 1937. He changed concepts, changed editors, was banned, etc. Today he is also the parent company for Radio Cačak and Television Cačak. They changed the color of his logo. He's become some kind of felton for some other stories and he's going to be the subject of privatisation today, among other things. Djoka Milovanovic paid for his idea with his life, but this is not the topic here today. Another way to form the media, the socialist alliance of the working people of those years, 60 and some, appropriate decisions, understandable for that time, formed public texts around Serbia, mostly printed, and later created Radio Nis, Radio Shabac, Radio Cačak, Radio Jasenice, Smederjevska Palanka and others. And, thirdly, and most interesting to me are the media that was formed by so-called. The NGO sector within the Association of Independent and Free Cities of Serbia, whose chairman of the Assembly and the Management Board were Velimir Ilic and Zoran Zivkovic, using huge financial resources – Tim Marshall claims $176m, and I don't know exactly, I didn't write a book, he only read it, so much he claims – that media would at one point have a certain political and any other role. I remind you, there were media that were getting, say, "Free Europe" coded drawings that were able to re-air only the program of these cells. Not to mention, my Chacans know what I'm talking about. There are some people who took that chance and I don't blame them for it, I mean I know it. Today, some of these media have been in disquiet with local self - administrations, for they have failed to send out what their former sympathies and financials have been, and today some of them have been promising, or have been able to promise, without being able to do so today. Among these 113, 62 are in this status that I'm talking about right now. They've invested huge financial resources. Some of these media are seen in over 50 municipalities of Serbia, with three or four transmitters each. Some are illegally networked, so they cover the entire territory, and without any control, they do some work that is not possible under any existing or new law. However this thing ends, they'll either disappear or become private property sooner or later. Yet I belong to those who express fear, not the first time. When that happens, in many parts of Serbia there will be no media, because some will not want to buy. And these citizens will not have the opportunity to be properly informed about what is important. What's the big deal? It's important when the city, when the flood is, when it's a swine fever, when there's an epidemic, when other and difficult circumstances are like, unfortunately, we face almost every day. Is the media that has a program that, above all, is commercial, that plays music, that people like me and many of you, that they will have that interest, I don't know. I'm afraid this operation will work, and some of the patients will welcome this where it doesn't belong. Television subscription -- how can I say, five years I've been waiting for this "penal," but now I can't miss, I have no right. Take a stenogram and see what we've been saying about it. Every turn on citizens and cheap propaganda, all tricks always come back at a higher price. Those who promised to shut down one television, so that these others, whom I was just talking about, would become big and national, were wrong. That's not good. If only some of them didn't think I'd forgotten. Three frequencies have been removed in the adoption of the law in the original version. I watch carefully what happens here, and I'll let you know, when the time comes, what happens to the frequency of channel three of RTS and what happens to two frequencies in Vojvodina, as long as people don't think we've forgotten what this is all about. Who had the right to guarantee in 2001 that they would get a national frequency at the expense of those I'm talking about? Did the people of Vojvodina then rebel, and did they think that there would then be a threat to the possibility of correct and valid informing in several languages, as the rules in Vojvodina say, once those two frequencies were removed? Maybe someone doesn't understand what I'm talking about today, but I speak an understandable language. In 2001 and 2005, it was premeditated murder, and three frequencies disappeared the way I described it. But that's the way. The SPS could, with regard to these amendments and the additions to the law, ignore all of this that was said here, not the vote, to say that this or that. No one has the right, because of their children, to provide conditions for normal national television that will have normal production. He said one colleague this morning and I thank him very much -- in the golden time, he said, in the '70s, the RTS school program was such that we could be envied by many in our environment. Well, there's no school program anymore. There's only Harry Potter in this country. The Serbian language programme expelled Petar Kocic, Svevan Sremac was expelled. What's this about? It would be good if on television we could finally see something normal, that our kids there could learn something. To learn the concepts, to get to know areas, to meet wonderful people, to get to know literature in a way that is normal for that and to grow up. Unfortunately, that's not happening right now. When a law on public advertising is passed, to stop advertising messages with sexist content, because it is really not normal for a single father, with his daughters or with his mother, to stop on national television and on other televisions, in a term that is the top term - 20.00, 21.00 – one decent father, with his daughters or with his mother, cannot follow the same TV program. I risk being declared conservative, but that's not normal. I don't comment on what's going on on Pink and on another, it's not my problem, it's private television and it's watching who will, but by the way, the courtesans in the public houses are more comfortable than what we look at on the shows broadcast "Pink," in terms that are at 20.00, 21:00 and 22:00. I don't have a problem and I don't risk anything when I say it. I've said it before. So we are responsible to prescribe rules of conduct in this area. I have full confidence in the Committee of this Assembly that follows this area and I have full confidence in the MPs who will have the strength to bring this here today, in a way that no one has any harm. Especially please colleagues and colleagues from Vojvodina, I fully understand the very difficult situation in TV Novi Sad, but please understand this about veto rights in the best possible way, the most well-intentioned possible argument I have offered. It's not about taking someone's rights away. On the contrary, when someone has the right to veto, he has more rights than those with him in the same regulatory body. It's supposed to be a principle, otherwise, one of the important principles is that they have the right to be different, but I guess no one else ever contests the right to be the same. In this case, it is very important both for one and the other television and for all citizens of Serbia. I hope we understand here that Serbian citizens are not opposed to television, but rather something else. In the end, it is an unsustainable claim made by Mr. Koidadinovic that there are no legal instruments to regulate relations in cable TV, their functioning and their existence. As far as I understand it, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Capital Investment, because that ministry is responsible for issuing permits for this or for that. I'm asking you and I'm checking my knowledge, there's a colleague here from Telekom and the post office, what's the fourth channel of Telekom's concrete tube for? Why is this channel not used to make cable television in a regulated way? Why is Serbia allowed to bridge with the gaits? Try to build a small house on the village floor to put the tools away there and make an electrician there, to have electricity. It won't be possible for you, because it's the opposite of the Construction Act, Mr. Schumartz. But in every town in Serbia, there are three of them in Cačka, each one of them from a soliter to a soliter as a spider's web can crucify cable television. Does it mean that in Serbia Soros can do anything, if we have the strength to say, Soros can't do it in Serbia anymore. One more thing, if I signed a contract with SBB, which is Soros's television or any other, or any other cable TV operator, and if he has in 50 channels and RTS, how is it possible for someone to charge me for the same thing twice? We will vote for this, but I urge all citizens to exercise their right in court, or it is impossible for cable television to work the way it does now or it is impossible to collect television subscription. He can't do it twice. The second question is that some of the emitters pay to find themselves on the SBB because that's how they increase their ratings, because they don't have their own network, they don't have relays, they don't have transmitters, so that's the principle of reduction, it's a completely reverse thing. So that thing has to be solved. If he can't formally, I'll ask a parliamentary question, I don't know who's in charge, I guess the government will be in charge: who and how does he regulate the functioning of the cable system in Serbia? This is impossible and unsustainable, there are huge funds pouring in, citizens are motivated, immediately to say, I'm not against cable TV, that they use these services, but they have to function like any other firm in Serbia, that they register in a legally prescribed way, that they don't have cables like I described and explained, but that it goes in a normal way, as it would be normal for everyone else. If Telekom no longer has the right to do so in the air, but has to dig, drill, increase its costs, then neither can cable television. If it's not someone else's, then it's not even cable TV. I think we understand each other about this, and I think we have an agreement on this, because it's very important that they function the way a farming cooperative or the largest company in Serbia works.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18454	The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18455	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act before us in the National Assembly are because it can't, or it can't, or there's nothing to apply the law with, and that's why this is from the beginning backwards. When you have a law that cannot be applied, then you can do two things: the first is to pass a new text of the law, and the second is that this National Assembly calls for the responsibility of the executive authority to follow and apply the law, so it asks why you haven't done it. What was offered to the MPs is nothing in between, not to the benefit of the media as a sectoral policy, and unfortunately, it will not benefit RTS either. Why did this law prove that there is no one to accept it and that there is no one to apply it for these two years and in the mandate of the previous government, until we chose the first assembly of the Radiodifuse Council. As pointless as what we are now doing as MPs, I will give you in the case of the law passed by this assembly, it is the Law on Railways. In fact, news has been released on TV Pannonia for the weekend that the new Sad - Beška railway will, of course, suspend traffic without anyone providing alternative transport to the citizens of Beška, Indjija, Čortanovac, Banstola, until Novi Sad, which does not apply Article 71(3) of Item 2. The Law on Railways and Article 73. Will you bring amendments and additions to the Law on Railways in this congregation because someone will not apply that law? I asked Minister Velimir Ilic why the Law on Railways and Obligations for Alternative Transport is not applied, if the railway around Valjev can be remounted, why can't it, then, when the railway is remounted to Novi Sad - Beška. The railway is just as public sector as the media, i.e. the broadcasting space. But it is also evident from our discussion here that it is not only about the order of the media, that it is about our picture, that it should look like national television, which again shows the government's incompetence, because the only one who has to offer what it should look like is the restructured sector, therefore, the future broadcasting institution of Serbia and the Vojvodine broadcasting institution, is the minister of culture and information. Instead, we heard the minister here how difficult it was for him. I believe it's hard, but there's a simple way, then you don't go to elections, you don't grab the power, you don't yell, we're gonna do it easy, because it's really hard, because it's not about eight thousand people working in RTS, it's about eight million people working and living in all of Serbia. So on a similar case, as much as we argue to compare RTS and one part of the railway Novi Sad - Beška, but essentially it's the same, someone has not applied the law and no one is responsible because the law is not applied. The National Assembly, whatever image they have of it, about the MPs, about all of us, in the public of Serbia, but we make laws, and citizens of Serbia don't see those laws applied in reality, except for certain fiscal ones, which, when they see, they get angry. At least they were applied, and that's where I think about VAT and everything that's been applied to the area of finance, and it's not applied to the media. What was the basic idea of these changes was not a subscription. So it's unacceptable for the minister to show up here and talk about changes and additions without saying that the government has given an amendment to the subscription. So someone remembered somewhere in the meantime, some people, to amend and supplement the laws they sent us, so where the point is to change the mandate to the members of the Broadcasting Council. Where the essence is shortsightedness, your apparently common decisions, not to read first what the Radio-Difusion Act says, when it comes to the special rights of a member in the Vojvodine broadcasting council, and not to read the law when it comes to defining broadcasting institutions. Serbia has two public services, a broadcasting institution called Television of Serbia, and a Vojvodina broadcasting facility. The minister didn't offer to change that. This remains in the law, but the minister offered to abolish the right to veto, and that is the shortsightedness that this assembly sends with a message that a representative of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Council has the right to veto only decisions concerning the Vojvodina territory, just because multilingualism, multiculturality must be ensured, which you must send a message that people who do not speak our language have a space of freedom in which they will certainly be protected. Instead, a short-sighted message is being sent from here that it is now the return of the rights of the equals, that Vojvodina has something more. We saw it in 1990. I can ask you now, not because I live in Vojvodina, but because I would see it and not live in Vojvodina, don't do it, because there's no need, because it's clear in the law that the obligations of a member of the Radiodifuse Council apply exclusively to someone not to think about it, and that's that protective mechanism, the European standard, to prohibit broadcasting in minority languages. This law on broadcasting must give space to a member of the Broadcasting Council that, in that case, when it comes to the territory of Vojvodina, he says: this is what I veto. Of course, any government in the public service will be careful to do stupid things. That's why I'm warning you this is shortsighted. Such a provision regarding the Vojvodina is on the verge of being treated as a completely unreasonable move. The subscription, it's a mechanism that exists in different countries. I can quote everything in Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. There is no, they don't know about it in North America, there is, in Asia, in Japan, in very few countries in Africa. The subscription is essentially public consumption. It represents the state's decision to set a fee for you to own a TV receiver, as this assembly has decided on a taxi to own a weapon or to own anything else. We didn't talk about it. We talked about the program, and by that you see that basically through the subscription, it breaks the announcement of a discussion that we've never had, and that's the story of whether in 10 years, between 90 and 2000, anyone has the right to behave on television in the way it behaves on RTS. That's not what we talked about. We now have more atmosphere of individual events, both in these discussions of ours and otherwise, which should certainly be tried to prove that they all had the right to political evaluations for those 10 years. No, because they wouldn't have lived like this if anyone had been right, but it's a topic for another point of the agenda, not for the Radio-Difusion Act. So what's important, when it comes to the subscription to say, is that you can't have the subscription as an electricity tax, for at least two reasons. It's a tax on the possession of a TV receiver. I can pay either directly to the tax authority or to a special organisation, the authority that the state makes to pay my tax obligations. I'm someone who wants to pay taxes, and as usual in Vojvodina, which is the custom, first all the bills are paid, after what's left. We and when we're alone, we get in line. So I can't have another public company charging money for a favor that this public enterprise has nothing to do with. The minister said and this is the biggest self-indictment I've ever heard of this speaker at the expense of the government, which was said by a member of the government, except for the self-indiction made by the Prime Minister in a sentence that read - modernization, how hollow it sounds; therefore, the minister said it must be an electric charge, because it is the safest way to realise it. So, the minister doesn't say -- he doesn't know how to do a broadcasting facility, RTS to collect a subscription. People won't pay the subscription. This is the safest way, I can turn off his phone or I can cut his power. A greater self-indiction for a non-democratic character, the incompetent executive authorities have not heard of this pay phone. It immediately provokes the question - and then why don't I pay rent at a gas station, why not pay gas bills in Infostan, why don't I pay my phone somewhere else? So, this is evidence of a lack of preparedness to really restructure the future RTS broadcasting facility and the future Vojvodin broadcasting facility. What's important to say, when you call for a subscription as an institute in other countries, and you can also check it on websites, so, BBC as the oldest house, as an example with a subscription, collects 10.6 pounds a month, BBC itself collects and all TV houses collect themselves. Whether it's a postcard, whether it's incasant, that's something we had. Before 1990, we had people gathering from house to house. I wish the minister had thought about it, because it would mean that he could collect a subscription and it would mean that he hires some few thousand people for any salary they would work for, just collecting, and then it would mean that RTS can separate some of the funds for themselves they're going to say about -- those are the costs I have to collect a subscription. For BBC, for example, when parliament determines the amount of the subscription, because in Great Britain Parliament does it for a period of four years, then they say - of 10 pounds given by the British, how much is spent on BBC First Program, BBC Two, on digital TV channels, etc. Of all the stories about whether RTS is in bad shape or not, I think it would be worth one polling committee on what happened to the RTS budget and in the period 2001-2003 and 2003-2005. There's no better way to determine if anyone can spend our money together properly. The last topic and the reason why we're going to be against it is to plant the division of frequencies as things of crucial national importance. It is an elemental obligation of the minister, who pleads to deal with this, that he knows it's technology, not that it's about frequencies as a national treasure. So, the point is that Serbia has analogue technology and that's why it has a small number of frequencies. The moment you move into a society that has digital technology, the number of frequencies, so on. Nationals, however you like, don't ask yourself as a question, because you can have as much as you want. You also have a non-application of the law because there is no frequency plan, which has no decision on how to privatise the media at the local level, and no one has prevented this ministry from doing all these jobs for the last two years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's being planted by the government's amendment to change and complemented that we'll practically never see where it is again, whether 2.4 billion or 3, that nobody knows in advance. I'm giving you an example that in Great Britain, the British Parliament brings in what is the amount of the subscription and when it can be changed for the first time. I'm sorry we didn't have a full report of what we wanted with RTS first. I am even more sorry about shortsightedness when it comes to provisions concerning a member of the Vojvodine Radiodifuse Council, and I am most sorry that those who have come to defend the law, and many of us who attack or defend it, have not read the law honestly. The topic currently in the Assembly is very interesting, and I think it's also an issue for the committee of inquiry. So the real motive and intention to change these provisions are neither freedom of the media, nor order of the media's space, but the interests that we are essentially not talking about in this congregation. We'd like to see the board of inquiry, so it'd probably be about those interests, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18456	Replica. Here you go. I'm sorry, I didn't run the previous section of the assembly, so I didn't follow. Who answered first? So, Mr. Vucic, a replica of Mrs. Komic's exposure, then Mr. Tomašević, the authorised representative, to the exhibition of Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18457	I'm only going to do with the veto rights of Vojvodina's representative at the Broadcasting Council because I said it was an initiative of the SRS MPs before anyone even filed a bill on amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act. Namely, on the Committee on Culture and Information, the members of the SRS asked to submit a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, but not to do so as a party, because when we submit, then it waited two years in the waiting room at Slobodan Vučetic's. It does not occur to him to solve anything on this matter and to provide any answers. That's why our proposal was to do it by the Committee on Culture and Information, but here came an even better solution, that something that we think is very bad, both politically bad and unconstitutional, to be removed in this way. Why? You're saying it's a short-sighted and unreasonable move, because it's lifting the right of someone from Vojvodina. I must say that you have no right to say that on behalf of all the citizens of Vojvodina, but the works of the citizens of Vojvodina and less of the citizens of Vojvodina, than we have the right to speak, and I don't think they're being abolished by anything. It's not a question of multiculturalism, of more nations or of what, it's a question of only the Vojvodina. For God's sake, we in Belgrade today have a higher percentage of national minorities or non-Serbs, if you will, than we have in Vojvodina. What are we gonna do about it? Did we give up Kosovo and Metohija when we talked about it? I don't think that's true at all, and this is one policy that says that we have to have the same relationship, and the archin, according to all parts of the country, that the same relationship should have broadcasters on the territory of the Vojvodina. This Karadzic is not smarter than everyone else, so we cannot protect the one in Boro or members of the minority in Novi Pazar, but that is why we can protect some others, because this one genius has appeared to veto some decisions concerning Vojvodina broadcasters, or it will concern anything broadcast in Vojvodina or be seen in Vojvodina. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable and that's not true in the end line. It is not good to hear from the congregation speaker that the National Assembly is depriving the rights of minorities, people of other religions, other nations, or any other minority groups, because it is simply not true. This is about establishing a normal regime, a normal relationship, if possible. It has nothing to do with that subscription part. We think a lot worse about the subscription than you think, etc. It concerns only this issue of the Duke. This means that only those that Karadzic will say – and this is the prominent separatist and autonomist, the one who did not allow anyone to appear after 5 October when he got his hands on television, except for his informants and anyone else, would now manage and do what he wants and decide – that there is no appearance, no appearance. You've done it in practice now. (President: Time. Thank you, Mr. President. Toma Nikolic visits Central Banat, does something for Central Banat, it's news in front of sports, and it's short news, although the RTS team has been with us all day. It's even twice as long in the Belgrade TV log as Novi Sad TV. What are we talking about? Because it is under the direct control of the province's authorities, the Democratic Party, Karic, Kasa, Canka and who else is in it. It is something that is absolutely unacceptable and that is why we want equal rights for everyone, equal relations with everyone, that all citizens of Serbia are equal and I think it is the best possible message. And everyone in Belgrade and in every other part of Serbia must take care equally of information in minority languages, respect for the rights, culture, traditions of minority nations or minority confiscation groups or other minority groups. I'm absolutely certain of that and it's not good that you're trying to find some who are God's people to abolish the rights of national minorities. I am sure that those are not in the Serbian Parliament, I am sure that they are the rights of national minorities and that they are respected in this country, in accordance with the highest standards of international public law, European standards, and I think that is the message we need to send from here. That's why it's not good to politicize it, so now I'm going to draw the votes of part of the minority, and you're left with bastards towards them, don't happen to be members of the Hungarian national minority or of the Romanian, Russian or any other, Slovak, to vote for those radicals, because they would have suspended someone who would actually forbid that program and those emitters that he doesn't like, or that you from the Democratic Party tell him that he can go, that he can, which you say he can't, you can't. That's what we want to change. Equally for all, law and justice for all, that's our principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18458	Same rules for everyone. Please, for the next three minutes and 15 seconds, it's tolerance, but it's really impossible for the chairman to tolerate it. Replica, Mr Vukosav Tomaševic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. I'm taking the opportunity to inform everyone, according to Article 85(6), today will be done by the end of a principled debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18459	Mr. President, I was one of those speakers who defended the position of this law in the morning that was abolished by the right of veto to a member of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Council. Since Col. Komic called it shortsighted, I have to explain. First of all, Mrs. Komic, you're a lawyer, I'm not, and that's why I didn't use legal arguments in my discussion. I apologize, then we are not lawyers, but ask any serious lawyer in this country, all the serious legal authorities who spoke on this subject clearly said that this is an anti-constitutional provision and everyone agrees that anyone has launched an initiative before the Constitutional Court in order for the Constitutional Court to abolish this provision in law. That's the first thing. Part of the argument was taken from me by my colleague Vukic, but I have to repeat, I think we have the same facts. Not every time you defend your autonomous policy in Vojvodina to manipulate the fact that Vojvodina is multiethnic, as if it were just like that in Vojvodina. For your information, Vucic said, and it is true, in Belgrade it is percentage, and perhaps even in absolute terms there are more minority members than in the entire Vojvodina and there are more minorities than in Vojvodina. You're about 16, and there's 56 here. There are other parts of the country where multiethnicity is more generally pronounced. I come from one part of the country with such a population, so none of us are referring to it, only you are calling on it, a team before it is entirely true that there is no serious political force in this country that intends to deny any rights to national minorities. This government, this assembly and all relevant authorities and officials in this country have been proving this by their behaviour in recent years, and Serbia is fortunately ahead of the Balkans and in the environment by the rights of national minorities. Perhaps you will find some miserable and peripheral politician in Serbia, perhaps it is your allies Canak, Batic, who may be your faction, Cedomir Jovanovic, who may be the people who put themselves in the service of Milo Djukanovic and his failed apparatus to break up the state community these days. But that's your problem, that's your coalition partners. Don't manipulate, don't deceive the public of Serbia with that. Finally, since you respect that your colleagues do not read the laws spoken of, at least give yourself the right, or obligation to inform yourself completely about the subject you are talking about. You said there was no subscription in North America. Right, but you should know there are no public broadcasting facilities in North America, no. That's what exists in Europe. In North America, radio and TV stations formed in a completely different way, and today the situation is very different. Of course, where there is no public service there can be no subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18460	The word is according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic. I can see that many MPs still don't get along with those basic numbers. So, wrong interpretation, article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18461	Both MPs, colleagues, have been identified for themselves for known reasons. I've never qualified or disqualified. I've given a valuable view of something I find short-sighted. The right of protection is acquired, and that is why it is important for me to say so, because we will have strong speeches about it when we adopt a new constitution of Serbia. It's simply a protective mechanism that you of your will as most say they have minorities, that they have women, that they have disabled people, that there are any groups that are different in any way. You say we don't have to do this, but we do. Yes, they do. Whether women are minorities. In the places where it's decided, where it's done and where there's no money, there's most of it. So to create a protection mechanism that you show this social group that there is one dose of security for them and that is this provision in this article. That's why it's shortsighted, and that's my value view. What's important is that I make it perfectly clear, when we talk about our reasons against the adoption of these amendments and the additions, it is, I will repeat, the government's unwillingness to come, sit down and ask why no one has done anything. Why wasn't the press privatisation manual made? Why didn't the frequency plan come up? Why aren't two alternative strategies made? One of us MPs was talking about the cable network. The whole of Europe is in a cable network. The cable grid's good. It provides a choice, gives freedom to people who watch television programs. Freedom is good. How much is that gonna cost? If you look at the number of cable TV subscribers in Serbia, it's quite significant. So people are willing to pay for freedom of choice. Don't let us here, standing together behind the pillars of defence of all freedoms and rights, we say, if you get a subscription to the number of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. It won't work and it's shortsighted. But for that you should not answer the MPs you support, and I ask you not to recognize yourself in this, just trying to clarify the position, so you do not answer the MPs who support the ruling majority, for that you must sit here as Minister and Prime Minister. I hope, according to the Rules of Procedure, that there will be an appointment of that famous day when the government or at least ministers will come to answer directly to the questions of the MPs. It's a topic we're working on together, you from the ruling majority if you want, and we by nature things with them. You are not of the ruling majority responsible for the application of the law, nor are the opposition, but they are. With this bill, they get out of there and let us open up topics that are not the place when it comes to changing and supplementing the Radio Diffusion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18462	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic, who is not here right now. Please inform him. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic be prepared, and then Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18463	Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister who represented the Government here earlier in the afternoon on this bill is not interested in this bill, and those present in this room probably know very well what it is, so that I do not repeat what my predecessors from the SRS are instructed not only about this bill but also about the concept of a broadcasting regulation, I am talking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are monitoring this transfer, to give some initial information, to understand what is being debated here today. Today, the most serious form of pranks can be discussed in the Republic of Serbia. These pranks have their own history. I don't want to go back a few dozen years, but if we start from this assumption that honey and milk have been flowing since October 5th, then from that date to today, I'll let you know what's been going on. All the government did during this period was European, reformically, on the concept of democracy and using other words, and as a rule they were used by people who did not know what those words meant. So this morning we had a chance to hear from the minister, read what's in the stenogram, "the status of the public service depends on the first dinar from the subscription that comes to Belgrade Radio TV". Tell the minister it's nonsense. I apologize to the viewers. But the status of a media public service depends on whether or not the subscription came to the account of that broadcaster, that could only be said by a man who has no idea what the word "public" means. I don't know why this television didn't have the status of allegedly public service at a time when Vukas was the director, Mitevic, Vucelic, Milanović, Church and this JUL's guy today? It's always been a public service. I guess the public service is interpreted according to what those two words mean. They mean that what it is about the organization of the state, and "public service" is unnecessary for you to use as a term because it is a matter of general interest. You've completely relocated the matter and the problem of this law. This is an extremely bad law, which was passed in 2002. The minister says he doesn't know who passed the law. You know, that law brought DOS. Who wrote - the watermelons, the journalists' associations, anem. Who defended it - Zarko Korać, and this law and the Law on Public Information. Both laws are bad. Why? Because they don't have a concept, they already have a papaziania, a mixed something. Why mix it up? To fool our public, as democracy has come. Democracy didn't come. Nothing in the media sphere has changed, and that's why I just said, "What is this epochally brought by the Church?" Nothing. What did the Tianic bring epochally? Nothing. The one before him provided his advertising agency, and this provided for himself the right to decide every month on how to schedule 900,000 or who knows how many dinars, so that veterinarian who runs the morning program and 50 or 60,000 gives a month for the hairdressers, and the cameramen have no salary, and you assure me it is a public service and it will especially transform when the first dinar of Radio-Television Belgrade comes from the subscription. You can see for yourself that it has nothing to do with itself. Why is this done? It's precisely to preserve a political domination. But with you, the Serbian Radical Party has always been guilty. It was her fault when she opposed local communities, local self-government making its so-called. The local state media. If local media is made, they should be private. That's when you attacked us. Together, when she took off the SPS, she reached out to their media and said, "Now it's a public matter." You funded, and then you said it had to be privatized within a few years and now it's not law-abiding, but you're full of democracy -- a reform course, all according to European standards. Why didn't you privatize? No media has been privatized by those covered by the Radio-Difusion Act. Shall we keep talking? Serbia's radio-televisions, according to the law, prepared everything in 2002, left notices in January 2003 according to that record and was due to start with a subscription in February 2003. Who hasn't passed the law - Žarko Korach. Why couldn't you have charged the subscription? You shouldn't have because you'd be welcomed with the tojags in front of the apartments. Why? Because you criticized the tax. You've entered a television subscription, and you don't have any elaborate mechanisms to charge. How? I hear some smart thinking - so it's understood that everyone has, and those who don't have to let RTS know they don't have a TV. Please, where can he go? The Serbian Radical Party said the state should have one radio and one television programme, these two channels should be privatised. No, it was important to you to dominate, which is important to you today. The Radio Diffusion Act has been passed and local self-government, although you write in the law that local media must be privatised, has formed local state media. You've got that situation in Paracino or Turkey. There's been talk of this case for years. What are we talking about? You say it will become a public service. And what do we expect from this public service? We expect something that is expected of all media, something that regulates the Public Information Act, to be in the sphere of the information programme objective, timely, to truthfully communicate information and independent of the property form of any media. Well, it's a professional relationship to some business, but you don't want to talk about a professional relationship, you want to talk about domination, and now you have RTS, which is no longer run by the DOS so openly, but is run by NGOs. And as Tomislav Nikolic said, I was on a television show in RTS, as if I were in B92; and the scene, and the questions, and the faces, and the recording and the recording, and the tearing and the makeup, everything is the same. You say, you from the Democratic Party, you've passed a great law, but here's to remind you -- there have been disputes over the election of members of the Broadcasting Agency Council. Well, you've made the motion to vote to resolve some members, and when the time came for the vote you voted against. And now they're changing the drawing provision again. Let me remind you, it was funny when we picked members of the Broadcasting Council a few months ago, because she was the weight here, so the president went looking for someone to choose for three or four or five years. Well, that was funny. Well, of course it's funny if one organ has nine members, and eight of them have one right, and the ninth one has extra rights. Well, of course that's contrary to logic, to the brain, not to talk about law and anything else. It's the wrong concept of the law. The minister complains that he doesn't know about cable TV and this stuff. Well, let him ask Sorosch, so he brought him. Let Sorosa, Sonja Licht, independent, non-governmental and not Kodedinovic's organization ask. Well, you know everything. Well, they're on their way to introducing fixed telephony, as they've evolved across our country. We criticized it two years ago. It seems to me that Velimir Ilic was two months ago and he first spoke publicly that he had no control. The epochal thing about broadcasting, how members of the Broadcasting Organization Council are elected. There's something coming from the third attempt, so the election won't be a ridiculous Olympics. What else is changing? The period for privatisation of so-called "privitation" is extended. local state media. And whoever suggests it does not know what the word means - public, or what the word means - works of general interest. The subscription's coming back. If the subscription comes back, then return to state before May 1993. And then you'll buy those devices that will spy on citizens who don't have a TV, who has a TV. And to remind that of your minister, because he said, in his presentation, a piglet, and then there was something epochal. Let him concentrate. Defend RTS. It's Bastille TV. Did you break it down with bulldozers? You've made a career out of it, so now you're taking care of 8,000 people. Well, those 8,000 people were supposed to be taken care of 10 years ago. So you attacked them, even today is said to be war-scrapers, hate speech, and remember your "Sabre". You used the media. There's no concept. Why hasn't the Broadcasting Council been working for years? Since that first election? Well, he can't because if he went into frequency distribution, he'd get into a live one: he'd hit Bogoljub Karic, he'd hit Mitrovica, he'd hit Soros, he'd hit the Americans, he'd hit Anem. There's a limit to that space. You don't even have a frequency and channel distribution plan yet. He's got that other telecommunications advice, you know, first he needs to finish the job, and the states are nowhere to be found. We warned you two years ago, when you passed that law and the telecommunications law, that you threw the state away, it's nowhere to be found. That concept of yours supposedly independent independent regulatory bodies, which are completely in our legal system undefined, and then the minister tells us here that he has no control, no knowledge. Well, you've distanced the state from one area, and now the Council of those Broadcasting agencies is going to be everything and everything. Something if natural of these media is extinct in some space and some time that follows us, later when it comes to some optimal number, it will again be about some noise of "keep the wolf" to cut off, to finish, and we will have three or four levels of broadcasting organisations, so on. The emitter, with something allegedly plotted. And where's the profession? Representative G17 plus praised Cedomir Mirkovic and those large programs, etc. Well, guys, you've been attacking all this. So this late Cedomir Mirkovic, you didn't even want to return to RTS to work when his term as a federal envoy ended. Who's making these shows now? Some who were going to school. Where? Budapest, Segedin, well known, 150 marks, Natasa Miljkovic, and others, and Nenad Stefanovic, all are known. You have no influence on RTS. You don't. As anyone has been coming during your power since October 5, 2000, to run the RTS, so part of the media space has given in to private media. Well, I guess you get it. And when Susha came, and when Churchvenjakov came and now this Tianic. You're talking there about some schools, some knowledge, and where that school is, where it's knowledge with some. Where's that knowledge? Where did that knowledge come from? Look who came from the private media in RTS. And now you claim - he's not a public service. And what if it's not a public service? If it's not a public service, why are you funding it from the budget? He says he'll be when the first television subscription comes. Warn him, please, that's not something a minister should say. He really doesn't know anything about the media. He doesn't know anything about public property. How is that possible? Now you're trying through the electro-priority to charge for it. The power industry says - out of the question. Seven percent of our incomes are down. And I have to remind you, since you've been attacking everything and everything, here and now if you have an electrician in some facility that you don't use, depending on the power there, you pay 150 to 160 dinars every month even if you haven't turned the power on. (louds from the bench - that's not true. How is it not true? Who says it's not true? He doesn't pay for electricity, but his wife keeps a record of it. Only a ignorant woman can say that. Take the check and take a look. And you have 18% VAT, you have a fixed portion based on a certain number of kilowatts and 66 dinars per kilowatt. If you don't have the consumption, if you're in the green tariff. Please look at your house and you'll see - 160 dinars are paid without spent kilowatts of electricity. There is no concept for the broadcasting system of the Republic of Serbia. Any system that would be established here would be in the best interests and NGOs, and these foreigners who are interested in having mental manipulation with Serbian citizens, and as a result of these mental manipulations, it is no wonder that B92 twists, conveys and disinforms citizens. And you're now asking the SRS for some consent to this concept of law. The concept of law is bad. He doesn't provide any guarantees. Who? Citizens. To the citizens first. It provides no guarantee for objective, true and timely information. He doesn't provide any guarantees for creation. Please, RTS, which should have its own production, buys emissions of semi-private and some other combinations, various producers and broadcasts over its own channel, so VIN is broadcast. Why would VIN broadcast on RTS? Where's the public interest? Explain it to me. Where there is a public interest in what Lila Radonjic is thinking. Where is the public interest, what does Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, think? The other day, that Cedomir Cupic showed up and now he's giving moral lectures to someone whether to resign or not, not to mention his biography. So that Yorga, who lost with the Resistance in the election, then that psychologist, he now interprets everything, and suicide, depression, etc. Who's the one who decides who's going to go to RTS? Why is it a public interest to keep Cedomir Chupic on TV? Who set that up? Minister Koadinovic tells us: all this can be done, but it will be a public service when the first dinar comes from a subscription to television. One of my predecessors said: a year ago you changed this law in the part where members of the Radio-Delefusing Council were elected, and now that part is changing again. Let's see how many months we're gonna change something again. Did you who came to power call the previous government that did not begin to comply with the legal obligations? And the current law says that the subscription is charged, the monthly amount is set and it is known that some competition needs to be called, that public companies will report for payment. You're the one who set up the Power Company. I'm asking you, why didn't you set up the mail, she used to charge the subscription. The post office is in a far more difficult state than electro-priority. If you couldn't erase the legal obligation, which you weren't resilient, so that Zarko Korać leaves from house to house - good afternoon, good afternoon, I'm the DOS guy, we're against charging over an electric counter, we've introduced a TV subscription, please sign in. Well, he can't, because it's clear to the citizens that they've been cheated. Some of the representatives of some of the parties of the former DOS come out here and lecture us on how concepts are and how systems are in some countries. Less or more provide accurate information, i.e. accurate in that part that corresponds to their political option. I ask the question why didn't you develop at least one system until the end of the sequence? There are countries where all citizens pay their subscription, public service is viewed through antennas, and this goes privately over cables. Citizens can't even have satellite antennas. I think Belgium, Holland, is something like that. In some countries, those who are a public service do not have a commercial program. Of course, they're here for information, artistic, educational, etc. What's your concept? He's gone. Here's the concept: hold the water while I'm in power, don't regulate anything, so I can attack tomorrow from the opposition, whine and cry as I'm ruined in the cloud of public information. That's your point. We're not going to give you consent here, because this concept of broadcasting law is not being accepted. He doesn't see the state, he opens up problems. A moment ago, you argued whether it would be called a difusing organisation of Vojvodina or Serbia, or Belgrade or Novi Sad. Where's Pristina? If we start with that story, then you can see it's all pointless. If we tell where Pristina is, where's Nis, where's Kragujevac, and then where's the local community? It's coming out of an uninterrupted vicious circle. Who has a little more media space, he's just going to push his attitudes into someone's strength, and is that quality, is that a permanent solution, is that a system? It's not. That's why we can't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18464	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, how much the Government cares about this law and how important this law is to it, as Mr. Minister told us this morning, it is best to confirm that he is not present throughout the afternoon session. It speaks of the seriousness of the government, it speaks of the government's willingness to engage in a proper resolution of this issue and the problems it wanted to solve through this law. As far as the DS is concerned, I think that's what we said in the afternoon, and today, we repeat, there are huge regrets, although by members very little changes, but a very bad law seems and will be almost inapplicable, its essence will be completely unthinked. The DS believes that what is the first and most important objection is that the extension of the deadline for the privatisation of local media from July 2006 to December 31st 2008, something that is inadmissible, and which will cause even greater and even more harmful consequences for local media, which are the founders of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. If we bear in mind that there is almost no local station in Serbia that is not financed from the local self-government budget, such a solution means that the existing situation, otherwise a very difficult situation in these information houses, will almost be maintained, if not made worse. I remind you, the government already owns a rule on how to privatise local media, but no one in the competent ministry remembered to apply that rule, especially not the minister, who gave himself the right to a bit of an opposition this morning because someone gave himself the right to criticise his legal proposal. Public enterprises, whose founder is local self-government, I say once again, are in a very difficult state, technically and materially almost led to the edge. Knowing that local self-government budgets are quite modest and knowing how Mr Dinkic designed the transfer funds, what local self-government budgets look like, we can assume that in the coming period, the local TV station will be in a very difficult financial state. Although funds from local self-government for the work of these public enterprises are being allocated to the spoon, it still leaves room for local powerful people to influence the programming scheme of companies whose founders are local self-government. It will not be strange, as we have recently had the opportunity to see in Kragujevac, that editors and journalists of the public company, RTV Kragujevac, are calling for informative talks, because the ruling group is dissatisfied with re-emissioning some show. We'll get a chance to see how some of the city's or municipal council members in charge of information work like this again. Instead of helping their public enterprises, they criticise or blackmail the editors and directors of these public enterprises because they do not like the programme scheme, and they will blackmail them by deprive them of their financial resources or by delaying salaries. If we bear in mind that a local TV station in Serbia has a total of around 75 to 80% of the funds from the local self-government budget, and from 20 to 25%, depending on whether it is a slightly stronger economy or if it is more capable of finding more resources, it is about the relationship that these media houses have with them and the resources they have during the year. So, isn't it the intention of one of these delaying privatisation processes itself that the proposing goes so far that, leaving them to the case, by itself, these public enterprises and disappearing. The illogical fact is that the desire to form a public service, to reduce public spending or to isolate from the budgets of RTS funding leaves room for local municipalities or municipalities and cities to separate from their budgets to finance public enterprises of informative activity, whose founders are local self-government. Why isn't it going to reduce that public spending? Once again, I say, and this is in favour of the DS claim that the delay in the period for the start of privatisation for 31 December 2008 is something that is pointless. The amendment to make a compromise solution, so that we go to 2007, is also unacceptable and that we will not make any concession by cutting the deadline for a year, and still leaving it to local leaders to be able to make a good impact and to criticise, or maybe to cut funds if they don't like editorial policy. We're not going to make any moves here, nor are we really going to get into a situation to say, we have really independent and objective media in the local environments. What's the highlight of this proposal is the return of the fee to the count. It's not a public service subscription, it's a return service to a number from that period, at least as far as DS is concerned, which is clear and loud and then criticized, and now it criticises, it's an electricity tax and nothing but that. I expect someone recently mentioned by my predecessors that soon, as this government operates, we will have those famous Swedish detectors that will reveal the messy pay. So, according to this proposal, changes and additions to the law are offered to finance party television. RTS has not yet been transformed into a public service and that is the essence of the problem, and that is what DS points out as a problem, a lack of changes to this law. Who assures us that in a period of time when the RTS subscription will begin to be converted? Does that guarantee us the Tianic? I don't guarantee him. Is this guaranteed by the government or Kostunica? I don't trust him or his government. Who's to guarantee they'll move into the RTS transformation process? Is it a guarantee of the Republic Broadcasting Agency? The right to tell you, I don't trust them much either, since they didn't come forward at all in the election of Mr. Tijanic as director of RTS, knowingly knowing that his choice was against the law. So we're going to have one paradoxical situation, state television under government control, I remind you once again, the director of the government's election, the board of directors elects the government, and now citizens need to finance RTS work. The logical trail of things is that according to the law first access to the transformation of RTS, and after that we go to the opening of the competition for licensing. Only after this process can we, or you can go to the citizens and ask for payment of the subscription. Then you won't have party-oriented television. As long as you ask the citizens, and you have not finished the work that preceded them, you will not convince them that it will not be the service of the ruling group or any group that wins power in some subsequent elections, because the law is not fully implemented. By creating a public service, it excludes political interference and it is a fundamental confusion or replacement of thesis or ignorance that some of my predecessors had the opportunity to show today, even the vice president of the Assembly showed how he sees public service. At the very least, that was very funny. When you have direct funding from the budget, it's logical that you will have policy influence. RTS is a company whose director and board of directors is appointed by the Government and you are now telling us that it will be a public service that will not be under the patronage of the ruling group. We're not naive, we're too serious people, and we know very well how it's going to work. Mr Tijanic told us at the meeting of the Committee on Culture that RTS was almost brought to bankruptcy. Indeed, the ruling group's MPs were obliged to explain to us, those who went out here, who led RTS to bankruptcy? As a DS MP, I would really like it and I wish that if not one of you, then at least a minister, but I'm sorry, he doesn't have it, says who spent it. Why RTS was brought to bankruptcy and which magician Tijanic brought RTS to this stage that we have this state today. And why the representatives of the ruling group, who today represent this law and think that it is good and quality, when we had a budget rebalance, did not insist that the funds provided for normal and uninterrupted operation of RTS until the start of the transformation remain with RTS. But today we have a situation for the director to tell us, we have no funds, we are ahead of bankruptcy, come on, who will help – citizens. Who do we help? RTS? What is the difference between Milosevic's subscription and Kostunica's? There is no difference, except that you have received too many manners from them, you are taking over their payment models and burdens for the citizens of Serbia. So, in this case, the subscription you're talking about is not a subscription, it's an imposition. It is an imposition for citizens, and it is not a guarantee that citizens will indeed have a public service, that the money they have allocated for public service will indeed be directed at creating a powerful public service, that these funds will indeed be spent properly. If the guarantee for the spending of the funds is Kostunica, Tijanic and the board of directors, we do have serious reserves. So it would have been best if the minister had withdrawn this law. As far as DS is concerned, she made her views known. I say once again, this is one bad law, nakaradan, which will slow down the reforms that need to be implemented in the field of radio-difffusion and we think that what you wrote here will be almost nothing, so it would be best if this law were withdrawn. I appeal to those security deputies of the ruling group to reconsider and not vote for this law, and as things stand, I sincerely hope that they will not and will be the ones who will deny the trust of a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18466	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a debate on mostly state television, you should listen carefully only to the MPs of the SRS, because we were the only ones who didn't use that television to do our political affairs, and one of us didn't abuse the influence we could have on state television. When I listen to representatives of different regimes from previous times how they always praise the time when they ruled television and always attack the time in which others ruled television, to remind you that some stranger would not understand you at all. Here, if he were to sit here in the O.R. and listen to a debate about how the state television will be financed, he wouldn't understand us at all. If we told him that fighting for democracy was actually a fight for television, he wouldn't understand us at all. Serbia, such a country, has been a strange, long-standing struggle for democracy, for many politicians, almost for all, has been a struggle to come to power. Then it is understood that there will be democracy when I am in power. It's the Serbian politicians' regime. There is no democracy while I am in opposition, so of course there will be democracy, so I am in power. And the fact that someone else is starting to whine and have the consequences that he had while he was in the opposition doesn't occur to him to at least run an analysis of it, so he can change his behavior a few times. We're listening to the story of state television bankruptcy. Shall we grieve when all of Serbia, our entire economy, is bankrupt, when each of us Serbian citizens, I don't speak for us MPs, but each of Serbia's citizens before bankruptcy, or has long been bankrupt, and we are now thinking about whether or not they will bankrupt our state television. How to bankrupt television that has three national frequencies. Ask privates who have a national frequency whether their television is in a bad situation, whether they live on that television or ask for additional funding. Only TV management decides whether television will operate financially positive or not. But when it becomes normal for the government's constituents not to pay any more attention to state television, because there's someone there who has to listen to them, because they've made that director a decree, they can take it down by decree. And when he stops paying attention to state television, sometimes he comes into a situation where he thinks about what he's doing and wonders who he left it to. Then remember that you have some law that should at least look at how it was delivered, if there are any deadlines, if there are any obligations. That's how it occurred to this government to look at some of the obligations of one of the laws and to find that the deadlines for meeting those obligations were long gone without anyone even moving their fingers to fulfil their obligations. Now the media is talking about what's going to happen to state television, local media, how we're going to choose the Broadcasting Council and whether television is going to become a public service. How will it become a public service when politicians call the phone editors, directors, editors of some shows, whenever they don't like what they say, what they do. And how to become a public service when we never invited them, we never had any objective access to those media, because in Serbia everything is wrong, so if you threaten anyone, he thinks about what he's doing, and if you act normally and correctly he says - I don't despise this, he won't do anything against me, even though I've done a lot against him. That's why on national television, the representative of the SRS when he goes on any show feels like he's in court, because a journalist is able to look for some sins, some mistakes, ask him what he was doing, so I was asked by the chief and responsible editor of television whether it was true that 14 years ago I said something in a tribune in Kragujevac. It was March 1990, and I started to do politics, and he found out what I was saying in some stands that year, and since I was a candidate for president, it was very good to embarrass me in front of the outside world. Then I ask him - well, did you ever ask Tadic and Kostunica, and if you can ask them. Of course, no one but members of the SRS could ever question them, let alone remind them of something that might seem counterproductive at this time. Now where we've come from. You have a strange composition, an editorial composition on national television. You knew that Bogoljub Karic was coming to you on state television. You knew, Tijanic is coming, bringing the team of Bogoljub Karic, but there are those on that team who work for the DS. You kept your mouth shut. You kept your mouth shut. You kept your mouth shut. You kept your mouth shut. Now it's all to be supported. Well, I strongly suggest that the parties that have the director, the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief, separate the money and finance state television. You have as much money as you want, you have friends abroad, don't take everything for yourself, give something for state television, because you were against the fact that television is funded by subscription. It is possible that on October 5th, there was anger on the streets for other reasons, but 50 per cent of citizens who were on the streets of Belgrade on October 5th were due to a TV subscription. It was your favorite topic, it was the main weapon to bring down power. And what else could you bring her down? By fighting the NATO Pact. That's not what the government was falling for. What else could you do than pay the people a TV subscription or even a pig, with two pigs in it and no TV. You didn't think as wisely as people who, while in opposition, have to say what they'll do when they're in power. Of course, all of you besides radicals used local media, the media of local self-government. Milosevic and JUL, I would say more JUL, so Tijanic and JUL, they held state television, "Politics", so the state media, and then you found weapons, you won the local elections in 1996 and you formed local television. From Horgos to Dragas, you covered the media space in Serbia with TVs that were against Milosevic. You fought against each other, you supported those media with the means of local self-government, and then Europe told you Europeans - where did you get the right of local self-government to finance television. Is there an example in the world? Then you made some kind of decision to privatize the local media for two or three years. The power has been replaced, the new one has arrived and the new one is now leaving itself for another three and a half years, or two and a half, depending on these deadlines that are now written on paper, to privatise so-called. The local media. Why didn't that lawman look different? Why didn't he say - the local media is shutting down, the local self-government media. It's a reform. Europe says shut down, and you shut down. And you don't tell Europe - I'll shut down in three years or I'll shut down in five or I'll never shut down. What do you need more local media for? How much budget money do you support them with? During his time in Kragujevac, more funds went on TV than any other giving, before you started running into Kragujevac. More than any other giving, more than any giving to which the municipality is bound by law. The most important thing was to support television, so it was reported in Kragujevac that the state wanted to shut down local television, so the strikes were ahead of local television -- we don't give Kragujevac TV. Is anyone watching her now? No one's looking anymore. Verko's looking to see if they've changed the policy of editorial with you to him. That's the only reason he's looking to tell them there's no money tomorrow. Why do you need such media that depend and fear whether you will give them money so that they can support themselves? Have you ever noticed that the radicals fought for any medium? It's not Minister Kadadinovic, I reminded him from the bench, and who hates the winter when he took Nebojsa Covic's TV? Radicals. No one else was in front of Study B, and we didn't have access to Study B at all. We had a sense of democracy, we knew the government couldn't take the media. You all have butter on your head now. The media are the painful point of the Serbian political scene. Let's get this straight sometime. Let's let our success in the election depend on what we do and what we do when we win, not how the media represents us, not how much influence we have on the media. Don't follow the Western influence of the media on the political scene, because you can see that's not helping. It has a huge influence, a huge impact on the DS, but the most powerful radicals. Obviously, that's out of proportion. It's even the other way around. The more you show up on TV, the more our national ratings are growing. So I suggest that you do not accept this law, it would be good if the minister had read it, he would have understood what it was, maybe he would have withdrawn it, and we would have sat down to make changes and supplement or a new law that would fully regulate this matter, that we would all be satisfied, and that the citizens of Serbia would be satisfied and have public service. I'm ready to vote for public service funding. Of course, paid on the bridge or on the pot anyway. Whether money comes from budgets, taxes, taxis and various other charges or is paid subscriptions, the citizen of Serbia is that anyway. But he wants to know what he's paying for. Now they're going to ask you -- well, you advised us not to pay a TV subscription while the Socialists and radicals were in power. We didn't pay the electricity to keep the subscription from being paid. Now what? It was organized there to set up kegs in cities, bring a bill of electricity, light it here in a barrel to record the BBC, to record the Si-En-En, to record everyone. Now you've come to power and ask the people to pay you a subscription. Will Pera Peric, who, on your advice, not pay a TV subscription, come tomorrow to pay? He won't. What measures will you take? Are you ready to introduce a TV subscription again to take measures against those who don't pay a TV subscription? They will not be angry, so they will not pay a subscription; they have nothing to pay. Serbia is in a much worse situation today than it was three years ago, worse than five, worse than before 12, when the subscription was introduced in this way, so it was the basis, and maybe you won the local elections on the subscription, it still needs to be analysed. Think carefully about what you do. Two frequencies, which state television has surpluses and doesn't know what to do with them, are enough to fund the one that has to remain owned by the state. The solution is very simple and it is immediately solved, and the local media will be shut down within a month. I'm telling you, you shut down and shut down the economy, and it went without an earthquake. Don't worry about the local media at all. A team before when you started them, you had to drag them out of Belgrade. No one had personnel, and you got 150 local TVs. If that's how you understand democracy and information, you'll have support and the SRS, but if public service is what the minister said this morning, so you know that at the time of the Socialists and the Radicals it wasn't a public service, and now we're in power, so now it's become a public service, if that's how you understand state television, we won't participate. As we had the courage and pride to leave the board of directors of television at the time we were part of the government, we will only now have more courage to attack you for what you do with state television. Look at the selection of personnel on national television and see where they went to school in the media sphere. Where did they go to school? The so-called to independent media. Who trained them? Sorosch and the others. It can't be Serbian and it can't be national television. But, of course, we need to get that mark out of the history textbook, almost everything you've printed in the last five years, written, recorded, because you've trampled that feeling for a national, much more than those who advise you to step on it. If you had feelings for Serbia as much as the Americans have for America, maybe from this pay phone I wouldn't have anything to blame you for, but you've always been more Catholic than the Pope, so you can see it on this bill and on all the so-called. the reforms you have adopted or which you will adopt in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18468	Mr. Markovic is not here. I was informed in the meantime. The People's Messenger Anita Beretic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18469	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that I may, in some way, begin my reflection on the amendment and supplementation of the Radio-Difusion Act. Namely, what marks my thinking on today's subject is two paradoxes, of course, to me paradox. One that the most sleepy and slowest government in Serbia's recent history, in my humble view, marks the excess of activists when adopting and proposing these changes and additions, is a complete surplus of activists. The second paradox, which I'm just amazed at right now, is that I fully agree with the diagnosis, if I can call it that, part of my predecessor's exposure, that the media, I'm going to paraphrase now, is the most painful point of our public life and our society. That's where we fully agree. If we agree, we can still represent one civilizational advance in our communication to the public, and I'm satisfied with it, and I'm unilaterally satisfied with it. In fact, what marks something that should be an argument to the MPs in support of this proposal, practically by representatives of the parliamentary majority and representatives of the government, or the competent minister, who unfortunately is not here, so we cannot give him any questions and we will probably be denied the answers to the questions that have already been asked during the day, it has practically failed completely. What will mark the attempt to justify this proposal is only by who knows which time the previous government was dealt with, especially with the first and second years of the previous government, and especially who knows which time to take a mouth and quote, now the late one, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and all in order to continue to fight what was started in 2000. You can't even go forward and try to turn back, go ahead and stand in place. It's just inexhaustible. Instead of argumenting, we got in exhibitions, more or less, but indeed more times, only proof of the complete absence of any vision that this area should practically look, and even more than the absence of vision, we got proof of the complete absence of preparedness, and if you want courage, because it takes a lot, that in a modern way this important, this most painful point of our social and public life is arranged in a modern way. So I don't see from the motions, nor from the representatives of the congregation's majority, any argument that would support MPs to possibly change their decision and support this law. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, we have practically not received any arguments. Why did I say this was an extra activism? We've heard most of the times that the existing law is practically inadmissible. I don't agree with that, of course, but assuming that it is, I'm asking the promoter, and I'm going to remain obviously denied for the answer, that it will explain to us that with these few members who offer as changes and supplements will make the law more applicable than its current form and content. That's not true at all. He's applicable, but he's not applied, and there's been no attempt to apply him, and that's a fact. That's what I was talking about, because there's no readiness, no vision, no courage to get into that process. Three topics were mostly dragged in here, and not harmless subjects, and we talked about them more or less all day. So what will make the whole area covered by the Radio-Difusion Act better arranged if Article 1 amending Article 27 of the existing Law, which concerns the composition and rights of members of the Council, deletes attitude 3 and thus withdraws or deprives the acquired veto right to a representative appointed by the AP Vojvodina. That's a good question. That's the question on which I hope our meetings will be more and more frequent in terms of reconciliation or mutual support. It's our goal as a society. This should be the goal of modern free media and the construction of such media we should support. We shouldn't be afraid of different people, we shouldn't be afraid of acquired freedoms or acquired rights. Any abolition or reduction of acquired rights and freedoms is an imminent return. Therefore, it is not true what the Proposer is saying in an explanation that the right of veto is lifted to a representative from Vojvodina in the Council because he has more rights than the other members of the Council and that he can abuse and slow down or prevent the decision of any kind concerning any part of the Republic of Serbia. That's not true. The current Law in this article makes it clear that this right representative, appointed by the AP Vojvodina, comes only into the situation concerning decisions applicable in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. How democracy and freedom in a society can be presented more clearly than with authentic representation. I guess the highest institution in the AP Vojvodina has the same weight as any other member appointed by other institutions and organisations, associations, religious communities, etc. Why do we have fear here? Not all believers in Serbia, so there is no fear that atheists will be threatened by how representatives of religious communities in the Council will vote. What's the problem? It's all right for me. Local media -- there's already been said. This is the most obvious part of the amendment and addition of this law, which shows virtually absolute impotence and complete determination to stand in place, to pass this time, so let's see what happens after that. So, the deadline in the still in force of the Radio Diffusion Act is 2006. Yes, there was still enough time, and a year behind us and this time ahead of us, to make quality instructions, rules, to deal with an entire sector in the ministry. It's an important job, and nobody does that. The local media, it's a whole network completely messy and everybody keeps it to themselves a little bit of power, and that's all they can do with local media. One step has not been taken. Subscribe - The Democratic Party will of course not spread the demagogy. Here is a series of arguments why the subscription – yes. It is foreseen by the existing law and this is not a question for us. The difference between what should be introduced as a public service subscription and what we had in the past times, which was not even known how, a tax on this, a tax on what it was, and what the opposition was against then, and that's a fact. We're against it now because that's what it looks like. We're looking and we really want a public service. We want citizens to participate in the creation of this public service in a certain way and to provide public service for every single thing. It's a public service. It's not the public service this political nomenclature sees, so tomorrow it's another one. No, there were funny turns out here about what's going on, so how public service is being made after the elections, etc. That's not it. So far, again in this time, we have not received any attempts at projections, projects, offers how this ministry, how national television sees the way to transformation into public service. The offer and what it is to meet the different needs of all citizens is an offer that should be offered by public service and that is what should be paid. But as an obligation for something that is absolutely undefined and for something that leaves not only an open door but even a wide open door for the re-absolute politicisation of national television, it is democratic against it. For all these reasons, of course we are unable to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18470	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this assembly speaker and this place has been the scene of conflict and different opinions for 15 years when it comes to national or radio-television of Serbia. It is not national, because we do not have a national state today, in which representatives of the majority Serb people and representatives of all other national minorities should feel safe, free and develop their freedom of opinion and democratic processes, and we do not have that because we have such power, such a President of the Republic. It is truly amazing that someone gives for himself the right, and especially the current director of Serbian Radio-Television, which is everything but national television, that with the slogan, along with all those sunflowers and with the flags of the European Union countries, every evening tries, as the predecessor of the adoption of this law, to convince Serbian citizens that it is a national network of European Serbia. First, you, and I mean the ruling structure and this failed DOS regime, cannot yet tell in your mind that Serbia has long been in Europe and that European Serbia and integration processes, as you imagine and try to implement them, are leading Serbia into an even greater ambition. And that our hand to the East, and at the same time we want to co-operate with the West, can't serve you as a science and a good lesson, which is constantly being given to you in the pre-election campaign by Serbian radicals. Because the Radio-Television of Serbia – both under the SPS regime and at a time when the Serbian Radical Party was a minority partner and took part in the government, in the most difficult time per state and people, during sanctions and NATO bombings, later during the notorious Dosmanial regime, established after a five-octobar mafia coup in our country, until the new DOS and Kostunica's time -- in one way or another wanted to be in the wrong light, sometimes absolutely monstrous, and now in a more moderate manner, but absolutely to minimise the role of the Serbian Radical Party, its present-day president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who seems to show you, if you want to understand and see something, how it defends national interest, and what is really a nation and state, and how responsible politicians should perform. So, to tie up one segment of the work of so-called national television for now, fortunately all Serbian patriots, such a function of Dr. Seselj, segments from last night's Second Journal. All of you who, as well as the vast majority of Serbian citizens, have been able to monitor the brilliant testimony of Professor Vojislav Seselj in front of the Council of The Hague tribunal for three days now, were able to see that he was primarily using his fantastic legal calling, and then visperity, today one of the most prominent politicians, not only here, but also at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, the Balkans and Europe, however you will. He was statelyly wise and responsible, answering questions, wanted to remove the anthem from both the Serb people and all that was attributed to us by the so-called so-called. independent and free media, funded by Soros, which are still funded today, but for that yesterday, there was no hearing of the so-called. National TV and the editor of the second journal. Instead of factographically transferring part of the testimony in the four-hour election of his work and efforts in The Hague tribunal, national television, RTS is completely trendy in the second journal, taking over from some agency that is under direct control or Soros Foundation and all those who are doing the opposite interests of the state and the people, or so wanted by the editor of the Second Log, completely the opposite of what he said and wanted, and as he will continue and in the coming days, to speak about the truth and only the truth, in the second diary said, I will paraphrase the speaker, the manager who said this, in addition to last night, that he, in July rhetorical manner, wanted to expose the facts, wanted to show yesterday something that the Serbs were doing against some others, deliberately wanting to deceive the public. And you are now trying to tell the citizens of Serbia who, with great joy, are first of all honest, because they are depressed, humiliated, in national and economic terms, welcomed after two and a half years that such a man, such a Serbian hero, spoke to them through testimony, as a witness to the defence case of Slobodan Milosevic, you are now waiting for those people, who were looking forward to the appearance of Dr. Seselj and their eyes to see a direct transmission from The Hague, through national television, saying that he is actually saying something else, not what he really said. You know, there's no difference, as Mr. Alexander Vukic noted several times this morning, between the information program, in that sense, when it comes to such reporting, between RTS and TV B92. Because everything that represents a national recovery, a shift in the sense that all advanced ones are being consolidated, I mean national and patriotic forces in this country, you do not want to present as such, thus minimising the role of Serbian radicals, and hence the appearance of the SRS leader on RTS has been questioned throughout the year, except when local or parliamentary elections are not called. The obvious example of this is also the deputy president of the SRS, who told you this morning about his unpleasant experience, at least when it comes to RTS, but what more than you will be doing on the RTS case has never, in one single minute, been visited by Mrs Pop-Lazic, who is the vice president of the Central Country Administration of our party and vice president of the Assembly, and other Serbian radicals. Where are they in these new authorial editions of Karic's staff, taken over by Tijanic. And not to be confused, although the citizens see it, because in urban environments, as you, particularly Democrats, like to call urban environments, you see cable television, or that Miljkovicka, or Milicevicka, or Stefanovic, or all the other Tijanic staff and feathers have not invented anything new. All these stolen shows from other televisions from Europe, which Rai Una, Dua, made French television houses, Bibisia, Sienna, simply through the new concept of the information programme. And such shows, where there are no SRS leaders, mainly talk about topics where the thesis is being replaced and where the citizens are being thrown into the eyes, and where there is no talk of a difficult economic and social situation, about what is threatening us and what the future awaits us, children in Serbia, after all the disastrous moves now by Kostunica's government, with all Draskovic and signing an agreement with NATO pact. And before I talk about that, one of the darkest times in Serbia's history, such as the government of the DOS regime headed by the Democratic Party. What citizens cannot accept from the pale arguments of Minister Kojadinovic, who did not want to respect the National Assembly and to appear here in the afternoon session, is his poor woman, along with Tijanic, over the alleged bankruptcy of RTS. Why didn't you ask yourself why you didn't knock so hard, I never heard Kodinovic, in any of his performances, worry about the fate of Serbian citizens and how hard they live. Why don't you imagine a little situation to live off receiving four or five thousand dinars a month, or maybe you don't have that much, because over a million people don't have one single dinar, there's zero dinars every month because it doesn't work, what it's like for these people and how they're going to react when they get electricity bills, with all this subscription, along with the government's amendments, which has so famously come up with a contract, imagine, the public enterprise of RTS and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia is charging for so-called. Public service. First you should have come from the fact that the price of electricity and to mention a little bit, is not burning, and through this topic and this law, the mafia godmother couple of Hamovic and Lazarevic, how much they have robbed the citizens, and then the citizens of the electricity bills, where they have an incredible price of kilowatt hours, much higher than in all the countries around them, have another item that is the same as the future subscription for RTS, which is the remonting of the power plants of Serbia, with all those loans, donations and counter-guarantees. And now you're going to tell the Serbian citizens that, at the price of electricity, they're going to pay a subscription to television, which is all but not a national programme. It doesn't even protect national interests. Very often, as exclusives in the second RTS programme brings people, because they count that at that time RTS's ratings are the largest, which have nothing to do with reality, which are defeated analysts, psychologists, military experts, from Trebišanin, through Veljko Kadjevic, not the general, but this new one from the Atlantic Alliance, all the way to Zdravko Colic, who was the only honest one who said, when he appeared in the second journal of RTS, that it was his honor and that he wanted it from his childhood, and that it was an honor to him, and that he would not, of course, speak about topics concerning the economy and how the people live. Citizens of Serbia, those who can watch only the first RTS programme on the Cave, or in southern Serbia, or in a vast number of cities, municipalities and villages where there is no cable TV and other elections, cannot accept that allegedly RTS bankruptcy and new editorial policies are something that will represent a better future for Serbia and the Serbian people, that we will better introduce ourselves to the world, that we will better move forward with time and that it will benefit the children who live here, people who are unemployed and those who are barely able to put an end to the end. As for this networking, and earlier on there were words about it, alleged free and independent media, the larger scum could not be collected rather than in certain TV and radio stations of Soroše's mercenaries, the same mercenaries as that of the drug addict and the Cypriot lobbyist Natasa Kandic. If that's true, he's making an example out of Kragujevac. TV Kragujevac is almost entirely on the budget of the poor and sad citizens of Kragujevac, and now under Stevanovic's authority, previously under DOS, and before that, when they were together, and now they are no longer. For your information, for 2005, from the Kragujevac City budget, the poor Kragujevci, in a city where at least 40,000 people have no job, stands out 45 million dinars. Not only is this television the scene of anti-Serbian hysteria and there is no largest parliamentary party in Serbia, such as the SRS, because for example, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is Kragujevcan and the most popular politician in Serbia, and today represents the SRS here in the country in the absence of our president, last time in the study TV Kragujevac was on our cross-respect - February 12, 1996, in a city where the SRS has a large parliamentary group, is an argument and fierce opposition to the Stevanovic government, there is no place on TV Kragujevac for the SRS in such a city. But there are for those who are enemies of the Serbs and there are for all those who are very fond of it, and they are in the electoral body, thank God, less and less, who are monitoring how AEM's production is reported and what kind of monstrous emissions it has in its production against the people and the state. So on TV Kragujevac, there was a scandal of unprecedented proportions. That in the campaign of this junkie Kandic woman against Mr Tomislav Nikolic and in the campaign conducted by B-92 and other Sorosevic mercenaries against the Serb people, on the eve of the marking of what was happening in Srebrenica, TV Kragujevac broadcasts two days in a row from the ANEM network "Why in the church whispers". You who watched that show from that production and you who didn't, you must know that it was the most monstrous attack on the Serbian people and on the SPC, which never, along with its people, had criminal ideology. As Mr Nikolic said at the "Truth" rally at the Sava Centre, we were never, neither were our ancestors nor would they be children in Serbia. It was never SPC ideology. This is paid by the citizens of Kragujevac because Stevanovic and the Kragujevci authorities decided this year that it is financed by this amount, instead, as suggested by the SRS, that this television is absolutely shut down, it is unnecessary and it does not represent public service, the service of citizens, spends a huge budget and represents something worse when it comes to such production, which every man can see, anyone who feels responsible and who does not want to talk about his people and his country. See how the city television, or Bogdanović's Studio B, behaves. Did the journalist "Studio B" come and objectively, realistically report from regular press conferences held in Zemun by the president of the municipality of Mrs Pop-Lazic, or in the municipality of Grock, anywhere, where the radicals are in power and where people who are willing to expose every affair at the city level, start from Arena, across the parking lot and all of Bogdanovic's machinations, or the city's relationship to the municipality of Zemun, or in an affirmative sense all that the municipality is doing to make the citizens of Zemun municipality live better. There are no reports, but there are attacks, unscrupulous attacks, hickeys, lies and deceptions, and when it comes to the president of the Zemun municipality and radicals in power there, when it comes to the SRS. So, the Belgraders have to bear it and pay for it. From town to city, wherever those who don't think like the SRS are, the deal is with political insolents. The same thing you've done on RTS has happened since the renewal of the multi-party until now, only the SRS has ever wanted to take part in it. As high moral and honorable people, in their case both Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, as members of the RTS Management Board, retreated at the time when they saw that the hacks against political insinuators had no end, not wanting to participate. If you want to follow, and this is my sincerest and well-intentioned advice, further exposure to The Hague tribunal, in the coming days by Professor Vojislav Seselj and all that he will directly tell you, both to the entire domestic and world public, you will also see that his true intercessors for democratic processes and uninterrupted development have been disturbed in such a way by the Western forces, unfortunately and the breaking of the Serbian ethnic space, his efforts and the efforts of the party whose president was, unlike yours, sincere. What makes me happy is the fact that more and more Serbian citizens understand and accept that we people who we wanted and who, in the future, will not be as hypocritical as you and you from this DOS shortened Kostunica regime, and the previous one, do everything we can to make everyone feel free, that everyone can use the role that the people gave him, but only in accordance with the representative capacity. You who, according to the latest accounts, published today by the circulation daily "Kurir", have 0.003 or 0.001% of voters behind you, do not need to tell us what the free media is and what democracy is. Unlike you, and we have kept proving it for 15 years, we know it very well, and we are ready to take this responsible role to lead the country and the people in a better way, and to behave in this way and in the case of national television, which in the right sense will be at the moment when radicals assume power in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18472	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and then the People's MP Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18473	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the third time in a short period in front of the National Assembly, there is a Law on Broadcasting. What is the original law that has been passed and the adopted proposal on amendments to the Law on Radio-Difusion, in the best possible way, says exactly this reasoning that you have given for the adoption of this law. Because how else do you understand and explain these powerful criticisms that you brought to the expense of the law that you brought not so long ago? So in 2004, the Law on Amendments and Supplements was passed. It's interesting what all the words and attitudes you've made about that law. You're saying that what you've predicted by law has become practically inconclusive, so you're saying that the procedure introduces asymmetry, and you're saying that it's obvious that the provisions on the drawing of the Radio Diffusion Act are inadmissible, so you're saying that the provisions of that law put members of the council in an unequal position, and you're saying that some of the provisions are unsustainable, so you're saying that it's going to lead to a complete blocking of the work of the council, and you're saying that the deadlines have become unreal and you're finally saying, "finally, with different circumstances, many deadlines written in the Radio Diffion Act have long been exceeded. "This is how you brought the worst possible charges against yourself. You showed the citizens of Serbia and our MPs – besides a political party that did not participate in the adoption of the law in 2002, nor in the adoption of amendments and additions in 2004, and besides us no one can boast that in 2002 and 2004, he consistently criticised the solutions that you proposed – that we were right and that if you had listened then we would not now be in this situation and the deadlines would not have been exceeded, this would not have been unsustainable, unsustainable and how you have already called all these solutions that you have given. First of all, I have to say that what the first member of the law regulates these deadlines, or the duration of the term of office, is absolutely legal nonsense. I'll read to you how now, after the changes, if you accept them, that member of the law will read. During the first election, you determine the length of the term of office, although the first election has already passed. So it's not something that needs to happen in the future, it's something that's already finished the process, and you later after the election, you say the mandate will be so much and so much. Look how confusing this explanation is. You yourself knew that you were doing something that was completely legally inappropriate, so you say yourself that there are no elements of retroactiveness in this proposal, but at this point the mandate of the council members is not defined. If it's not defined, then why do you say -- the words of two years change in words for six years, the words of three years change in words for five years, etc. If for the first time, when the term of office is said to be two years, the duration of the term of office has not been set, why should it now be determined when you say it will take six years. Do we expect you to go out next year and say, well, it's not six years, it's going to be 12 years, or it's going to be 15 years. How many times and whether you can say in the course of a term of office, the mandate is not that long, but it will be three times longer. It's completely pointless. Imagine if we were to pass a law extending the length of this parliament's mandate from four to eight years, we would say, behold, the Law on selecting Members of Parliament is not set. Furthermore, the following nonsense, "taking into account the complexity of procedures and experience in the current election of council members, is the question of the integrity of the existence of such a short term, as the process of replacing a third of the council members would only have to start a year and a half after his election, which would mean that these members could work uninterruptedly for a year at the most. "First you say that half a year before the end of the term of office that member of the council cannot work, because that is when the re-election process begins. I don't know why, given the fact that the law has been laid down and that the same person can't be chosen twice to be a member of the broadcasting council and what it is that in those last six months, it would bother him to perform his duties. And then you say that half a year before the process is even started they won't be able to work, I guess they're going to experience some stress, because in half a year they're going to start a process based on which they're going to be replaced by someone else in a year. This is completely insane and undemocratic what you're doing. I don't think this has a similar example anywhere in the world. I think the only thing that's good in the law is that this is the abolition of the veto of a council member who's been elected on the proposal of an authorised promoter from the AP Vojvodina. That was unconstitutional. Secondly, this argument that this provision represents some kind of protection, I don't know who that protection would be and who we protect by such provisions. I think that some should get used to it once and realize that the Republic of Serbia is unique, that this information space should be unique, that national television should work for all citizens of Serbia, and I don't know what that would be smarter than someone from Vojvodina is and that we should protect more the rights of citizens who are in Vojvodina, and that is, rights in some other parts of the country, I guess, are allowed to be compromised. The increase in the penalties you've provided for these amendments to the law is something that's already becoming standard, because whatever law comes on the agenda, you're necessarily five, six, 10 or 20 times increasing those penalties. But what would be good for the minister to explain to us – who, of course, is not here, because this debate does not interest him, as he was not interested in the law, it is clear that this law did not even write, he probably did not even read the explanation before he showed up here – is that someone is telling us why this range of penalties is different. Some punishments increase five times, some six, and some eight. It is said in the explanation that the punishments were symbolic, although we know that a year ago those sentences were not symbolic, then I guess they were adequate. I don't know if the fine of 200,000 dinars is symbolic, if it's just for this government, if they've put so much into crime, that they've become 200,000 dinars. I don't think it's symbolic for most of the media houses in Serbia, even for the biggest ones, if they were regularly punished for the violations prescribed by this law. I'll remind you that as many as 26 different violations are prescribed. I think if this law were to be applied, it would rarely continue to violate the law as they have so far. The fact is that no punishment has ever been charged, so I don't know how the minister could then estimate that these penalties are symbolic. It is indeed a short time, although the law has only six members, because of my fellow MPs, I cannot go on with the criticism. But be assured that absolutely every member could say at least 10, 15, or 20 minutes, that a man doesn't repeat himself, because so bad are these amendments to the laws you've predicted, but that's why we'll take the opportunity to say more through the amendments about what you've offered us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18474	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask one principle question here to the MPs of the majority of the Parliament and the Government of Serbia, which is why we are even passing laws when these laws are not applied. The law on broadcasting is one of the examples of such laws, and unfortunately it is not the only one. We've spent a lot of time here, talking, warning, explaining, that of course the ruling majority doesn't reach consciousness, and then after a while, the same story, what we were saying at the time this law was passed, whose changes and additions today for the second time need to be discussed. Today we heard from the Minister of Resort everything we said at a time when the law was passed, that the law was inadmissible, that it was written for nothing, that it proposed what was written, that it simply had no possibility of being implemented in practice. Now, in the light of this bill of amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act, we have, and the minister said it himself, all as if they were copying the stenograms of our discussions from the time when this law was passed. It says - the law stipulates that the term of the term of office of the members of the first convocation of the council is determined by drawing, which has practically become inconclusive, etc. So before it was applied in practice, we said it was inconclusive and we shouldn't have waited for it to come on a practical case to prove that it was impossible. You are further saying - it is obvious that the provisions on drawing from the Radio Diffusion Act are inapplicable and that the issue of individual duration of the mandate of the council members remains unresolved. We laughed so much here when the president of the assembly pulled the names of the members of the RadioDifusing Council, I really don't know why you're finding it now. So, nothing new. Why am I saying all this in the first place? Because everything we've been offered in these changes and additions has the same fate. This is something and these amendments and the additions to the law are something we spend today on. You'll do it in the voting day, maybe somehow you'll conclude most of it, because you're on exhale, and you'll vote, and we'll still have another legal text that's practically inapplicable and essentially not going to apply. You're here in criminal terms, you say -- the penalties for radio piracy in the Radio Diffusion Act are very mild. First, Mr. Vukic told you today that the minister didn't explain it to us, and he's not going to explain it to anyone at all, whether someone's been charged a penalty under current law. We're telling you it's not. So it is impossible to determine whether they are mild or severe penalties if they are not applied at all. Secondly, it's not about fines. It's about not applying the law and that someone else needs to answer because the law didn't apply, and the minister didn't explain who it was. He did say he wasn't good at this law whose amendments and additions we're looking for, but he's still a minister for a year and a half, and it doesn't make sense that it took him so long to realize that he has a law that can't be applied. Yeah, he was in Bora Corba. But as of today, he's not his advisor, and that's why the minister has a problem. When the minister said that these amendments and additions to the law would begin to bring chaos into the air, it was really amazing. I've read the bill carefully and the reasoning. I've never seen a sign in any way that, by applying this inapplicable law, it's going to introduce order into the ether, into broadcasting organizations. Did the minister, when he said this, think about the order that he intends to introduce on TV, anti-Serbian TV B92 or on his former studio B, where he burned and burned, and today he was succeeded by Nenad Bogdanovic. And she spoke to a colleague earlier on about how this Studio B, a television that should be city television, Belgrade, as it informs or not informs from certain parts of Belgrade. From city halls where radicals are in power, you have no announcements, no conference reports, and they regularly hold conferences once a week. You have no statements about the party activities of the SRS in Belgrade, and we have regular activities, and promotions of the books of Vojislav Seselj, and blue caravans, and all those activities that are common, and division of our material, newspapers, etc. Every time we notify both here and the other TVs, but of course there's no information about it, so we have three or four people gathered from some youth of the Democratic Party, that there's Chad's wings, then we have a contribution of ten minutes to the breaking news at 22 hours. So, the introduction of order into the media in this way is impossible and it would be good if the minister were here to listen, not to get into a situation like all of his colleagues, to talk to him, as we talked to him when he talked here two months ago, when we talked about the Public Information Act, not to pass a law that is in collegiate with this law. He says if you adopt that one, then we'll change this one. It is simply amazing how unserious and arrogant the government of the Republic of Serbia is towards the MPs and this House. The minister today said, at the very least, a strange sentence that RTS will become a public service when the first subscription to RTS is paid. It is indeed something that no one can interpret in the way the minister wanted to interpret it and ask him who it is that makes it possible for RTS to make public service, in the true sense of public service. He doesn't expect that from the former minister of July, today's director of RTS. In particular, it is illogical that RTS's public company status is given a first payment and I guess they would be sure that they will also receive that first payment then the government predicts that the RTS subscription is charged through an electricity bill. It's just amazing, and it's amazing, of course, that a subscription is being introduced, regardless of what kind of comments were made today that are now returning the subscription to RTS at the time that this subscription was made. You know, and the citizens of Serbia know, you may not admit it, because you live well, but unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia live very badly and are much harder now to pay the 300 dinar subscription you are predicting, than it was a subscription from the time you were so opposed to having based an election campaign at RTS and you won the 2000 election against RTS subscription. You lied to Serbian citizens, deceived Serbian citizens. That's when they showed you confidence, and when they do, you'll have to wait for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18476	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, and then the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18477	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, somewhere in the mid-1990s small political parties are beginning to join and fight to win over local authorities in Serbia. Parties of different political programmes, beliefs, people who didn't speak to each other until yesterday, who hate each other deeply, but who unite one goal. It is necessary in Serbia in all areas of the bar to win power, in order to create a springboard to win power in Serbia. Their program was unique. Wherever they performed on every stands, visiting houses, on some public media, it was whatever the citizens were looking for, we'll promise. Citizens say -- we're not good at this street, they say -- we're going to build a new street, and then in some village with 200 residents they say -- we want a department store, we want a department store, we want this, we want this, we want it, the media is going to be open, the media is going to be open, there's going to be experts, there's going to be journalists who know their job, there's not going to be party controls and disciplines. Then the citizens say -- we're having a hard time living, and the biggest problem is that, in addition to this hard life, with this electricity that we're paying for and which is expensive, we have to pay for the TV subscription. Then they tell the citizens of Serbia -- yes, it is the biggest thief, we will immediately lift the TV subscription, as soon as we come to power. Demonstrations begin, sherpas begin, routing starts during the Serbian TV diaries one or two, storms begin. So even those who wanted to watch that diary couldn't watch, and so they understood their democracy, to restrict my right and to distract me from what I wanted to see. A wise man from Nis, former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, went one step further. He urged citizens not to pay their electricity bills because they contained the amount of the RTS subscription. He brought his famous Partisan barrels, they threw bills, they burned it today, partly and therefore, the Nish citizens have debts for spent electricity, with interest rates of over 500,000 dinars, over a million dinars, and really Nis is the city with the biggest bills. Then it happened that they won local power in many of Serbia's environments. What did they do first? They occupied existing local television stations, appointed their directors, editors-in-chiefs, and in those places where there were no television, they immediately created new television stations and began unfeeling propaganda on their way to the conquest of power. I remember an example from Nis, a low television public company, which should be a public service, an editor member of the SPO, a member of the SPO, the chairman of the DS board, was on the board of directors of both the DSS and other political parties. And then famous Vojkan Milenkovic, when, for all time, then the editor-in-chief of television, called to the guests of Vukadrašković. Imperial chairs are purchased specifically for this purpose and the show begins where Vojkan Milenkovic asks Vuk Draskovic - is that Vuke, that you predicted this 10 years ago. He says-- well, yeah, you know, but... Even the Wolf is uncomfortable and you can imagine what it was. The next question - is that they're pulling that genius strategy and genius policy. It begins to praise politicians in power. What local television is doing in local communities is doing RTS, of course, on one global level. And there are the characters of many political parties that are in power, there are all but no radicals. Here is the case, while Vojislav Seselj is fighting decisively for Serbia, for our future, state television is dealing with some peripheral stuff and pictures of some people drinking coffee in a coffee shop and talking to some singers. Ladies and gentlemen, we Serbian radicals cannot believe that those who have turned on television, that those who have abused television for political purposes and today do so, can make this television public good, or public service. That's practically impossible. As they occupied local television, they were made by public companies, many private individuals saw each other, and they began to make their own television stations. There are at least 15 TV stations and at least 20 radio stations in Nis at this time. You are responsible for the chaos in radio broadcasting for those who were at the time in the local government, and now you are in power in Serbia. You can only correct the mistakes you've made and ruined this system for years. We thought there must be at least three ministers here today, Minister of Information, Minister Dinkic and Minister Velja Ilic. If Minister Dinkic told us what to do with the money that has been given so far, what to do next. The fact that he has some conflict with Davinic over who will control the army, it does not interest us Serbian radicals. We need him here. We need to talk about some very important things now, and that's why it takes a few ministers to be here. How are you going to charge the subscription? You're not going over that electricity subscription. It's already been seen and you criticized it. I suggest you do it another way. Let's say my friend, a party colleague, you forbid lawyer Petar Jojic from representing the parties in front of the court until he pays a TV subscription, you forbid someone else to hire a workforce until he pays a TV subscription, threaten civil servants to quit until they pay a TV subscription, make up some way, because this way will no longer go away, you'll have a lot of lawsuits, because citizens will refuse to pay for it. In the end, I'd like to say a few more things. There are a lot of big problems in the KDS area. We invited Minister Velju Ilic to tell us what he thinks about it. He says a group of thieves and criminals have arrived, who are wildly and unauthorized into the system, take money, charge, give nothing, rob the state and amount abroad. However, we officially address the ministry's letter and we get from Deputy Minister Velja Ilic that all of this is fine, that the SBB helped Serbia, that he hired a large number of young and professional people. Then Velya comes and says - he knows nothing, I took away his right to sign, I'll take him down, I'll arrest the thieves and criminals. He didn't arrest anyone, he didn't replace anyone, he didn't banish anyone, SBB, Soros continues to expand, rob this country, and take the money. It is my right to conclude that Velja Ilic is working with him, and his deputy ministers and ministerial assistants, and all those who do not take any action to regulate the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18478	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18479	This amendment to the law could in the right way reflect the nature and character of this government, so-called. coalition authorities, authorities of continuity. Not only that, but ultimately, it clearly shows that this government in the coming period has the intention of simply making solutions if it is forced to do so. Whether it's coercion or coercion from the IMF, or from other sides, and we can see in the extreme that there's some internal pressure. Internal pressure stems from the ignorance of this government. Such an amendment and an amendment to the law has rarely been decided by the government to propose to parliament for debate, and I think that in the future, no authority, especially the one in which the majority coalition partner is SRS, will allow even state officials to go with such proposals, not to parliament, but also to the session as usual. Why? Because in this amendment and the addition of the law, the Government clearly shows how recklessly it passed the law that this supplement should change. So he admits that in a situation that was funny, some of my colleagues used to say, when President of the Assembly was practically playing Susan Mancic, it was inconclusive. Whether he played his part well or badly, it's now a matter of debate and opinion, and attitude, but the point is that such an interesting game costs this country dearly. If you, in the way of hats or using any other method, determine the names and last names, and mandates of members of a body, then you must be aware of your responsibilities, personal participation in all of this, especially at the time when both this change and supplement is recognised as being this way, not only of choice but also of the functioning of that body impossible. On the other hand, we are witnessing that something that is interesting in any case is in the draft of this law or amendments, which is that, when the government found and came up with previously known data that is impossible from the budget, from the budget funds to finance state media or radio-television, and especially when the director and most editors are no longer in that house under the control of the finance minister and senior officials in this government, the government has come to realize that a new old method has been introduced, but tried, to introduce the subscription over a number or otherwise. In fact, the government announces that it will already give advance information to Serbian citizens that it will share them with those who spend more or less electricity or phone impulses, so we will not be witnesses to pay commitments to what they say to public service, based on the use of public service services, but rather it will be logical whether someone involved the oven, and someone involved the ring, whether someone is just using lamps and will pay so much for the public service. It is something that may be precedentd, precedentd in terms of what this large part of the government used in 2000 to be one of the most important critics and the most prominent, when it comes to the former regime, put exactly how Serbia's Radio-Television was paid and financed. So that it would not be exactly the same, in essence, that it would not be about aesthetic changes, whether this or that minister was headed by the ministry, they realized that a house, a Serbian Radio-Television, had been declared public service. Public service could, when you're already working on amending and supplementing the law, be generalizing and be for all the biggest television houses, because basically, when it comes to editorial policy, when it comes to how these television houses work and function, the fundamental difference is only in the number and content of commercials, so you have a difference in advertising where BK television is more advertised "are not newspapers and is bought in a kiosk", regardless of what the law forbids cigarette advertising. On the other hand, you have, comparisons and comparisons to work, on Serbian Radio-Television more represented ads than government and pro-government firms and business partners, so we have recently been bombed by a commercial announcing the big door entry of Croatian capital. The capital has no national or any coloring, but this is very significant that through national television it is imposed as a quality and the only possible alternative to eating or cooling the nation, "frikomov" ice cream, and then taken over by other channels of this national television. That's the fundamental difference. As far as editorial policy is concerned, the position of the SRS is known. We've never interfered with any radio or television house's editorial policy. That, after all, will always be assessed by the citizens. It was always a success or a stumbling block for political parties. This coalition government obviously intends to apply one already tried recipe, which is that in the morning, when the citizens of Serbia, what little they do, in the morning of shaving, has the honour of hearing what is the leader of the political parties from the coalition government and in the evening to be sent to sleep by the restoring ministers, by organising these shows of humorous and fun character, where the ministers from their resors represent Serbia in which we do not live, which they present to us through a small screen. What you try and intend to do will quickly check how good it is, how effective it is, and how successful you will be when elections are discussed. But something that in any case points to the true nature and character of this government is also this proposal to extend the deadline for privatising local radios and TV stations. Why? Because you always make these short-term, reckless solutions, which are very expensive. First of all, you've laid down the deadline for the local media to be abolished. You made a commitment to be in 2006, when it must be accessible to privatization of these public enterprises or local media, and now you are extending the deadline. Why? Obviously, the assessment is based not on an economic and rational fact, but on your political interest. You're counting on quick elections, at least the local media to use as part of your propaganda machine, so that you can introduce yourself to a few other municipalities where you've stayed in power in something better. You are mistaken, gentlemen, not only are the polls of public opinion polls showing that your ratings are dropping, but you go out to the street and see what ordinary citizens who are on the streets are thinking about your political parties, and especially about your political leaders, who have recently hit Serbia with intra-party conflicts and disputes. What we must not lose sight of, in any case, is that you are directly harming the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by means of budgets that would potentially be earned if privatisation was carried out, i.e. the sale of these local media. I am confused here by the views of individual colleagues who continue to take for themselves the exclusive right that they are the only representatives and representatives of one part of the territory that is within Serbia, which is the AP Vojvodina. When are you going to get that floscule, that political prank to get out of your head, gentlemen? Who gave you the right to always from this pay phone as an on-call argument and an adjudicate or that your quasi-state right to be the only guardians for all of us living in Vojvodina, and on the other hand, if you don't have that argument, that you're always calling on one name and last name and I'm really getting bored with you. When you have nothing to say, when you're out of ideas, you run right away, you who, in most cases, should be ashamed of what happened and what happened to that man, always drag his name and his name as an argument. But let's put it aside, it's going to be your intrapolitical faction to solve and conflict within your political party, but what's good is that neither the Ministry has accepted the right, as some have suggested, that the AP has the right to veto. Isn't it the best example for you from that, as you say, democratic options, the Radio-Television of Novi Sad? It's a private, political, party bulletin. If you're watching Novi Sad Radio, see what their programming scheme is, what their editorial policy is -- did Chanak travel anywhere, did he come back, did he drink coffee with that semi-written president of the Assembly or not to tell the President of the Executive Council. Is that what the citizens of Vojvodina are interested in? Is that your picture? Is that a demonstration of how you imagine media freedom and editorial policy? After all, if individuals had their cheeks, as the people say, if the goat knew what shame would have a longer tail, they wouldn't speak of democracy, the fluids of democracy, because as editors of certain local radio stations, they were trying to prove on the case and prove that a radio station could operate in a non-democratic way. And as for patriotism, don't you gentlemen who were editors of local radio stations to talk about patriotism. You can talk about how full your mouth was of praise for Franjo Tudjman, his wise and cunning policy, and you can talk about how you encouraged international hatred and intolerance in the work of Serbia called Vojvodina. You can talk about it, and you're a real example of everything that's been negative. Besides, you failed that exam. Your editorial policy, which you presented at RTS, has helped the people to go to elections and "take you off" from power, and you'd better cover yourself or clear up within that party faction, and you who ring behind my back are no better at the work of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18480	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. I know a lot of people get in the way of the law, but it has to be by law and by the Rules of Procedure. So, since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, we have a replica of Mr. Vukosav Tomasevic, the authorised representative, and then you appear as an authorised representative -- those 10 minutes? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18481	For accurate information to viewers who, due to a large number of times, follow this programme, therefore does not introduce this government and this proposal to amend and supplement the law of subscription. The subscription was introduced by a law adopted in this assembly, if my memory holds, on July 22, 2002, so three years ago, except for the fact that it has not been brought into practice so far. The second thing is not to pay the subscription on the basis of whether the oven works, whether the ring works and how many lamps "burn" in the household, but the law clearly prescribed a fixed subscription to the radio and TV receiver of 210 dinars. So, just so that our viewers know, even if those who intend to pay a TV subscription. When we talk about Vojvodina, there's one more thing to explain. And that's how he manipulates himself. No one is, I repeat, against the protection of minority rights, even the rights in the field of information. We're all for mechanisms that protect those rights. Even acquired rights in this area. But not only in Vojvodina, but in all of Serbia. There's a difference in the political view between you and us. We want it to be in all of Serbia, and you're asking for it only for Vojvodina. I repeat -- you're not asking for this because of minorities, you're asking for your autonomy policy to strengthen your autonomous position, and you're looking for a variant and an opportunity to block the implementation of this law throughout the territory. Now, that can't be. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18482	Thank you, Mr. Tomasevic. So I am now asking whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to do so. Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the DS, you have 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18483	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Minister in absentia, in the afternoon discussion, I spoke about the reasons why the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will not support amendments and additions to the Radio-Difusion Act. The discussion that was conducted in this congregation just confirmed some of the thesis that I was able to say in the first 10 minutes. So, the fact is he's trying to challenge the transformation process and the deobic balance and thus compromise the proposed changes. This intention is the first indicator to re-long everything, and there is no responsibility for the deadlines so far that are not respected, as well as for future deadlines, which will eventually be adopted by amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act. The Democratic Party's stance is that the principle of inaction can no longer be tolerated, one of the main characteristics of the current government, the lack of strategy and the non-implementation of the law. Of course, balance and transformation must be done. However, changes are acceptable if other persons are involved in the business, not the current management and current RTS board. The changes are also acceptable if the weather is synchronised with the introduction of a TV subscription. So, first the transformation, then the subscription. Otherwise, changes and deadlines are not acceptable because, as proposed, there is a negative public opinion of the profession. The diversity of the duration of the term of office is complete nonsense and I will not talk about it. Another prolonging of the deadlines for the media privatisation process, which in itself is complicated due to unclear ownership structure and different media formats, integrated mainly in a local information centre, tolerates the complete absence of responsibility. The government's resolution ministry has already moved deadlines through the same procedure once before nothing was done. During the period of entry into election activities, the proposed changes opened a space for the strong influence of the current authorities on the media, which is not acceptable from the aspect of DS - Boris Tadic. Accepting changes without a clear line under someone's unhappiness is not rational. We note that the professional organisations of journalists and media employees in the majority opposed these changes with different motives and explanations, and therefore the DS cannot support these proposed changes. With regard to the proposal for piracy, i.e. increasing the mandate, the DS considers such an approach to be generally acceptable because it is in line with European values. However, we point to the almost complete absence of precise determination and definition in the law of the concepts themselves, the scope, the content of the work for which the proposal increases penalties. We refer to the conclusions of the Management Board of Media Association, and to the consideration of the principles and measures of protection of intellectual property in the media. Along with the Institute for Intellectual Property of Serbia-Montenegro and SOKOJ, a CD will be created whose content is a precise definition of terms - copyright, types of copyright, ways of protection, etc. So much for this part of the proposed changes. Of course, we have our own concept and recommendations for the transformation of RTS. I have already made some remarks, and the goal is to create one respectable national television by forming two strong TV brands, TV Belgrade 1, as a first-class information and entertainment channel, and TV Belgrade 2, as a discover canal, facing interesting education and culture, etc. There are a whole series of these, but it's too short a time to put out here a complete restructuring strategy and preparation for the transition to the public service of RTS. Two more questions on which the spear was broken are so-called. The fee on the count, because, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a TV subscription, it's a fee on the count. TV subscription is like in Europe when they pay for the possession of TV receivers, and this is a tax on the possession of electric numbers. What if someone has a cottage so they turn on the aggregate and watch the TV program, and it doesn't have an electric counter. He won't pay, and he'll use the favor that brought this in. (Zoran Krasic - battery tax? ) It is also likely that a battery charge will be introduced, as Mr Krasic says. On the other hand, under Article 52. The constitution of every citizen is obliged to pay taxes and taxes introduced by law. Therefore, there is a possibility that TV subscription is paid in the way that it was once done, that through incasans, through payment cards, simply people know what they are paying for. I've got a reaction here from one part of the EPS, and that's the Electro-Vojvodina. And we also need to take care of the Elektroprivred of Serbia that has waved such a demand for future, over the fee on the count, pay for TV subscription, and which has sent its response to, among other things, the Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr. Radomir Naumov. Well, just like the topic of thought -- what they say about announcements that you will again charge a fee on the count. "On the basis of the knowledge and experience of the previous number tax period, electricity consumers have a particularly negative view of the billing of RTV subscriptions, so the tax on the number through the electricity bill. It's very well known to everyone. The introduction of a RT subscription will help consumers form a negative attitude towards Serbia's Elektroprivred, which is extremely unnecessary at a time when it is in the recovery phase, especially at a turning point in restructuring. Experience has shown that a number of consumers will refuse to pay radio TV subscription and will self-initiately reduce the payment of bills for spent electricity, which will reduce the rate of charge. The introduction of a tv subscription requires additional recruitment of employees in sales and information services, especially in the part of keeping records, adapting and maintaining software solutions for the calculation of electricity already in operation. "The biggest disfavor would be for low-consumption consumers whose accounts are less than the envisioned RTV subscription. By the way, I'm saying that this subscription is foreseen, just when the Raidodysion Act was passed, to some 210 dinars, and even some increase was foreseen that would be approximately - a rise in prices to a little plus 5% every year. Even if the full amount of this would be charged, the question is how much and then public service could function only with those funds. For example, there are 102 thousand in Vojvodina of such consumers, which spend less than is intended for a radio-television subscription, i.e. a fee on a number. Of the 778 thousand consumers' household group, which makes up 13%, this group would account for a RTV subscription by more than 100 per cent compared to what makes them an electricity bill. The letter noted that "especially in the continuity of Vojvodina, electricity is the highest charge and that more than 95% of citizens are zealously meeting their obligations, mainly in general. Thus, more than half of the total funds collected for RTS subscription in one accounting period in the territory of the entire Elektroprivreda of Serbia could be from citizens from the territory covered by the EPS, the Public Enterprise of Elektrovodina Novi Sad. "This is said in a memo sent, among other things by the Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr. Naumov. I don't know what kind of command methods that would be, because we know that they're going to enter the privatisation process and the EPS, it's possible that one day when there's a privatisation in this area, there's a subscription. So you need to think about the future and about some way that would be more suitable to collect TV subscriptions. A lot of controversy has also led to an attitude around the so-called so-called. The veto of a member proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly. The proposed amendments abolish the veto of a member of the Council, who was elected on a proposal from the AP Vojvodina, to decisions of the Council relating to the territory of the province. The existing legal solution is the result, firstly, of a political agreement between the republican and provincial authorities, reached prior to the adoption of the 2002 law, that is, a compromise that the province's authorities gave up on a special Vojvodina regulatory body, and secondly, last year's rapid and perverse amendments to the law. By unbiasing political agreements behind which the Assembly stood in 2002, there is a potential political problem, it ignores the fact that the Vojvodina Constitution of Serbia recognises and its statutes establish certain competences in the field of public information, and shows a lack of understanding of the realisticly different problems and needs that Vojvodina has as a multiethnic environment. A similar memo came from the Regional Information Committee of the Vojvodina Assembly. "It is not exactly an explanation in which it is said that this provision is unsustainable if it comes from the fact that the Republican Broadcasting Agency is exercising its competence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a single state. Since all decisions relating to the territory of the Republic of Serbia also apply to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it comes out that a member of the Council of the AP Vojvodina may use its right established by Article 32(3) of the Law and to all decisions of the Council concerning the whole of the Republic. This argument is not true, because the provision to be deleted simply states that the Council's decision on the territory of the AP Vojvodina is considered to be made if it is within the required number of votes for its adoption and the vote of a member of the Council elected on the proposal of the mandated applicant from the AP Vojvodina." I think a happier solution could be found, let's say, to introduce some kind of provision when a strategy for the development of broadcasting in Serbia or when decisions concerning the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which are not directly concerned with the Republic, but rather about the Vojvodina broadcasting institution, could have stood in the law, let's say, that a consensus of all members is needed, and then members would be within the Council equal, thus preventing majorisation. I'm sorry, just two more sentences. There are representatives of the DSS, and they could read from a theoretical piece written by their party president Vojislav Kostunica, where he quoted Milan Grol, otherwise one of the most prominent people the DS has ever given, where he says decentralisation, and even the federalisation of a state, is the only right to defend every separatist. If you're not taking someone's jurisdiction that he should naturally have, he has no reason to object to a center. If you force them on him, then naturally be separatism in him. These centralist tendencies, after all that's happened to us, that we don't have any jurisdiction over the part of our territory of Kosovo and Metohija, remind me of one thing, maybe someone would say it's not true, because then federal Yugoslavia wouldn't fall apart, but of course, Germany won't have Baden Virtenberg and will never secede, even though they have a federal state of some authority that has both independent and sovereign states. Therefore, I fear that all those who advocate centralization in all areas and the confiscation of acquired rights cannot, in fact, free themselves from the communist heritage in their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18484	Replica, mentioned DSS, authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18485	I understand that this topic and this debate also have a political connotation because of the importance the media has in Serbia's political life. But I don't understand the need to be false here. Several times, the previous speaker, whom I otherwise value as a correct colleague, mentioned a fee on the count, would be paid a fee on the number of counts. That's absolutely incorrect. For the sake of true publicity, I will read the decadent provisions of the laws relating to the TV subscription. Those are the provisions of Art. 80, 81 and 83, and I repeat that they were passed in 2002, when most DOS were here and when the law was proposed by the late Prime Minister Djindjic's government. He says: "For the financing of the activity of public broadcasting service institutions, which relate to the achievement of the general interest set out in this law, a radio-television subscription is paid. Radio owners and TV receivers have a obligation to pay radio and television subscriptions to the public broadcasting system. Radio owners and TV receivers pay a single radio-television subscription in the same amount in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Radiotelevision subscription is paid on radio and TV receivers, therefore, not on numbers, "by household and receivers connected to collective antennas or connected to cable systems. Household, owner of two or more receivers, other than the receivers in the motor vehicle, shall pay the subscription to only one radio or TV receiver at the same address. Hotels and motels pay subscription to every 10 rooms equipped with TV or radio reception, and every other legal person, owner of TV receivers, pays subscription to every 20 employees who are able to receive the program. The amount of the monthly subscription for household receivers and receivers used by legal persons shall be 210 dinars. The height of the annual subscription for the receiver in the motor vehicle shall be 440 dinars. The fee referred to in Article 1(1) shall be paid monthly, no later than 15 in the month for the previous month. The fee referred to in Article 2(2) shall be paid annually, with a special payment, on registration of the motor vehicle." There are also tax examples of who can be freed from a TV subscription. So there's no numbers anywhere, no ovens, no rings, no light bulbs. And even in this bill of law that we're discussing today, there's no such thing as subscription at all. We only have one amendment that the government subsequently sent, which we can, and we don't have to adopt, which suggests that the EPS will make this payment, and it says: "The payment of the radio-television subscription takes place through the Public Enterprise "Electrodistribution of Serbia" Belgrade, in a manner established by the contract between RTS and the public enterprise". So there's no mention of a number, there's another way. If anyone has a better way, if you opposition have a different way, suggest, we're open and we'll adopt it. When it comes to the rights of the Vojvodina and when you quote Grol, it is true that Grol talks about decentralisation, and the DSS is for decentralisation, you know it well, but decentralisation of Serbia is not the autonomy of Vojvodina. You need to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18486	The theoretical debates will be collegiate. Do anyone else by Article 93. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a principled search, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll quote me a member. No, I'm sorry. It was a replica of Mr. Stanimirovic's presentation. I won't let you, because by Article 101, in order to make a decision, of course, if, in the presentation of Mr Tomasevic, you recognized the wrong interpretation of what you were saying. Here's to article 101, replica law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18487	I thank the chairman. Among other things, I would just like to explain, since in my part of the discussion there was just a subscription, i.e. a fee on the count, so in that part I recognized what Mr. Tomašević was saying. Indeed, the DS thinks it's a number tax. And you said yourself, the government's proposal is that the subscription is being collected the way we've had it in public in the last few days to see it. RTS started with public companies in the process of agreeing how and how to solve the problem of collecting subscription, and you have seen in the past days that EPS has even reacted in some cases bile, angry. And now we have had the opportunity to hear the letter of the people of Elektrovodina, who feel that the way to pick up the subscription over an electric dial is not acceptable to them. They found the most ideal way to tell the public, including the MPs and the government, that it would cause anger among their consumers, or citizens of Serbia. But in fact, it was translated into actually a number tax, and that's why the DS is against it. We cannot accept solutions that really resemble the solutions we had from the time of Milosevic's rule. Try, once again, I'm telling you to transform the public service, the RTS, and only then to talk about where this subscription is going to be and how it's going to be collected. You quoted the proposal very well, or the law, but you didn't talk about how to collect the subscription. You've avoided that part of the law to say that the Republic Broadcasting Agency is the one that collects the subscription and deals with public enterprises in the district to collect the subscription. Therefore, you have now given the EPS the right to collect the subscription, by making it a big problem for Serbian citizens. And that's why we say, it's an imposition, it's not a subscription, it's not solved the way you predicted. Therefore, it is unacceptable. If we now color the problem you've made with bright colors and say, yes, that looks like what's in Milosevic's time, it really looks like and it's unacceptable for DS. You can try to explain to the Serbian public that it is not a tax on numbers. It is an electricity tax in all forms, however you want to baptize it, but it really calls DS a tax on electricity and electricity for citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-24-0.u18488	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. Indeed, in the future, I will give warnings about this kind of insult to the congregation. If we are able to collegiately enable something to be done, even if you are able to pass through the Rules of Procedure, be kind, call the Rules of Procedure and find at least a minimal link between at least what we are calling for. Otherwise, it will be impossible to run the Assembly by the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking for a minimum of understanding. I'm finishing the initial search. Tomorrow, work will continue at 10.00 hours of discussion on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, and I am now informing from collegiation that it will most likely be done by the end of the discussion in particular, and then the sessions will not be held on Friday, so that you can schedule your commitments. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, in any case more than one third of the MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have no notice that anyone was prevented from attending the session. Since the National Assembly has completed its search in principle on all the draft laws on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, followed by a search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON VISOKOM EDUCATION (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Ljiljana Nestorović, Meho Omerović, Aleksandar Đorđević, Milorad Mirčić, Milan Stević, Bozidar Koprivica, Branislav Rankić, Petar Jojić, Milan Vjesinović, Vjerica Rade, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanović, Veroljub Arsic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Tomislav Penezić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Vrijetica Rade, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Mašić, Miljević and Žilić Šilić, Žilnovrović, Žilić Šilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žilić. Slavić. The amendment was written by the MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović on Article 90, Dragoljub Zivkovic on Articles 29 and 90, Milan Marković on Articles 10, 29, 38, 41, 49, 61, 63, 64, 65, 68, 75, 90 and 98, Dragoljub Hiber on Article 14, Zarko Obradović, Milisav Petronijevic on Articles 10, 29, 38, 41, 49, 49, 61, 63, 64, 65, 68, 75, 90 and 98, Žarko Obradović on Members 48, 53, 70 and 72, Zarko Obradović on Members 32, 34, 40, 71, 120 and 130, Milisav Petronijevic on Members 63, 75 and 104 and Zoran Angelkovic and Zvir Stević on Article 109. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, Proposer Slobodan Vuksanovic, Minister of Education and Sports, withdrew amendments by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 15, 25, 28, 29, 30, 35, 37, 78 and 95. Also, at the meeting of the Committee on Education of the Amendments, MPs Milan Markovic withdrew to members 83, 84 and 85, and Velimir Simonovic to members 118 and 130, and to the title above Articles 131 and 131. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia and MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 3rd amendment, in the same text. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here is the word of the People's Messenger Mileta Poscurica, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
