ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 152 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Radojko Obradović, Goran Svilanovic, Zarko Korac, Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Belic and Vladan Vukicevic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly exclusively for Friday, as well as within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda act, which in this request for the third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 established 104 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was convened at the request of 104 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. A motion for a resolution to facilitate the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, halting the persecution of his family, which 104 MPs submitted. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION ON THE PROGRAMME OF THE DEFENCE OF THE FREE MILOSEVIC IN THE HAG, WITHOUT THE PROGRESSION OF HIS FAMILY You have received a motion for a resolution, which was submitted by 104 MPs. I remind you, in accordance with Article 156(3) of Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, five minutes each, based on Article 89. item 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that for this point, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will be Milorad Vucelic. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search. Does the proposing representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's extraordinary session and this item of the agenda are not called, as some media purposely announce, at the request of Slobodan Milosevic, but at the request of Slobodan Milosevic; the application sent to me first, and then to all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, which Slobodan Milosevic was convinced he would understand what this is all about. I'm glad 104 MPs understood what this was about, and I'm going to try to convince you that you have the same opinion and to convince you to express your opinion. Today's session is a sort of test and a face-to-face with the understanding of democracy and human rights. You have a lot of it written on paper, you have a lot of it secured by resolutions, you have behind you the electoral will of the citizens, who put this government together in some way. Of course, if someone had asked voters before the election if they voted individually for these political parties, which could then make a coalition for the government, you wouldn't have such a government, but I respect the legitimacy of the National Assembly to change the will of the voters. It always turns out in some next election. A test of democracy's perception, especially after the five-octobaric events in 2000. It was then that democracy was all that supported the West. That's when the American export democracy entered Serbia; like Jova, it's not like the ox; so what in America cannot, in Serbia, have to be applied. On October 5th, he started a shootout with many people in Serbia, primarily with Slobodan Milosevic, his family and his political party. It was the first planned to strike a blow past democracy. Slobodan Milosevic is an unconstitutional regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been declared by the Constitutional Court, which is why you haven't taken a single step today, delivered to The Hague and Serbia's launched story that people are going to The Hague to prove their innocence, that The Hague is the purgatory that we all have to go through, that after that we will experience reincarnation and we will all be small Europeans, so we will grow until we reach normal Europeans. By going to The Hague, Milosevic began his fight with his family. That's what hurts me the most. The calculation with his family began by those who never had any damage from Milosevic, who agreed with him that Serbia would look after October 5th and who are then and today, and are now full of the mouth of democracy. Milosevic had an accident not to be there to defend his family. Otherwise, many families were threatened, but we who were their fathers, hosts, were there, so it was a little awkward to hit on our families when it was known that we were going to defend them. Let's just do a little dyspression. I will never forget an article in "Evening News", published three days after Vojislav Seselj's departure to The Hague, a voluntary departure, which you long for now for every defendant. The title was, "Batarina breathed away." Neighbors happy, left Vojislav Seselj, who was causing trouble at Batajnica. It was a sign that we should also go after the family of Vojislav Seselj and his children, and his grandson. Vojislav Seselj had a Serbian Radical Party behind him, which at the most difficult time managed to ensure peace and security for his family. Milosevic didn't have that luck. Not long after Milosevic left for The Hague, his family was torn apart throughout Europe. I'm not getting into it. It's not my place to get into what those judgments looked like. I knew nothing about it, as well as none of you, as well as 90% of Serbian citizens, to whom it was enough to tell Milosevic, and no longer being investigated. He was just wondering if he was killed? Mira Markovic, was she arrested or killed? Marko Milosevic, was arrested or killed, over. It's reached its own daughter-in-law, which is condemned, I think, by some judgment. Perhaps he is awaiting the adulthood of his grandson, so that he too may be condemned, for he is the grandson of someone who was chosen by the people. Nor can one be privileged to belong to the family of a chosen man, nor must he be punished only because he belongs to his family. I didn't know on the basis of what evidence Marko Milosevic was convicted of. When Sloba called me from The Hague and asked me to get involved, he didn't ask for a revision of the verdict, and he asked me to just read the files from the trial, and then he said, "Do it by conscience," and you're both father and grandfather. That's when I found out that this man was convicted for nothing. I received a report from the MUP saying that it suspected that Marko Milosevic smuggled tobacco, this, what, involved in smuggling, in crime, but I did not read anywhere that any prosecutor filed a criminal complaint, that anyone had brought proceedings against Mark Milosevic for crimes, which SUP says there is a suspicion that he was dealing with it. But a court case has been conducted, a court farce, which will remain recorded in anals. It was possible because it was the case of Marko Milosevic, whom I personally did not know, and I have never seen him, it was possible that the judge would say to the injured person that was committed to the crime, at the trial in which the verdict was given - you said at the trial today that Marko Milosevic did not threaten you with a motor saw; I am not considering that statement, but I am taking the statement given in the investigation when you said he threatened you with a motor saw. I wouldn't want any of you 250, or any of the millions of Serbian citizens to meet a judge who'll say what you're saying in court right now, I'm not taking you into account, I'm taking into account what you said when you were arrested. I don't really want to do that to anyone. The verdict was the basis for issuing a European arrest warrant for which Marko Milosevic could not return to Serbia for four years, because he would also be arrested by a new authority that has not yet declared the case at all, and especially by European authorities, especially in the Netherlands, if he went to visit his father. The warrant for Mira Markovic is nonsensical, absurd, even SUP and does not inform that she has committed some crimes, they suspect, she is said to have committed some crimes. It is said that an APB was issued because it was accused of inciting Secretary Zivko Knezevic to encourage the president of the Residential Commission, Branislav Ivkovic, to give the housing commission to her grandson's nanny. The SUP acknowledges in its report that many European countries have not accepted the warrant, does not want to say which because modern democratically, European legislation does not know such a crime. I wish he didn't even know Serbian legislation. I wish that when you're suing this frog of ours, it looks like Europe, where happiness and that horseshoe that you hit and you said -- it can't be the one who encouraged someone else to do it, and then it affects the committee, which has multiple members, to make some kind of decision. Now, let me remind you, with your pacifier, you've made your own decisions. You gave yourself a villa to someone who didn't have the right to do it. You had some other reasons. Someone had other reasons. Put everything on the same "cantar", when a canary is harvested, let it apply to every citizen of Serbia, not one cantar under the counter for us, and one public for those against whom we have something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12751	Mr. Nikolic, are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12752	I'm using another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12753	Excuse me, you're on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12754	It's not worth it. I won't explain it to you. You've never hurt the Rules of Procedure. And yesterday I watched that farce from voting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Whatever you tell me. If you tell me another minute, okay, if you tell me to get out of the O.R., I'll get out of the O.R. Anything is possible for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12755	Let me tell you-- keep talking because you're an authorized promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12756	Thank you. I thanked the former presidents, so I stayed in the assembly, and they're gone. Now I would like to enter into the measure of things, in what is most important in all of this, in which I see the greatest sin of today's government in the Republic of Serbia. The defence of Slobodan Milosevic is under way, carrying out his evidence, hearing his witnesses. If you have time to look, if you don't have some videos at home, you all have VCRs. You've got good wages, you've got VCRs. Record it and look at it in the evening, it can seem sobering to many people. The intellectual summit of Serbian – philosophical, political, economic, legal – defends Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague. Many who have never agreed with him in their lives are aware that Serbia is defending itself there. Absolutely superior to Europe, and I'm proud of it the most. Each of Milosevic's witnesses there was superior to Europe, compared to a world trying to condemn Slobodan Milosevic, because it was simply incomparable. That's not the kind of mind Europe has. Such minds are not servants of Slobodan Milosevic, but are servants of Serbia and are going to The Hague for Serbia. Milosevic should defend himself well, have the opportunity to defend himself well, and you do not give him that opportunity. Whoever is your parent knows that Milosevic cannot enter his defence 100%. He's worried about why he doesn't see his son, why he doesn't see his wife, why his family is separated from the world by prosecutions, and if he'll ever meet again? With many of the moves that are hinting here, along with the formation of some court in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will be tried by our citizens, with the story that our citizens will be tried in Croatia, with what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, with what will happen in other parts of Serbia, with the fallen morale of the military and police, with the hopelessness of those who lead the country because they cannot decide on rigorous moves, we are now left to enjoy it if Milosevic is convicted of war crimes and genocide. Who's going to be convicted? Milosevic's voters? There were 60% of them enrolled. It's Serbia. Let him vote for a candidate today, 60% of the eligible voters, I'll say – that's Serbia. And Tito was Serbia in your day, and you didn't miss anything, and then you got fat. That's not where I fall into the trap you're walking into, you fake nationalists, Democrats, patriots, patriots. If for you Ivan Stambolic was the president of Serbia, Tito was the president of Yugoslavia. I'm saying, there was no choice in communism, but we suffered whoever was elected, and you're singled out from communism by some people you claim to have been chosen, even though there were no rivals, and some of you think you're running. Now, if I'd seen you in May of 1991 at the House of Flowers, to get Tito out of the grave and send him to Croatia, I would have congratulated you now, but I didn't see you there then. I am speaking to a representative of the ruling party whose position I am very interested in. [[Why didn't you take it out?]] You don't even know who else will be in The Hague, maybe one of us, or maybe one of you. If you have said somewhere that Serbs should be defended in Krajina, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, you are on the list. Now it's just your behavior that depends whether you're in The Hague or not. If you've been watching the public television log, and if patriotism is widespread there, the morale of the people is up, and if you thought it was right, you're for The Hague. It has long been said that there are now more honest people in The Hague than in the Serbian Parliament. I said it, and I'm not ashamed to say it. There is already a better General Staff there, and better police command, and better heads of state and president of government than we have here in Serbia. By taking the West to the better, but not to the bridge where our heads are cut, but to The Hague, the West has condemned us to choose worse and worse. We may choose the best from those in Serbia, but they are getting worse and worse. And I'm picking myself up in the SRS because he's got a better radical than I am, he's the only one in The Hague. I'm a worse version, I'm counting you guys who throw, and you don't even know what this is all about, you don't know what they're doing to you in these 15 days by showing up those people who've embarrassed you in public. But, well, I didn't come here to study. I came only to fulfill the obligation, which I would fulfill towards the family of any of you and any of the citizens of Serbia who spoke to me on the street. You must have a soul. You can't make a mistake, and you always have to put the state first. Slobodan Milosevic can make a deal with The Hague tribunal, he can agree on a time sentence in Russia, serve it, condemn Serbia, and then we all suffer, and he can meet with his family and live with them. You can see it doesn't work. You can see he's collecting two days of strength to defend himself, he's seriously sick. Now you're the only one who can punish him further because you couldn't beat him at the time. You beat him in 2000, that's enough for you. May anyone who deals with politics be enough to defeat his political rival, because then he will earn when he loses, to be an honorable man. I heard you threw it to me. I don't know what murder it's about. I don't know who killed who. I told you I had a drink to the loss the Democratic Party had when the president was killed, but you didn't have a drink to the SRS, which you took to The Hague, to the SPS, which you drove the president to The Hague. I put that in the same plane. You lost your president, we lost our president, except we didn't kill yours, and you drove ours to The Hague. The prosecution was written by the Democratic Party and never forget that. Even our colleagues, who were then MPs, your MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The loss is the same. Nor can we be sure to claim that Vojislav Seselj will return, and as his persecution in The Hague began, there is less hope that he will ever return to Serbia, nor will you ever see his president again. There's only one difference, for every act of his president, we're proud. Are you proud of everything yours did, I don't know?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12757	Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Milorad Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12758	The Honored Presidency, the Honorable President, the honourable MPs, the resolution, which today is at an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is called the resolution on allowing Slobodan Milosevic's defence in The Hague, by suspending his family's persecution. It was signed by 104 MPs, nearly half of the members and MPs of this parliament, almost half of Serbia's electoral body, and certainly that the will of Serbian citizens, when it comes to the topic, far exceeds the electoral will behind these MPs. Since there are various mystifications surrounding this resolution, that she is this or that, in public speaking of her as some bogeyman, I will be free to read two parts of this resolution. So: "Consuming that the purpose of the Milosevic family's persecution is political nature and that it is seen, above all, in the need of members of the ruling nomenclature, that in this way – psychological pressure on Slobodan Milosevic, who is distracting him in preparing for the Hague procedure, by preventing him from meeting with his wife and son, which is also an additional violation of his basic human rights – help Karli del Ponte in her efforts to condemn the entire Serbian people through his trial for crimes that he did not commit. "These stories about how it's individual guilt, so it can't be anything but collective guilt, which is trying to push itself. It cannot be the individual guilt of one's genocide, which is being pushed through various verdicts, minor verdicts, small verdicts, and is being prosecuted to bring the action under the Anglo-Saxon rules tomorrow to the verdict of Slobodan Milosevic. Do not be fooled by anyone, not by the citizens of Serbia, nor by MPs whose hatred has clouded their senses, that they think that this act can be treated as an individual responsibility. Therefore, this resolution stresses that no one should be above the law and that the position in society avoids justifiable judicial persecution, but that at the same time no one should be the victim of judicial and other persecution because of his own social position, nor because of the fact that his family member is a political opponent of the government. That is, therefore, the essence of this resolution. This resolution has no purpose whatsoever to specifically and directly order any authority or individual, court, prosecutor, anything that would violate the principle of the division of power or independence and autonomy of the judiciary, but should now prevent a breach of the legality of the work and politicisation of the court, a violation of its autonomy, which unfortunately takes place today in front of our eyes. So it's about preventing discrimination based on family belongings and thus the most serious violation of human and civil rights guaranteed by and Article 13. The Constitution of Serbia. Therefore, it is about strengthening the full legality of work, preventing discrimination and respect for a number of international conventions and civilised and European values. It is necessary for the lagging cases of the previous regime of pure violence, under the legal cover, to be translated finally and irrevocably into the sphere of rule of law and to enter the rule of law instead of the most difficult, right to defend this violence. This resolution protects no one and separates anyone from the judicial and legal proceedings and incriminations, nor those who should be held accountable for the illegal, unconstitutional and illegal kidnapping and arrest of President Slobodan Milosevic, which directly opposes Article 47. Serbia's constitution, which says a citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, persecuted, exiled or extradited. That's what the ruling constitution says. Therefore, those responsible for his violation will have to answer. So today in this National Assembly we are talking about human rights, today we are talking about the right of a man to be a member of a family of opposers of power, today we are talking about the right of a man to disagree, to fight, to fight, and because of his beliefs, his family, not to be punished, not to be persecuted, not to be persecuted, not to be offended, not to be offended. Today we are talking about the right of a human being to stand by that is neither foreign government nor the side of some of the world's far-reaching powers, whose speakers here today act as Milosevic's enemies, and they are nothing but servants of its vast and powerful enemies, and that no one can be punished for it. Today we are talking about the right, which we recognize to every member of our families, the right to love us and to defend us, and that is why they are not on arrest warrants and courts. Today we are talking about the right of the Slobodan Milosevic family to fear for their safety or honor because the president is Milosevic's father, husband or grandfather. Today we're talking about ending persecution and chicane. Today we are talking about the suspension of the courts, the crisis headquarters, the influence of criminals on courts, today we are talking about the end of fear and the establishment of European values. That's what you gentlemen are talking about. Today, we are talking about Serbia's need to be defended and defended, not only from The Hague, but from all those who think that any opponent of the false tribunal must not only condemn himself, but suppress forever, destroy and destroy. Today, gentlemen, we decide whether we will fulfill the important and magnificent provision of every constitution that frees every human being from fear. That's right, free from fear. How else do we describe the time that, hopefully, forever after us, but by fear, when the president of this country was repeatedly chosen by the free will of citizens, arrested or more accurately kidnapped, as the last criminal in some medieval drama, by people with a sock on their heads, kidnapped and taken for some fabricated construction offense, and taken and sold to another country, in front of others, but also made-up accusations. As otherwise, rather than fear, to describe the time I hope is forever behind us, the time in which President Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped, handed over and sold, although according to the documents of our country and our judiciary he still spends time in the Central Prison in Belgrade, because no judge has signed a warrant for his extradition. Fearful and nothing else. The one they handed down with the simple conclusion of the government, and today, on behalf of the rule of law and in principle, they disputed the right of the Assembly to adopt this resolution, so those who extradited someone, and the president of the state, handed it over to the prime minister, as if the government was above the law, above the Constitution, above the Assembly, the court, and the prosecution, did not stop hurting him, and they did little to have the first legitimately elected president on the planet of the country handed down to a foreign court and imprisoned for other people's sins, but had to be cowardly criminalised and humiliated by his family. Scared and defeated by his brave and brilliant defense, they had to make it difficult for him once more, they had to show him that every resistance had been broken and punished, that every thought of freedom had to be banned and humiliated. It was not enough for them to hand over the former president of Serbia to Vidovdan, but also to try to destroy and destroy his family. If they could have destroyed and destroyed every memory and every memory, they could have destroyed and destroyed the Dayton Agreement, and the Republic of Serbia and Serbia. They couldn't do that, but, besides all the Hague shackles and noises, they added another, perhaps the worst and most terrible shackles and burdens, the fear that his family would be scattered around the world, destroyed and insulted, humiliated and harassed, persecuted and falsely accused. All burdens, other burdens, Slobodan Milosevic carried and carried bravely and through every hope successfully. That's why some in this country decided to add this to him. It was little to accuse the Milosevic family of all the evils of this world. There was little use of every media page, every page of the newspaper, every second of the TV program to let unheard lies about murders and assassinations play out and repeat like a lynch, with no court and no conviction. There was little to blacken man and family for every evil and every misfortune, but after weak, sad and unsuspecting, benign indictments, they had to be called arrest warrants, as if they were truly wanted by murderers and criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12759	Mr. Wolfellic, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12760	Yeah. I remind you, and the comparisons for the sake of being stopped at the Budapest airport by the arrest of Hashim Thaci and his terrorist associates, then the government, the same government that cried so zealously that all members of the Milosevic family had to be arrested, said those warrants were not valid because they were issued by the judiciary at the time of the rule of law by Slobodan Milosevic. Hashim Thaci doesn't deserve an APB, they say. Separatists, terrorists and proven bloodsuckers of this country and this people don't deserve an APB, but the warrant deserves the Slobodan Milosevic family, on the charge that they were inciting incentivists to assign 40 squares of living space to someone. Hashim Thaci is not an opponent, Hashim Thaci is not the enemy of this country and its people and no one is bothered by the illegal withdrawal of the warrant, he is not the enemy, but Mirjana Markovic is. Hashim Thaci is not the murderer and executioner of this country and its people, the warrant is not valid, but Marko Milosevic, but the daughter-in-law of President Milosevic is. I know, many of you, in the face of your conscience, have asked - well, no more "Sablje", no more the minister who has gone from a shameful 16,000 votes to a non-refundable one, the same minister who asked for the death penalty to be imposed, in 15 days to kill all possible opponents politically, shoot and liquidate, of course, it is Vladan Batic, and then to abolish the death penalty again. It's the same man who's sticking his nose back to the scene of the crime, the same man appears in Pogorevec now as a representative of the damaged and thus continues to politicise the court, continues the principles – the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. So he goes back to the crime scene and commits to doing what he did under the law of legal supervision now works under the law of someone else's supervision again, recommending himself to someone of course in the world, and again, that politicization doesn't bother anyone in public. This kind of politicisation doesn't bother anyone, nobody looks back at her, holds press conferences, goes back to the pogroms, does all kinds of other things, and there's just one process going on in front of us, how the executioners turn into victims, and how the worst criminals and offenders turn into some sort of god's righteous. They raise their heads and stab the knife into things that, by the way, made a bloody bench of it themselves. So that's the power that, without lawyers and defence, has arrested 12,000 people; so why, he says -- that there is no more, simply, members of the Slobodan Milosevic family do not come to Serbia and that these lawsuits and warrants are then resolved. He says -- why don't they surrender and plead, why don't they just spend a few weeks or months in prison, with the same prosecutors and judges who put out the warrants, that same as Slobodan Milosevic or Vojislav Seselj, go to The Hague and prove it, or General Lazarevic, there is the right place, their innocence. So why don't they just spend a few weeks or months in some kind of prison and then move on. I know, many of you ask such questions, not thinking that if we don't end today's shameful series of accusations and revenge for our political opponents, the same fate can come to them, and the same question can be asked to them, and to their families. How many of you, the messengers of the people, their wife, their son, would tell their daughter-in-law to go to prison for a few weeks or months, and then we shall see what happens. How many of you, the Messengers of the people, would say, go before the court, perhaps there is justice after all. How many, gentlemen, would send your family to a court that liberates Flyor Brovin and 2,000 Albanian terrorists, and arrests 12,000 of its citizens without charges and rights to defence. And as we know, nothing has changed in that judiciary yet, at least human beings. It is every man's right to remove and resist violence and lawlessness. If the state and those who represent it clearly use violence, intimidation and hatred instead of laws, and procedures, and justice, then it is the basic human right not only to remove itself, but also to oppose such a state and those who represent it. By voting today for this resolution, you, MPs, will make it clear that times of hatred, violence and persecution will never return and that justice and justice will be, as they should be, the highest human value. No last name in Serbia is better, no worse than any other family, no family can be punished and rewarded just because one's family, no thought, no politics, no belief will be punished just because it's a thought, a policy or a belief that differs from the ruling one. Also, this is an opportunity when we can finally establish a discontinuity with fear, with senseless violence of the Sabre, with crisis headquarters, with hatred. We should do everything in our power to make sure that Serbia never forgets any man who fought for it and that he will not let any tears fall simply because one's father, one's husband, one's father-in-law is a fighter for freedom, equality and dignity of his people. So if we are worthy of one of our traditions, which says that those who were before us knew that family and honor were not touched, that those who bear our last name were not struck, even when we were hitting each other. Those who were before us knew that there was no greater glory and greater heroism than when the family of those who were in trouble, especially those who were in trouble because of their cheeks, because of honor, because of this country, because of freedom, that his family was not touched. If we are worthy of this tradition and these customs, then we should once and for all ban the persecution of the Milosevic family and all those families who, not without pride, fight for what they believe. Gentlemen and citizens of Serbia, we must say today, hate and injustice are rising. Today, the constitution rises with violence. From the word "constitution" came the word "constitution." That is why this constitutional resolution is founded and serves its affirmation, affirmation of the rule of law, justice, elementary humanism and morality. Let us do Serbia a favor, and a constitution, and respect for the legality, and the highest principles, and adopt this resolution, regardless of the various political beliefs we have. It's about greater and more serious values that exceed every party and human division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12761	I thank Mr. Vukelic. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives report to the floor? There is a word from MP Dusan Petrovic, head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club -- Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12762	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two political Serbs, and that is not the fact we faced today, not yesterday. It is, unfortunately, the fact that our nation has been following since we started in our modern history to make a modern state. Today's time has its own expression of the two Serbs. The draft act we are discussing today is a fight between representatives of a Serbia for the favor and support of people who share their values. Simply put, the representatives of the two political parties here today prove who prefers Slobodan Milosevic, who cares more about his family, who is more concerned about preserving the value that is based on their policy. The Democratic Party is a representative of values that form the basis of the life of philosophy and the conviction of another Serbia. The question arises whether you should take part in the debate, which is related, brotherly or whatever, political formations, today here, proving who is more faithful, who is better and who is more attractive in the political struggle for Serbia, as they want. You should! It's supposed to prove that it's not possible to be in between. It is not possible to be between the two political Serbs. It's necessary to have value definitions. One policy led Serbia for ten years and led by that policy, and such a Serbia was Slobodan Milosevic. It was from 1990 to 2000. In those ten years, Serbia, the Serbian people, suffered the greatest national losses. The state suffered the greatest possible damage from the year 1804 to the day of today. Serbs lost the state they made after the First World War, a country where they had resolved their national issue. They lost her because she was run by a bad policy, they lost her because she was driven by a tragic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12763	Mr. Petrovic, try to get back to the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12764	Mr. Angelkovic, I can't get into whether you understand or don't understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12765	Mr. Petrovic, it's not yours to judge whether I understand or not. Yours is to respect the Rules of Procedure. I warn you to respect the Rules of Procedure and stick to the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12766	You're free to take my word from me. I'll respect that, of course. The circumstances, which the President of the Assembly has given you the opportunity to lead this session, allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12767	As you know, I'm so tolerated that even when you're talking nonsense, I'll listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12768	Mr. Angelkovic, it's a matter of your intelligence. I can't do that. It can be for some institutions, and it can also be for observers. Several hundred thousand Serbs remain in Croatia, 650,000 Serbs have lost their homes in Croatia, 200,000 Serbs have been displaced from Kosovo and Metohija today. These are the consequences of Slobodan Milosevic's policy. The country's economy has been ruined in those ten years. When Slobodan Milosevic finished his era, the average profit of Serbian citizens was 25 euros. The country had no electricity for two months during the winter between 2000 and 2001. There was no penicillin in this country. In this country, schools have not been created for ten years, no roads have been patched up for seven or eight years. It is the result of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic. And this is the result of a policy government based on values today defended by the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. But there are worse things than material poverty. A large number of our countrymen were in an accident. Of course, those who lost their estates and their homes suffered a great accident, and the greatest misfortune of those families who lost their members because a large number of people were killed. A large number of people were killed by a crime. These ten years led to the death of 7,800 people in Srebrenica in three days. The policy has led to graves in Serbia from which no victims have been identified today. These are the consequences of the policy led by Slobodan Milosevic. The effect of this policy is also the Dayton Agreement. The result of this policy is that the Dayton Agreement established the law of the international community, the United Nations, to establish a judicial institution that will investigate the crimes that have taken place over the past ten years. The result of this policy is that the United Nations Security Council has formed a court in The Hague, where Slobodan Milosevic is today. Slobodan Milosevic gave Serbia's consent to the establishment of an International Court that determines and investigates war crimes. Today, Slobodan Milosevic is in that court. What matters is what kind of land we will live in and what kind of land our children will live in. Will we in a short time, or will it take a long time, to correct all the evil consequences that the policy, led by Slobodan Milosevic, has brought to Serbia? The removal of these consequences will mean that Serbia is beginning to live as a normal country, that Serbia is also starting to live the way the Greeks, the Portuguese, as the Spanish and the Dutch live, the whole normal world. It's a fight that's being fought today in Serbia. Today, Serbian lawmakers, led by Slobodan Milosevic and the life Serbia had while Milosevic was in power, propose this resolution and prove to Serbia who is the better advocate of the policy. It will judge those who think they lived well in the 1990s and that such a life should return. The Democratic Party is for normal Serbia, for Serbia in which life will not differ from life in normal European countries. The opportunity for Serbia and for our children to live like that, the Democratic Party with its political allies has managed to hijack history since 2000. I don't know who's proud of who, I'm proud of Zoran Djindjic and the Democratic Party is proud of Zoran Djindjic. The Democratic Party is proud that it has proved that Serbia can be a normal country, because we have proven that we are capable of living as the whole normal world and because we have shown that European Serbia is the majority of Serbia. That'll show the next election one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12769	Hate, of course, is allowed to every individual, but this is a parliament and I ask that hatred be left in that part of Serbia that hates, and here to discuss resolutions and consequences for hate, taking steps against other members. Toma Nikolic has a word, as an authorised representative, who answered as he spoke Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12770	I do not argue with you that you have a good opinion of Zoran Djindjic. I dispute your right to have a good opinion of the society in which Zoran Djindjic was in. Zoran Djindjic hung out with mobsters. I want my grandson and, God, more of my grandchildren to live not in two Serbias, which you are talking about, but living in one Serbia. One is Serbia, no two Serbias. That's what two Serbians did. But when there are no arguments, you have turned to a political story. We did not meet here to politically judge Slobodan Milosevic or defend him. We met here to determine if someone was after his family because he was a Free Milosevic? By listening to your speech, I can see that you were ready to haunt his neighbors. Your speech is so scarred. It is such a difficult speech that you praised the strains of how Milosevic changed the plagues. Where did you get such a hard speech even the idea of talking about how you fixed the roads when Milosevic left? Yeah, he was fixing the plague roads. There are those who were then your leaders, who move into new houses and new apartments, bought with money acquired during the time of Chume's road repairs. So I'm asking you not to twist the thesis, so we don't turn the subject around. I am not a representative of the promoter who is asking to examine whether Milosevic was doing well or not, because it cannot be the basis. The purpose of the resolution is that Milosevic cannot be the basis for the persecution of his family, how can you not understand that? Should someone come after other people's families? You've seen Cedomir Jovanovic, he brought his wife to a press conference to strengthen the threats he was threatened with. I see he's got security. Do you remember one day during the security of Vojislav Seselj you took away your personal weapons? Everyone had a gun with a license and didn't leave it in the car. Last night, Cedomir Jovanovic said -- other people used those guns. He says his guilt calmly in front of the cameras, he knows he's got nothing on him, he's protected by whoever's funding him. Vojislav Seselj was taken by night by the armed forces, his entire escort and security, and then you took away his armored car in which he was driving. Was that an invitation to the lynch? Yes, it is. What are you boasting about - the state of emergency, 12,000 arrested, 40 of which are climate-y and loose accusations. What else are you boasting about - by having here the rightful judgments against the world's mightiers? First you let them come to the country as they please, and then you abolished their judgments. What else can we boast about? Let's not start that topic, I'm just asking you -- can anyone's child be harassed for being his father Dusan Petrovic or Tomislav Nikolic? Does anyone in Serbia have the right to harass those children? What's his sin? Did he smuggle tobacco? Where's your criminal record? You've been in power for three years. Now you've been in another form for over a year in power. Was it time you chased those criminals? How can you drive them when it's a spider web that many of you have gotten involved in. There's no way out of that network. I don't think I'm responding at all to the attacks you're sending to the Serbian Radical Party. I don't care about your attitude. You've got bigger problems. You missed your chance. You could have killed us when you introduced a state of emergency; you didn't -- now you're politically gone. You're the same ones who introduced the state of emergency. You're all here, you're all called the Democratic Party, you're all yellow, you're just in some factions. I don't care if I get arrested by one faction or another. I want to appeal to those who are now in power not to do this to you, not to us either. I'm making a promise from this pay phone, since this year when we take over, we're not going to harass anyone on that basis, but that's why, criminals in prison. Don't spontaneously insinuate, you and your representatives, the time we're in coalition with the DSS, the hour with the SPS, let it go. There's no shame in being in any coalition anymore. If you suffer from the Ugljanin, Kasa and Chanka in your coalitions, what more shame is there for the coalition? Unfortunately, our coalition with the SPS broke in preparation for the 2000 elections. Unfortunately. There's a witness here. It wasn't our fault. If it hadn't cracked, Serbia wouldn't have looked as bad today as it looks, because you cut Serbia into a recovery phase. You brought her back to the bottom to prove she can be deeper than Milosevic. Now I heard for the first time that Slobodan Milosevic was the factor that decided whether the Security Council would form a court in The Hague or not. If he's made up his mind, then on his soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12771	Anita Beretic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, in order to avoid misunderstanding, Article 89 writes very precisely the draft act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of proposing acts, which gets the word when requested, does not refer to it as a restriction on the duration of the speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12772	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You blatantly violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure under which you were obliged to give me the word of the Rules of Procedure when I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12773	It says very precisely that the motion officer, whenever he asks, gets the first word. The proposer of the act is here, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12774	I'm advertising an injury to members of 100th and 99th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe that all three articles of the 100th are injured, and I believe that in front of the contents of these members, there is one perfidious intention to send here, in the absence of a real audience, a political message that we have heard from the RTS journal for 10 years, which we have listened to while we have watched and read all those families that have lost their loved ones, due to the content of patriotic news from the RTS journals of those years. It's the only intention. That's why I believe the President of the Assembly has violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, putting this item on the agenda at all. At the same time, the 3rd Article of the 99th position was seriously injured by the chairman. Item 3 of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure say - during the speech of the MPs and other participants in the search, the delay of speakers is not allowed in any other way, as is any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. Too soon, Mr. Chairman, you fully enjoyed this performance today, unfortunately, although you returned quickly at a time when your political option was intense, very successful and very drastically working to prevent freedom of speech. I ask that this breach of the Rules of Procedure be declared by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12775	Take it easy, Mr. Petrovic, we'll do everything nice, nice, we just have to respect the Rules of Procedure. You know how, the Rules of Procedure is a miracle. If we don't respect him, we'll do anarchy here. I don't think there's any need for such emotional speeches here, as we heard earlier, because Article 99 of Section 2 says very precisely - no one can interrupt the speaker, exactly, nor warn him, except for the President of the Assembly, in the case of the intended Rules of Procedure. Since Mr Petrovic did not adhere to the agenda, it is my duty to warn him to return to the resolution, not to the 10 years of the SPS and SRS authorities, not all 10, of course, because we had the 2000 elections on this. Therefore, that was the assessment, and now the resolution is on the agenda, so I ask all MPs to adhere to the Rules of Procedure and the agenda points. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Vucelic first applied, and then the National MP Dusan Petrovic signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't think this would be used as a cheap political tribune, as we heard Mr. Petrovic's reaction to Mr. Nikolic and mine. I wouldn't really think of these stereotypes to look back on, but to erode, which have served for years, completely empty, without any cover, without any truth, and only with one intention, to provide an alibi and cover those who have destroyed Yugoslavia and who have bombed us, who have been assistants and employers of change to Serbia, and that's the only true thing that's been said to take from history. True, the government kidnapped Serbia from history, kidnapped it from its honorable past, and threw it as a mere servant, and as a regular lilysahan, it placed it under the slippers of foreign rulers, sometimes sultans. But here, what's important, first, is the lie that the Dayton Agreement established the Hague tribunal. It was founded in 1992 and is being talked about in 1995, about co-operation in investigating crime, and there is absolutely no mention of the recognition of the UN tribunal, about extradition, because there is a constitution that prohibits extradition. But there's something more important. That's the split of Serbia into two Serbias. You see, George Bush, I know and I'll give you a few examples, but I know that the greatest impression on you is that George Bush, your boss, after winning the election, which was sharp, fierce and tight, he said -- there are no two Americans, there's no division on Republican and democratic America, we're the United States, and we're working towards our views, we're interested in the same thing. I'll tell an anecdote. When our ambassador was teaching credentials after the war to Charles de Gaulle, he told him - I know that France is divided into two Frances, the Petenovska and the Resistance; sir, your Excellency and President, on behalf of this France, I am giving France, which is France's Resistance, I am giving them credentials. De Gaulle replied - Mr. Ambassador, there is only one France, and that is this France that I represent today, there are no two Frances. I don't want to mention examples of neither Spain nor examples of others. Otherwise, this is about an uncircumcised old thesis, which came from talks with Matjevic on two logics, two Serbias, and it's startling that someone is using some old, truly pseudo-Hungarian stereotypes, to further produce Serbia. There is therefore Serbia, which has not been kidnapped from history, which is Serbia to which it is to its own interest, which recognises itself historically, and has those, perhaps, Serbia that is below each level of such consideration and which is served by lunches. But this resolution today shows itself, in light of this discussion, even more necessary. It is clear that this consciousness has created exactly this kind of pogrom of the Milosevic family and it is clear that this pogrom stands in respect of the tradition of "Sablje", and the greatest abuses in the history of this people and in the history of the civilized world. They're proud of the most flagrant violation of human rights and what another family means to them in that crowd.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12777	I have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure reported. First MP Dusan Petrovic, then MP Aleksandar Vukic. Please don't make that kind of comparison with what's the biggest nonsense, what's the slightest nonsense, just let's just focus on what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12778	Mr. President, I deeply respect every SRS voter and every SPS voter, and I have fought and I will fight against the SRS policy and the SPS-led policy, because it brings damage to Serbia's national interests and citizens of Serbia. If this resolution had a serious content, of course I would talk about it. Neither did the promoter intend to do anything by means of this resolution, nor did he intend to, I'm convinced, that this is a serious legal matter, otherwise it would not stand here to be imposed, the Assembly orders the competent state authorities to do so. To whom - the independent prosecutor's office, the police? How can he order someone else's congregation? The assembly, by law and by the Constitution, is independent. The assembly can replace the government, the Assembly can build a survey board. The assembly cannot adopt this resolution. This is legally impossible and because of this, regardless of the vulgarities that are being heard here from the promoter, it's completely meaningless and it can't be the subject of this debate. No, the promoter wants to kidnap part of the SPS electoral body. That's the motive that the promoter brought in, but I don't know why it came to the agenda, so someone might think that this is really about deep emotions or concerns. No, it's about voters and the resistance the Socialists are now providing to keep their electoral body. This is the theme of today’s congregation and today’s session. There's no mystery. It's more trivial than it looks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12779	You will receive a replica of the mention of the SRS, as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Once again, I ask everyone, what's the theme of this session, it's written in summary. The session is called according to the Rules of Procedure, and everything that the Rules of Procedure do not regulate is allowed, even messages to the electoral body. So it's not something we need to argue about. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12780	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this kind of hysteria that we had the chance not only to hear, but also to see at one point, as some leaned forward, I was afraid that the fifth order of the assembly would come. But I'm not surprised at anything. The only thing that amazes me is the fact that some here about their diary, the diary they're talking about, left behind by tens of thousands of dead, are talking about the HTV diary. That's how I understood it. I guess you weren't thinking of anyone else. Or maybe you forgot to talk about such journals. They speak here, with hysterical hatred, of how Serbs killed and committed crimes. I didn't hear you say so many thousands of Serbs were killed in the Serbian province, so many thousands of Serbs in Sarajevo. I didn't hear you mention Kraljevica, Bratunac, Kupres, Clay, Court of Units, Kostanica, any place. The only place you've heard of on the globe is Srebrenica. Now, I'm sick of your journals and all of Serbia is sick of your journals and your lies. Not in two Serbias, but the whole of Serbia is enough to listen to a war criminal hiding behind each corner. We've had enough of the big news in our diary to say, "Who's some guy? ". We want to see who destroyed the Republika Srpska Krajina, who robbed Serbia, where that thief Bozidar Djelic, who said that the biggest robbery was Serbia when someone puts budget money in the Commercial Bank, any commercial bank, and he chose to put money there, the whole budget, because they are known to have 0.3%. He put the whole budget in. How many dozen million euros did he take on that? How much money did you take in every place? We want to talk about who was destroying both the Serbian Krajina and the Republika Srpska, who was destroying Serbia, and we want to see who was robbing, and not like that, you filed criminal charges against people for sharing bonuses with workers, and you took five and ten million each, did what you wanted. You brought into Serbia Cumet, Kolesar and everyone else. You're the one who turned the thief into the ultimate principle of political action. You're gonna tell someone something here. There are no two Serbias, there is one Serbia, because there is no Serbia that wants to support thieves. There's no one who wants criminals. It's not Europe, it's nothing. It's true, things are trivial, let's strip them. You've got those who won't run away from you so jagged, so inspired, when you start threatening, as you've threatened since October 5, 2000. (President: Time. Many of us had to defend our families in different ways. We never complained, we never complained, we defended them. Maybe it'll come back to you. Maybe you'll come into some position to try it again. We'll never do that to you. That's what we're different about. But if you try that again in any way, you know we're not going to get out of this country, we're not going anywhere. We've got one country, we've got our families, and, be sure, we'll know how to defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12781	Rules of Procedure? Here you are, MP Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12782	Mr. President, I didn't speak in the Rules of Procedure last time. I had a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12783	I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic, I got a notice from the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12784	If Mr. Vucic was speaking according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12785	Let me get this straight. When I came after my break, I found here that Dusan Petrovic had answered, according to the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr. Vukic reported to the Rules of Procedure, first I gave you my word, otherwise I would have to go to him first. Then he gave up the Rules of Procedure and answered the line. I give you my word now, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12786	I had a replica for Mr. Nikolic, but it doesn't matter now, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12788	I didn't threaten anyone. It's completely on the other side of your mind and thinking that the opposition might threaten someone. How can an opposition party threaten someone? We are the opposition in this House. You threatened, Mr. Wolfie, you waved your finger here in my direction, but I don't have any problem with that. Mr. Proposer is vulgar again, they can't see it, but he swears, points to the middle finger and thus contributes to the seriousness of this debate that he himself has initiated. If you had listened carefully, Mr. Vukic, you would have heard that with great importance, I looked back on the sacrifices that Serbs had in the ten years of Milosevic's rule. You can hear it or you can't hear it. On the other hand, I don't mind that you don't care who killed 7,800 people in Srebrenica, that you think it doesn't matter who committed this crime. I think it is important that it is invaluable for the health of our public life, that it is important for the country our children live in to determine who ordered and who executed the pogroms that are on the agenda. Patriotism is to insist on it, because it is impossible to live well in a society that has not broken down with crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12789	The promoter always has an advantage. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12790	I know this story, I don't know if Serbia knows it, but the official Serbia, and also the one who claims to be off the record, has the president of the state in his hands, the army and almost all the generals in his hands, getting orders from the West to turn the story around. Some board presidents here in the Assembly know that. Serbia, an official who co-operates with Europe at all costs, is being rebuked not to do enough in Serbia's condemnation of crimes, rebuke that there are no TV shows or bad comments against Milosevic, that his reputation in Serbia does not fall. True, there they confess in the resolution that it is a guilty and poorly-run court case in The Hague, but also people who are in Serbia in power or in their own hands with media, who do not potentiate the crimes of the Serb people in these wars, and that is the story. Who's the one who's crazy not to condemn the crimes in Srebrenica? Did Milosevic do it? Did Serbia commit this crime? Is Milosevic under trial that he ordered anything there, that he commanded? There is now data that even Karadzic was against doing anything there, and some Milosevic, who could not accept it at all. What does Serbia have to do with any crime that was committed in Srebrenica? I don't want to feel that sin. What do we need that for on the diary? This isn't a Srebrenica court. We've condemned, here are the representatives of the SRS who went to the memorial when they erected the monument to these victims. Our MPs from Republika Srpska went to that memorial. That's the attitude to it. We don't even mention crimes committed against Serbs, we don't mention these either. Let all this be investigated, let everyone be punished for who committed the crime. I'm interested in another matter today, that suffering under your authority. Why don't you come out here and tell me what a media hall you've led to the fact that the girl, the daughter of a vice president of the government from a period before you, experience that in the school yard children cut her hair, on the day you took power, that ten years before biology says so, she gets her first cycle. These are the consequences of your actions. You know who this is, she's already a big girl. For that one child is enough to condemn you for everything you've done. Did you watch the footage of Dragoljub Milanovic being beaten? It's a revolution. From the O.R., it's a little small. Shame on you, you son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12791	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you of speaking to the MPs. This is the first warning. The first replica, Mr. Vukic; the second replica, Mr. Petrovic; the third, Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to know what this was about and that the citizens of Serbia would know, and when Mr Nikolic spoke of a girl whose hair was cut, when he talked about beating up, a lynched link experienced by Dragoljub Milanovic, and that no one was chasing those bandits who beat him in the middle of the street, never, one of the MPs threw "a little", the Democratic Party MP. Are you eager for blood? Are you thirsty? God's human rights fighters. Are you going to kill us? Is that what you want, since you've had a bit of lynching? Is that what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12793	Mr. Wolfie, who are you replicating?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12794	I'm replicating Dusan Petrovic, who went out to get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12795	Replicate it, do not convince what happened during the presentation of the previous speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12796	You didn't do this before when it had nothing to do with what was happening in the Serbian Parliament. You're a little tired of lynching, more like it. Don't bring in other people, don't throw other people's children in an accident with your dirty politics. Come on, you do it. Come on, do it, here, I'm standing here, do it, gather around, so try it, let's see you. The mice gathered together, and they would lynch, and the mice gathered together, and they would beat the people, and they would go on doing so. Well, you'll never be able to go on with it again. Serbia needs peace, Serbia needs normal people, people who will condemn those who would try to lynch you. We will condemn anyone who dares to try to touch you, to try to cut your daughters' hair. I have a son and a daughter, and I will never let them touch them. I don't know how some people got over it, and I don't know how they survived. I warn you that this resolution today aims never to happen again in Serbia. Don't do that again. If you're so brave, let's do something ourselves. Do not bring Serbia into conflict, because it is not necessary for Serbia. Serbia wants to be both a normal and a moral country, a country that neither Chume nor Kolesar rule, nor all those who managed this Serbia during the previous period, and will not be managed by those who would beat up political opponents. We want children and grandchildren not to be guilty in Serbia, not to arrest the daughter-in-law of Slobodan Milosevic because he needs to testify in some procedure... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... So she didn't show up for the first time, so you're arresting her. It must never happen again in Serbia. (President: Time, thank you. ) E, Mr Markovic, the time of normal Serbia is just coming and you will soon see for yourself, and thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12797	Thank you. Here you go, Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12798	To be honest, I don't know what to do with Mr. Wolfie, so he's pissed off like this. He was scared of you. Of course, we didn't threaten anyone, nor do I intend to, Mr. Vukic here, with a very clear movement of the body, threatening you with a finger, so you look at me, Mr. Wolfich, with that I have no problem, and when you were in power, I wasn't cutting you down for nothing, neither you nor this socialist. What I was saying to Mr. Nikolic about Srebrenica, I was saying because Mr. Vukic said he was sick of Srebrenica. Of course, it's sick of Srebrenica, because it's necessary to determine who's personally responsible for this crime. He is not a people, nor can he be a people responsible. Therefore, it must be established in the procedure of who ordered the crime and who did it. It's a matter of Serbia's national health, a matter of the health of our public life. It's a matter of catharsis, Mr. Nikolic, which you spoke of inconclusively here when you had the opening statement. Serbia needs catharsis, and we need to face everything that is important in our history. You can see how short a memory is. Do Serbia remembers thousands of boys and girls wearing resistance T-shirts that were bloodbathed all over Belgrade and all over Serbia? They were bloodstained, and they were involved and radicals, socialists, police. Now, my Mr. Vukic, then you do not advocate that these children are not beaten up by police and paid criminals, who were hired by the Slobodan Milosevic regime. Now, Mr. Vukic swears to us that he's a midwife and he cares about being protected by anyone who deals with politics. You were a minister, Mr. Wolf, informing. You didn't move your finger when Serbia's youth was beaten. It's enough to show your morality and your honesty. So you're telling the truth, and it's very important for today's debate and for a clear view of the Serbian Radical Party's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12799	The People's Messenger Milorad Vucelic has the word. You know the order, the reported replica before four speakers. Be kind, to be correct, it's waiting for a replica. So, I agree, this is kind of correctness. Clearly, the proposing representative has the right to receive a word as soon as he reports. She went in the other direction of the debate. Mr. Vukelic answered immediately. Be kind, so we don't lose a single debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12800	I'd have a second basis to answer, but I was first forgotten. I'm gonna take a little longer. So, first of all, I really need to say that it's not good to develop historical debates on this subject of abuse of the Slobodan Milosevic family, and it would be good, out of pitetism and respect for that sacrifice that his family suffers, and he hates to defend himself, to avoid the various wrong propaganda and historical reminiscation of the type of crime committed, etc. Speaking of which, I have to answer. First, we can't have any catharsis, no remorse, no truth. What's said about Srebrenica, it's just fiction. Anyone who follows closely what's going on in this literature, reports from Republika Srpska, reports from the Dutch government, reports from our documentation centres here, one, the other, third, know that this is about one mere propaganda. Besides, when you trust all Americans, then why don't you trust Bugais, who told Belgrade in the middle of an interview that it was a few hundred exhumations in Srebrenica and questioned the number that was said there. Furthermore, what does this have to do with Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic and Serbia's politics? Fourth, who represented the war policy when Serbia officially sought peace; then when Slobodan Milosevic and Serbia sought peace, then your heroes were the ones you are calling to The Hague today, including Biljana Plasic. That's when you encouraged the war. That's when your leaders went and asked for the war to continue and the regime to collapse, the traitor regime of Slobodan Milosevic. You know that, you know that I know, you know that we know and you're doing it again and you're abusing it. What an understanding of the law, in the name of which Serbia. Linc is small, I heard it loudly, I know who said it and not once, it's a little lynch, it's a bit of a beating Dragan Milanovic. It's your understanding of justice and justice. And of course this resolution is necessary, and you should have the DSS, you should G17 and others vote for it, because you show, demonstrate your understanding of justice. You want that bloody round to continue. You don't want it to end. You're just adding, adding blood to the blood. Lynch is your understanding of politics and rights. This resolution is even more necessary than it seemed to me at the first moment. You demonstrate and there is a bloody bench endlessly. That's got to stop. In explaining this resolution we have made it clear that the goal... (President:Time. I have two basics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12801	There are no Rules of Procedures two basics. Please continue, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12802	So, once again, I'm initiating that we can talk about everything, but then we open up a big debate about these issues that you only know the floscules about, you don't know anything individually, because you say the TV log. You see, the TV diary has been treated as a dictionary of hate and as a war colossal because it has claimed that Al-Qaeda is fighting in Bosnia and Kosovo, and that fundamentalists are fighting, and that Islamic fundamentalists and other forces are fighting. That's how it was until 9/11, 2001. After the attack on the New York Business Centre, suddenly images of mujahedin with a severed Serbian head appeared in their world press. The Mujahidin celebrate victory at Tuzla. ID cards have appeared in Afghanistan, appeared in Geneva's Al-Qaeda ambassador, Ali Izetbegovic appeared as the host of Osama bin Laden, who testified "Spiggle". All of a sudden, that thing was quiet, and all of a sudden, that hate speech, and the war-wrestle speech became a speech of truth, but then when the world and the United States hurt. While it hurt us, it was just us who talked, and you who made it a policy, etc. If it's up to you to pay your respects to the victims, I haven't noticed, every victim should pay his respects, say, to Tapi, the painter, who's the victim of Sablje. If we're talking about every victim, he's a victim, and he needs to give away his drink, pay his respects. Second of all, don't replace those mailing stories. Willie Brant never apologized to anyone. Never. He was kneeling for innocent victims. There aren't any MPs in this room who wouldn't do it and who didn't do it. He's giving his mail to the victims, and he's not apologizing. An apology doesn't mean anything. It's a fake story, it's for political purposes, and don't see yourself as the continuations of Willy Brant and his role model, because you're not. It is the giving of mail, not propaganda stories and the sharing of Serbia further, and the making of a further bloody pirate from it. So, please do not worry about our relationships because of respect for the family and the defense of Slobodan Milosevic, who is being kidnapped by the electoral body. This is a huge topic for which we are emotionally bound and which we would politically abuse, and I believe I am also convinced of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12803	Here you are, the representative of the promoter Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12804	Just to remove one untruth here, or to warn those who tell the truth that it can be fought on their heads very often. You mentioned members of the Resistance. I don't know if they're here in the O.R., that they're in some parties, and if there's a party, they can deny me or they can confirm what I'm saying right now. The Serbian Radical Party has never participated in beating anyone on the street, but if there is evidence that someone was involved, Branislav Ivkovic did. The evidence was held by Cedomir Jovanovic and was being blackmailed by Branislav Ivkovic. Look at the miracles, you who shed crocodile tears over the resistance who were beaten, the first thing you did here in the Assembly was to take Branislav Ivkovic and his MP group, who participated in the beating of the Resistance. Is there an end to hypocrisy? It's got to stop once. You mentioned Tapie here. The next day after his death, I said that an old declaration from postwar times had been applied - died in the presence of power. That's no longer being investigated. Who was Tapi with in the public war? Against whom did Tapi lead the fierce action to defuse his crime? Against one of your most influential members and the richest, most likely, against one Ljuba Angelkovic, who was building six-story buildings, eight-story buildings, all over Belgrade, without permission, taking care of city building land. I'm very suspicious of Tapi being detained and dying in the presence of power. I'm very suspicious, and whoever was with your leaders going into open disputes happened to him that he was no longer able to be in a dispute with anyone else. But this is not a session dedicated to the Democratic Party, to the Serbian Radical Party, or to the Socialist Party of Serbia. It's incorrect to fight for votes. We've had open conversations about this agenda point. Milosevic asked me to be a proposing representative because he knows the weight of 82 MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I told the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs -- agree, and if there is a way, let any of you be a representative of the proposings. In 20 minutes, I can say anything on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, and replicas are the basis. Now I have no more rights than I would have had if I were the sole head of the parliamentary group. We don't need any glory here. Don't let the current government think this is hard to swallow. You can stop everything. There's no independent prosecutor's office. You're wrong. But there's no independent judiciary either. Since Vladan Batic began to storm the judiciary, there has been no independent judiciary. Do you know, where he shows up as a defense attorney, he comes in with three official cars with a rotational light? The government's Batic police are now providing an escort with rotational lights. Why? Do you know how we left power? Did any of us get security, escorts, were we safe and safe? Did we need that? It's not. We didn't hang out with criminals when we were in power. We may have resented one of you, perhaps another citizen, but neither politicians nor citizens kill. They're killing criminals. No one who hangs out with them, and none of them receive a dinar, is sure they'll live. That's all I'm warning you about. You've introduced a manner of making criminals an honorary citizen. From this pay phone, Vojislav Seselj told Zoran Djindjic in the eye that he should not have given the job of paved roads to a mobster. Djindjic replicated and said – he had the most favourable offer. Then Vojislav Seselj repeated -- perhaps Al Capone would have the most favourable offer in America, but America didn't think to give him such a job. Now, that's your historic catastrophic mistake, and you've all been involved in it. Because it's impossible for me, Mr. Petrovic here, to tell me that he was chit-chatted in 1991, and that, as such a revolutionary, since 2000, he's been deciding what the government is going to do; let it go. Whoever was beaten in 1990, then, ever in any form here was in power. The one who was beaten in 1991, 1992, 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002. Do you see? Nothing's forever. Anyone who fights will live to see that whoever he beat, if he survived, and I see that some of you have figured it out, so some of you haven't survived, if he survived, he'll come to ask one day, why am I beaten? I'm just asking here why you chased the Slobodan Milosevic family and why it doesn't end this moment, so that the defense will be successful. Through this prism, I also observe Vojislav Seselj. I want to provide him with the best possible defense. Through this prism, I look at those that no one even mentions, or maybe someone mentions them, those who will one day be on the list. If someone thinks the SRS is too far-fetched, they can ask how can they weaken it again? If he wanted to weaken again, he would have to remove Tomislav Nikolic from the political scene. In what way? One of your ways. The first one is The Hague. If it doesn't work, then there's some power in which a head can be lost. Basically, there's a reason. The cause is the Milosevic family, but it is not about any independent family, it is about families in Serbia. When you agree on Family Law, when you want to apply European principles to every law, apply them to human rights. And this Hague, which will never be judgment, you know it very well: no one comes out of it uncondemned, and no one has the right to defend. And I didn't hear you ask why Vojislav Seselj was sitting in custody for two years, did the trial begin? Why don't they let him prepare his defense here and leave again? And this Hague doesn't say Milosevic is a criminal. He respects the basic principle that you don't respect here. When he's convicted, for some he'll be a criminal, for some he won't be a criminal then either. For the acts attributed to him there, there won't be a criminal for me even when he's convicted. Let me not tell you about Seselj. I don't even want to talk about it. But you're here to convict anyone before you send him. The cabinet session, which was handed over to Slobodan Milosevic, must be sanctioned. He has to. Otherwise, this can't all end. I'm not sure when 30 ministers get together, who else can lose their heads. When they get together to decide something, which they have no right to decide at all, about extradition to The Hague. If the government can hand over to The Hague, how much has she just sent to Central Prison, how much has she sent to the Fireman? How many cities have the government decided who will be arrested? That's what you owe us to say here. The revolutionary enthusiasm has passed. It's a broken Serbian economy, forever. What you're doing right now, what you're destroying the financial sector and handing it over to strangers, it's just an extra tap of slaves on the head. With that sector, you broke the morale of the Serbian people. When you came to power, 95% of Serbian citizens had confidence in the military. How many trusted when Tadic became military minister? How many were there when he stopped being a minister? He partially destroyed the army. And he's too lazy to do anything, so he didn't hold the sessions. Second, he's not even too intelligent. You know that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12805	I warn you, it's about the institution of the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12806	Then came this club friend of Mr. President, who was trained to destroy the army -- this Davinic. He finished it. What Tadic started, Davinic finished school. Don't defend Tadic. You know Djindjic has asked the farthest embassy to send him, just so he doesn't sit in Belgrade anymore and not sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12807	On the basis of Article 94(2), the President of the National Assembly shall set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out consultations Please, of course you have the right to a replica, so you'll consider it during the consultation. [[Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]] That is why consultations are being held, following the proposals, which summed up the previous discussion, it is pointless to continue the line, according to the president of the Assembly, because it is our duty to talk about what is on the agenda. But if the participants want to, they will use their right after the consultation, of course, but the request is to pause for five minutes. Thank you. [[After break – 13,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please check to see if we have a quorum to work with. I realize we have a quorum to work with and we continue the session. After the consultation, Mr. Vukic had not given up on the replica, then Mr. Petrovic had his first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice that Mr. Petrovic here talked about cutting, it's nice to brag about how big and brave he is. I never doubted that. That's what Mr. Petrovic always looked like to me, and I didn't count on it to be different. The only thing I know is that he wasn't cut out by his friend Mile Petkovic. Always, wherever he arrived, he talked about him the worst, and he didn't care much about him at their local palace meetings, where they talked about everything and everything. I don't want to talk about it, it's a relationship between Milet Petkovic and Mr Petrovic, not interested in Serbian citizens. What Serbian citizens are interested in and what is a serious accusation...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12810	Don't be afraid, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12811	So what it is is a serious accusation, it's how one of us participated in beating up members of the Resistance or agreed to it, or I don't know. As far as we're concerned, in the political sense of the Resistance, we think of everything as the worst. We don't have any good words about that movement to say. No one from the SRS has ever participated in the beating of any member of the Resistance. Here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is one of the leaders of the Resistance, and I ask him myself and ask him directly, since Mr Petrovic spoke of my role as members of the Resistance, you know about this period, whether one of the former MPs of the DS, the leader of the Resistance, was one of those people in my house at night, seeking salvation from what I don't know, whether he boasted of it and whether he was satisfied with what I had given him, and with the charm, and the beans and everything else. Whether it's true or not, Mr. Karaicic, even though I thought the worst of it is what he's doing. You go out there and tell me if I lied or not. It's about a man from the DS, and I'll never say his name because honorable people don't. Since you called it, I answer to that and if you knew I was wrong, maybe I shouldn't have done it, but I would have said it the same way, because I'm such a man. Unlike you, it could never get out of my mouth that, there was a little beating for your political inexperience. There's been a little lynching. I know you'd like it back, I know you're dreaming of coming back on October 6th and you can wake up and kill us. We spoke here to you in the Serbian Parliament, I remind you of those words... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Vojislav Seselj, he told you, take this little time while you still have and while we have 23 MPs, use and kill us, while you have opportunities and while you can do so. After that, there will be more of us than there will be of you, because the people are watching it all... (President: Time. ) As you can see, Serbian citizens have seen it all, they have seen it all, so today we are almost three times more than you in this assembly, and in the next elections or after the next elections there will be five times more of us because Serbian citizens want normal Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12812	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusan Petrovic, if I understand the application before that, a replica to Mr Nikolic's presentation, and then Mr Karaičić, a replica to Mr Vukic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12813	Mr. President, it is alarming how much Mr. Vukic does not know the legal system based on the Constitution, and since he was Minister, Mr. Toma Nikolic was Deputy Prime Minister, and then it is impossible that there is no responsibility of the highest state officials, and these two were with other members of the SRS, as many as you had 13, 14, 17 ministers, it is impossible that there is no responsibility for beatings that have been experienced by hundreds of young people who have fought for freedom. It's your fault, Mr. Wolfie, it's your fault for taking part in the government that beat people up. Do you feel guilty, and you are guilty politically, whether you feel guilty or not, it's a matter of your value system. I see you don't mind. You don't mind that, and that's proof that you would do it in the future. You would also participate in a government that would beat people up, because you don't have a sense of guilt, or have a critical distance to it all. That's your problem. It's sad how Mr. Toma Nikolic can't regret losing the presidential election here. In a very ugly way, he talks about the president of the Republic and underestimates 1,700,000 people who voted for Boris Tadic. But that speaks of Tomislav Nikolic and the politics of the SRS, and their value system as well. It is a personal matter of Tomislav Nikolic and I will not do it. There are things here that are really serious. After allowing himself to open up the question here what the late Zoran Djindjic said from this pay phone, so what Vojislav Seselj said from this pay phone, Vojislav Seselj said that in spring 2002, it would be bloody. That's what Vojislav Seselj said. You're lying. You're lying like a dog. ) Mr Tomislav Nikolic took his freedom, and the promoters swear again, it's a shame they can't catch these cameras here and see, too, evidence of the SRS value system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12814	Excuse me, Mr. Petrovic, please, it doesn't matter whether you mind or don't mind, I'm taking care of the order in this session, with a neat bell, and I'm warning you not to throw it to the speakers. And I also have no way of reacting when it's arbitrary by different speakers to any number, any memory of what's been said about this speaker. I ask that everyone consult the stenograms, you have stenograms and what anyone was saying, and now we are taking part in this debate, and there is a replica of what was said today after this speaker. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12815	That's exactly what I'm replicating, because it's all one frame. In person, Mr Tomislav Nikolic took his own freedom, very short time before Zoran Djindjic was killed, to make a comparison, and said, as Josip Broz had before his death one leg less, so he also hurt himself, and gave the prediction for several weeks, or how long the time had been in the beginning of 2003... (President: Time. ) It is also a clear picture of the character of the SRS and the people who run this party. Then something about this other rival of yours, therefore, of this SPS, with which you fight for the electoral body. (President: Time. ) I'm not surprised that Mr. Vucelic was found here with stories of blood that no one mentioned, but when you were in power, Curuvija was killed when you were in power Stambolic was killed and buried in a hole with paint. (President: four minutes and 20 seconds. ) When you were in power, the murder of Vuk Draskovic was attempted at Ibarska masteral and his relatives and closest associates were killed. Then I'm not surprised your blood is right in front of your eyes, because I guess that's something the Lord God can't fix otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12816	Please, time's up. He's in front of his eyes... Take it easy, for God's sake, please, let me run the session, Mr. Wolf. So, first according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Angelkovic, then in turn as the MPs reported for the line - Mr. Karaičić, so do you. Oh, for God's sake, no one has a special treatment here. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12817	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, of course, has the right to say anything here, but he has no right to insult neither the SPS nor any MP. We're not any competitions here. We are MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We would, of course, never invite Serbs to leave Kosovo, as your leader, Deputy Prime Minister, head of the DOS Parliament Club, Ceda Jovanovic works, and invites all Serbs to leave Kosovo and Metohija and sell property. He used the same sentence, as Clinton used after the June 1999 bombing when he said -- so what if 100,000 Serbs left Kosovo and Metohija. It's you. It's you, gentlemen. That's your problem. Of course, we would never do what you did, and it was personally confirmed by Zoran Djindjic that Goran Vesic funded Banet Ivkovic and his congress, and the hall, sandwiches and buses. In his office he told me -- that's what Goran Vesic does, not Ceda Jovanovic. He told me personally Zoran Djindjic that that asshole from Djelic is campaigning against the Socialists and filing hundreds of criminal charges. Personally, in his office, since he's in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, I guess everything is being recorded, so it's easy to establish. But your problem is that you don't understand it all. You do not realize that by 1989, the Serbian minister, no matter what portfolio, could not have appeared in Pristina without the permission of the president of the Kosovo presidency and Metohija, or Kosovo, rather than Kosovo and Metohija. You do not know that no Serb police officer could show up in Kosovo before January 1st 1990 to defend those Serbs who were expelled there, kicked those children off the bus, and killed. You do not know that Serbia could not do anything in Kosovo and Metohija, and not only in Kosovo, but also in Vojvodina it should not appear. You actually want to. That the Serbian minister can never come to Novi Sad again. Such a policy can never win again in Serbia. That's what you need to know. You stand for such a policy when you speak here about the SPS and that period; and when you talk about Srebrenica, wait a little while for The Hague tribunal to determine exactly what the truth is about Srebrenica, whose participation is and to determine how many people were killed there, with respect and regret for every victim who died, and to see that there were some in your Sapac who voted after Srebrenica, and are being held as killed in Srebrenica. I'd like you to establish those facts. Don't deal with the SPS. You deal with your problems, what you've done, what crimes you've done for those three years of DOS authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12818	Here you go, Mr. Karaicic. Replication to Mr. Vukic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12819	Dear colleagues, well, since I was named as some leader of the Resistance, and then the Resistance really didn't have a leader, I was among those dozens of people, and I'm really proud of it, who in 1998 responded in this way to the Information Law and the University Act, which were disastrous in our opinion and none of what I thought I had changed back then. That's what I mean today. And, since it has already been mentioned here that the truth about the Resistance must be heard, I must say that indeed Mr. Vukic was at that time, according to that former DS MP, and to others, correct, but that does not mean that I agree politically with him and that I think today what he was doing as a minister, let's say the Information Act, that it was good or correct. That's what I said back then, I'm talking today. But it's also true that a lot of young people have been beaten up, arrested, beaten by the orders of some people in various services. I'm not saying it was the people from this party or that party. I have an opinion on that. And I'm sorry none of these people, since October 5th, have responded. I'm very sorry. Not because of me, I've been beaten up a few times myself. That's what I've never talked about at this pay phone, but I'm sorry... Please, we're talking about very serious issues, so please keep your voice down. So, I'm sorry about the people in Pogorevec, who were beaten up by order of Mark Milosevic, because they wore T-shirts and badges of the Resistance and sold newspapers. I'm sorry about the people in Vlad's Han, who were held in custody for six days, beaten with metal bars, hanged for some kind of gangster or hook, and no one answered. I'm sorry about the people at ETF, at law school, at the university of philology, who were beaten and arrested, for teachers who got fired for nothing and who, fortunately, we got back to work. That's what I'm proud of. But I'm sorry no one answered who did it. Well, in my political action, I made it clear what I thought about the SPS authorities before October 5th and the DOS authorities. I wouldn't say that again. But, truth be told, I left the Resistance in August 1999. I've been speaking in various newspapers, local, less read, about it, and today I'm going to repeat - I've left the Resistance for two reasons. The first was that I saw that much of the leadership at the time was corrupt and paid for what it was doing. That doesn't mean that people who have been arrested and beaten in Serbia, young people and girls are like that. They weren't like that. They took part in the destruction of Milosevic's regime, and I congratulate them on that. The other thing is, as an individual, I wanted to do politics in a different way and I did what each and every one of you did sooner or later. I went to some party, I went to the election on that list, and I went to parliament, and last time, and now, and that's my right. Let each one of us express his attitude in that way. But, and that's very important, there were people back then, and especially after October 5th, who were going to make that story their careers, to be their profession, to be worth it. That's what I said to their faces, and I never, not today, can agree with them. You know the names, not to mention them. So those who made that career story, got rich, made money, all I can do is condemn them. A lot of people, who were later on the media, talked, talked, said, I hadn't seen them before in August 1999, ever. These few people I knew today. Mahom was, besides me and another colleague, members of various parties, that's their right. (President: Time. I'm sorry. But to finally dispel this illusion, far from the fact that the Resistance was only innocent, clean: it was if we were looking at those people who accepted this idea in Serbia before October 5th, they were involved in animated young people to vote for the opposition and against Milosevic's regime; but, unfortunately, it was not, and unfortunately, because of the few who tried to make a career out of it after 5 October, and to be the majority destroyers of various regimes and to make a rich use of it. It's true how I see her, and if anyone else sees it, then it's his right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12820	Thank you. Here you are, MP Aleksandar Vukic, a replica of Mr Petrovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from this pay phone from Mr. Petrovic, who said Vojislav Seselj from this pay phone yelled and talked about some bloody spring. Now, let me prove to you what kind of gay methods you're using -- never did Vojislav Seselj, anywhere, say it. So it was invented by someone from the headquarters of those who led the "Sablja" so that Vojislav Seselj and the entire Serbian Radical Party would accuse them of something they did not participate in. Vojislav Seselj never said that from this pay phone. You're lying, Mr. Petrovich, and I'm going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12822	I warn you, if, once again, you replace an MP's ignorance with such an expression, please, I will exercise my right and I will take away your word. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12823	I, Mr. Predrew Markovic, told what's true. Here's proof, I gave you a blank signature here, and if what I said isn't true, if he brings it, and you keep the stenographic notes, anything, I'm no longer an MP. Here you go. And you're lying, Mr. Petrovic, and you're just using lies...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12824	Please, that's what the Management Board is in charge of...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12825	... and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12826	I work here on the Rules of Procedure, not the blank signatures. Be kind, do not use offensive words in your words about MPs in the Rules of Procedure. Please proceed now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12827	I, Mr. Markovic, am telling the truth here is a question of who's lying and who's telling the truth. I'm telling the truth, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12828	It's okay, but, Mr. Vukic, as president of the National Assembly, I am obliged to lead the Assembly in the Rules of Procedure, not by the assurances of certain MPs that they know the facts or that they know the real truth. That's not my job. Be nice and let me do my job. Take care of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12829	I'm counting, Mr. President, that people here, when they come out, can make different political beliefs, but that they should be telling the truth. Vojislav Seselj is in prison. He can't answer you now, he doesn't have a chance, so think, the mice spread out, the mice spread out, so he wants to lead, so he wants to do what they think of Serbia. They think they can invent as far as they get. That's what the second mouse invented first, Free Orlic, so he spoke at the time of "Sablje," when he talked about how we should be banned, and lied all the time. I'm calling all the people who are taking part in these shows, the leaders, please release one sentence saying it's not true. But no one will say. They say, order us from the DS, it has to go like this to convince people that Vojislav Seselj is behind me, I don't know what. You are talking about Tomislav Nikolic, the one who first congratulated your president when he won, even though he won with the help of those you criticise and tear down today, because you prayed first for Kostunica's support, and the support of everyone else, so that you could all succeed together to defeat Tomislav Nikolic, all together. You made it, that's how many of you there are together, by seven percent, a little less than seven percent you got more votes than Tomislav Nikolic as an SRS candidate. Let's see how these choices go now, see where those chains and locks you said you'd take them off with Bogoljub Karic, when he supported you, and everyone else. Let me tell you something, another time comes here. You think someone's still afraid of something. No, you can do it tomorrow, if the citizens of Serbia want to, and I'm sure they won't, but in about 15 or 20 years, maybe when some other people are in the DS, they might want you to come to power. And we expect Serbia to be normal then, so that no one in Serbia throws and says, therefore, that no one ever says again what two of your MPs said today, which is: "There was little beating and there was little lynching." Don't say anything to anyone, because it's monstrous, nobody's ever said it anywhere, you said it in this high house. That was when you had a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the towers, it could be heard, but it was never heard in this room. Now it's been heard, we're going to end it. One more thing about your concern, about who takes votes from whom, and who fights for whose votes. Mr Petrovic, after researching the public opinion of the agencies close to you, who are rooting for you, one of them is the one who said that Mr Bogdanovic beat me 14% when the elections were over, at least, and it was 1.4. Now, that agency says that we have 10 percent more votes from you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12830	According to research by all agencies, time's up, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12831	Mr. Markovic, I'm done. Mr. Petrovic, we have more votes today than you and the whole government, and everybody knows that, and it's clear to everyone. What kind of struggle and voices are you talking about? We are fighting for votes because we want to change something in Serbia, because we want to talk to you as political opponents, but we will not tolerate and we will not tolerate that at any time and anywhere you say that lynching people is only good because they are your political opponents. That, Mr Petrovic, is a political past, and that is why I am sure that Serbian citizens want a different political future, and therefore their trust in any election, and some elections this year have to come, will vote for the SRS. And you, go ahead, find out where Vojislav Seselj from this pay phone spoke of a bloody spring, so let's see who's telling the truth, and who's lying, that I'm not speaking directly, I think all citizens will understand clearly from everything we've said, and also from the material that you're going to bring to make sure that they're finally being truthful, and who are those who are being deceived and false. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12832	Thank you. Please, please, all MPs, of course, will receive the word and Mr. Vukelic, and Mr. Petrovic. There's a timer, he's showing time, and I'm asking you to keep an eye on the facts and I'm warning you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. I haven't delivered your resignation yet, with your signature, the Administrative Board, there's no reason for the Administrative Board to be sitting, no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12833	So here he complains about the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS constantly for every crime committed at the time. Let me remind you, gentlemen, at the time of the DS, Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed, Gavrilovic was killed, and whether someone should now draw an analogue conclusion (and Pantic) that you are responsible for this death; that you, members of his party, members of the government, members of the regime, then, are guilty of his death because that logic is what you are talking about. Furthermore, to remind you, you led an election campaign against the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic. And that, a member of your parliamentary club, Goran Svilanovic, speaking in Nis, paraphrasing Demosten, said "Filipa needs to be killed". These are the famous philosophers of Demosten, where he called, finishing his speech with the words, "Phillip should be killed." That's what other candidates did. What is it? It's a blood call. What about your birthday party in Nis - Slobo, which is your Hague. What about the coin in the face of the Serbian president's punching bag, then also one of your actions that you had and you kept doing; and the constant calling, the constant calling for murder and death. So, you want to make out of our past, otherwise, according to your own views, your own agitation, your vision of history, one bloody chorus of Serbian history, as the one who made that division into two Serbias and on two sides of the world etc. said. That's the bloody stew that the great thinker said about 150 years of Serbian uprising, which otherwise includes your division into two Serbias. You want to make a bloody vaudeville out of Serbia. You've brought down all the institutions. For you, lynch is a way of dealing with political opponents, you have little to deal with political opponents. So what's yours: a brief memory of the people, a continuation of the lynch, a declaration of the lynch revolution, is whether, to someone who is, the collapse of everything there is, you've already destroyed the army, you've destroyed the DB slowly, all in a row, the church is on fire, all of it is your speakers, your highest officials, then government members, all of it today. The goal is, then, to make a general killing and to show everything in a white suit, and based on a brief memory and numb public power to recognize what was going on and to act as the savior of this. You speak of Slobodan Milosevic and mention the murder of Stambolic. Has Slobodan Milosevic been heard from a team at The Hague? Yes, it is. What was rejected? Did he ask for a public hearing? That's when the organs didn't agree. After that, it was published. Have you been able to prove anything about these things? Mr. Karaicic said he was sorry that no criminal charges were filed. And I'm sorry about anyone who's been beaten in this way, who described it, if that's true, why wasn't there any criminal charges? Why weren't these people who committed such atrocities processed in your four years of government? Who bothered you? Is it the SRS or the SPS? It's not. You probably had some interests to cover it up. Who knows what's been going on, etc. So we can't put these mere calendar events at the expense of one regime and one man all of them, who still doesn't have the opportunity to defend themselves. Just as Vojislav Seselj does not have, so Slobodan Milosevic does not have the opportunity to defend himself against your petty bites that you inflict on him. You purposely show, I repeat, that this resolution is justified, that it is called to protect people from such a way of thinking and such an understanding of the rights in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12834	Here you go, Mr. Petrovic. The replica was on your display. [[Alexander Vukic, from the place: Whose replica is it coming out?]] (Alexander Vukic, from the place: No, I went to the replica.) I don't want to talk to MPs, yell when they pass. Now, Mr. Petrovic will tell us, so I'll see if he has a basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12835	Mr. Wolf is out, and I don't know if it's about the Rules of Procedure or the replica. If it's one or the other, anyway, I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12836	Just a minute. I'll advise you, help all MPs, advise you, it was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12837	And if he's out on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12838	Please call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12839	So I did paraphrasise, but here's what the president of the SRS said. "I'm going to The Hague. Don't worry about it. I've got The Hague waiting for you on May 29th, so you can see who's gonna have a better time. Better me in The Hague than May 29th in your skin. "It is known that on May 29, 903, the assassination of King Alexander and Queen Drago was carried out. You may not know Serbian history, Mr. Vukic, but I know and the citizens of Serbia know Serbian history, and it is a clear parallel that the president of the SRS has withdrawn. But I'll say two more short things. You know, Mr. Wolf, you may be following those public opinion researches, and that's very commendable, you're a man who tries to deal with politics that way. One problem is the SRS: you can't win the election. It's possible, it was, it's now and it's going to be future. In 2004, elections were held twice. In the presidential election, Boris Tadic beat your candidate and you cannot regret it yet. Yes, we beat the SRS candidate in Šapec, he won three times more, but it doesn't matter for Serbia now, it's important for Shabac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12840	Yeah, but that's not according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12841	In local elections, DS received more votes than the SRS, the DS has more council members than the SRS, the DS has more mayors and the president of municipalities than the SRS and the DS will act as the government of the Republic of Serbia after the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12842	Thank you very much. Pause Just a second. [[Alexander Vukic, from the place: I have a replica.]] Please, come on, please, let's all get serious together and work together. Since we work exclusively in the Rules of Procedure, be kind, try a short replica, so I don't otherwise use your signature and what's written above. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12843	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you Mr. President for that, because as you can see, I was right, Mr. Petrovic lied. No spring, no blood. So what he knew to say here was the notorious lie and manipulation they used.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12844	Mr. Wolf, I'm sorry to interrupt, but last time I warned you not to use those words. You proved, Mr. Vukic, with the help of Mr. Petrovic, that it was a wrong quote, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12845	Let me say one more thing. Besides proving that I was telling the truth, there's something else I want to tell Mr. Petrovic. Maybe we do or we don't do public opinion research. You are right, Mr Petrovic, was defeated by Boris Tadic thanks to support and Vojislav Kostunica and that unfortunate "chains and locks", and thanks to many others. To misery and so forth. Thanks to many lies, many lies that have been told, etc. Did we say something that wasn't true? No, we said - the truth is, we congratulate you, no matter what, no matter how you campaigned, no matter how some media abused it. Congratulations and wished for Serbia to live better, for the citizens of Serbia to live better. Boris Tadic, Serbia's citizens live worse every day. People are hungry, just putting new chains and locks on factories. Serbia's president has done nothing about it. He said there wouldn't be a visa, a white Schengen list. We've also been introduced visas for Romania. I don't know where we're going and what else we're going to do after all this, I don't know what you've done right. The point is, you do, you rule, but you rule badly, that's why people want to change. That's why there's such a drastic difference in the popularity of Serbian radicals and everyone else. People want to change, because they saw that your promises were false, because they saw that you were almost exclusively telling the truth, because they saw that of those billions that came to God, there was nothing and because...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12846	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12847	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you again for bringing this back to me, you saw how brave I had the courage to give it to you, because I knew Mr. Petrovic was telling the truth. So I want to tell you one thing: we will fight to win, because I thought Serbia would be something better. If we fail to do so, we will congratulate everyone, as we have done so far. And we're never going to lynch anyone and say, "He was short of a lynch and a little bit of a beating." That's the difference between people, that's the difference between you and us, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12848	Thank you. It's an hour's break. (Dusan Petrovic throws out of place. ) It was just not an adequate quote, it's all right, otherwise you can argue with each other about the essence now. I get it, Mr. Petrovich. (Dusan Petrovic throws out of place. I just realized that by reading... You'll have your word right at the beginning. Let me get this straight. There's no reason for MPs to get from the bench. According to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it works from 10.00 to 18.00, a break is given for an hour. It's not regulated anywhere that it's supposed to be exactly 14.00 to 15.00 hours, it's just a custom here, nothing more than that, and no one's been denied. If you want another replica, any of the participants can, if they apply for it now, get it right after the break is over. After no one has applied, after the end of the break, the word has been given by MP Milojub Albianic. [[After break – 16.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. According to official records, 140 MPs are present. Please, before work begins, determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find there are enough MPs to continue our work. The word comes from MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 plus parliamentary group, and then from DSS Milos Aligrudic. At the beginning of the session, I am obliged to give an explanation of how I will conduct the session. I've been through the stenogram. During the afternoon session, there have been numerous insults against the MPs and violations of the Rules of Procedure. I fully understand passion, I fully understand the need for discussion, but not only do I not understand the need to argue, but I am obliged to all of you to take care of the Rules of Procedure exclusively. I inform you that I have no intention of taking too much time and that in this way one parliamentary group thinks that it is threatened by another parliamentary group, or that I should overlook all that are insults and that I must make warnings and warnings. Please take care of it, because we all care about respecting the dignity of the National Assembly together and working on the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me one more time, Mr. Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12850	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have in front of us something that the promoters have called the resolution on enabling the defence of Slobodan Milosevic, by suspending the persecution of his family. I couldn't agree with the very name of this paper. I'd rather say it was a wrinkled and long-lost political flyer. G17 plus with disgust refuses something like this. I really think it is necessary for Mr Nikolic and Mr Vukic to freely bid on who will be president of the SRS. It seems that it precedes Mr. Vukic to be Milosevic and Mr. Nikolic to be Seselj, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12851	Now it's about you too, the warning I gave at the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12852	So in this assembly, I also told Mr Nikolic and Mr Dacic that I would not pronounce the names of the people in The Hague. I belong to a political party, party G17 plus, who looks to the future, not the past. Unfortunately, there are peaks of political groups here whose desire is to restore the past, to feed their rhetoric a little bit, so I'm forced to pronounce the names of these people, even though I didn't want to. The leader of the SRS did not cost anything to, in what radicals call a newspaper, a list called "Great Serbia", he wrote in 1995: "The complete structure of his personality, Slobodan Milosevic, expresses psychopathological traits. The most obvious is paranoia, which has followed many tyrants and self-loathing through history. When he was a student, he knew he was lying, and he looked straight into the eyes of the one he was lying to. I personally saw how perfect Milosevic has reached as a liar, how cruel he is in conduct and performance, without elemental wit and with a very pronounced vanity. The talent for plotting, in which Milosevic is certainly unmatched, brought him unsuspecting results and represented his basic political capital." He wrote and stayed alive. Unfortunately, Slavko Curuvija, among many who wrote about the object of the resolution, was not so lucky. Many have regretted it, but the proposing's representative, by his own admission, is not. Today, ten years later, everything is different. SRS deputy leader has been appointed representative of the motion for a resolution to enable Slobodan Milosevic to defend, suspending his family's persecution. If we go further into the past, we will see that it was just the members of the SRS who were engaged in the persecution of members of the family of the current guardian of the United Nations detention unit in Sheveningen, and not just them. How else do you understand the following words, published in what radicals call a newspaper, a list called "Great Serbia", in the middle of the last decade. Now she thinks of the married companion of the mentioned prisoner. "Her journal notes show that she plays a key game in the country, that she wears pants in her house, and that Milosevic, figuratively speaking, is ironing, cooking, preparing." They say Milosevic has "the pathological structure of a person, that it is not an independent personality, that it is a man who has a great psychic falinka and that it can have disastrous consequences for the fate of our people". In his book, the Serbian Radical Party leader "Red tyrant from Dedinja" is more explicit. "She is very similar to Mao Ce Tungu, by having published a great book of quotes from his works, and Mira Markovic is the subject of volumes and volumes in huge circulations, and she absorbs little paper on the market. According to moral characteristics, this typical communist feminist reminds her role models Rose Luxembourg and Klara Cetkin, but mostly Elena Ceausescu. By the popularity of her people, she outsmarted the damn Jerin. I think Mira Markovic fits the toilet paper most. It would make its inventiveness, creativity, and originality the best way to express it. Her personality would simply be complete." The torn red duke remained alive. Ivan Stambolic kept quiet, didn't use words that hard, but it didn't help him survive. Everything's different today. Proposers have a much nicer view of the object of the resolution and its family, and among other things in the resolution, they say: "insulting with families of political opponents and non-insistents is the most shameful and cowardly way of political struggle that rudely insults human dignity and widely accepted moral standards". I'd add here that the youngest member of the Hague prisoner's family has been chasing his political opponents and unsettled men with a motor saw on fire. Is it persecution or just a kid's game of little Mark in moments when he made $12 million hard money wearing cherry crates? The motion for a resolution goes on to say: "referring that the purpose of the Milosevic family's persecution is political nature and to look, above all, at the need of members of the ruling nomenclature to and in this way - psychological pressure on Slobodan Milosevic, who is distracting him in preparing for the trial in The Hague, by preventing his meeting with his wife and son, which is an additional violation of his basic human rights – helping Karli del Ponte in her efforts to condemn the entire Serbian people through his trial for crimes that he did not commit". This part of the resolution requires special attention for the following reasons. It seems to me that a party of yoga flyers has been consulted on this resolution. Politics, nature, needs, purpose, psychological pressure are mentioned, and this is something where yoga fliers insisted on a pre-election campaign for those elections when they had more votes in Pozarevec than the JUL. I hope not, but this resolution will not be adopted, and it is also prepared not to be adopted, because everything but a legal act is because the chance to be adopted is less than the chance of yoga flyers being in the Serbian parliament. In the follow-up to the motion for a resolution, the political nomenclature is accused to help Carly del Ponte condemn the Serb people for crimes he did not commit through the process against the red tyrant, as the Hague detainee called the assembly by place of residence, the divorced duke. When I read this, I stopped and thought about it. The Hague tribunal, among other things, was founded to blame the crimes on itself. So, the promoters are replacing the thesis. In fact, they condemn the entire Serbian people for the crimes that have been committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12853	Mr. Albianic, do you want to use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12854	Yeah. If I said they weren't, I'm sure there would be a lot of former and present residents of Prijedor, Sarajevo and Srebrenica who would disagree with me. The justice of the UN tribunal's verdict has forced me to say what I just said and unfortunately, it says there is genocide committed in Srebrenica. The end of the story of crimes that have not been committed, as the resolution says.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12855	Please don't throw it away. Make it possible for the MP to complete his presentation. Please, Mr. Wolfie, I warned everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12856	Emphasising the view that no one should be above the law and that because of the position in society avoids justifiable judicial persecution, and arguing for the affirmation of the principle of rule of law, as a fundamental democratic principle on which the exercise of power in Serbia should be based, the object of the resolution did not take care of the rule of law and the law when he shared with Tudjman Bosnia. His favorite opposition didn't mean it when he pulled a gun on cabbies, students, when people were beaten in television stations, when journalists weren't "holy cows," and I could count for a long time. Otherwise, consistency is not a quality that adorns the proposings of this resolution. The 100-point Serbian Radical Party programme, among other things, said: "The Serbian Radical Party's policy has always been contrary to the Socialist Party of Serbia, because our political, economic and social programmes are diametrically opposite. No government with a single Serbian Radical Party Socialist sitting in it will enter. The Socialist Authority cannot stop crime because it is involved in it, and I am the top of it." A little later, the leader of the Serbian Radical Party and the team entered the government with the intention of defending Kosovo, as they explained. During the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, the son of the object of the resolution was armed with a cruise to Pozharevc in black uniform, thus defending the sacred Serbian country for 77 days. At that time, a coalition partner of the majority pressured him to declare victory, while they remained in the government, even though they promised to step out of it if NATO troops entered Kosovo. Consistently, there's nothing. The proposing representative said at the time: "It is true that after the loss of Kosovo it was difficult to stay in the government, but the Serbian Radical Party has no one to leave more than a million votes from the previous elections." "The Voice of the Public", October 18, 1999. What do you say? In the end, the promoters say "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings this resolution at the same time: it requires the competent state authorities to immediately break up with politically motivated persecution, in all its sights, members of the family of former Serbian-Yugoslavija President Slobodan Milosevic". I have carefully read this motion for a resolution and from this place, from this highest legislative home I ask, what if the members of the family have sinned against the law? No one's immune, we can't free anyone from guilt here in the Assembly. Everyone must be available to state authorities. Feel free to show up in the country. If there's a criminal record, or if they're wanted by the court, of course the police should intervene. What if the flow of society's development is precisely that everyone is equal in front of the law or the promoters feel that the object of the resolution and the members of his family should again be more equal than the others. So it is clear here in the Serbian Parliament that something happened in the meantime and that something over the hill is good, which is that this country is slowly but surely leading in the right direction towards the European Union. A positive assessment of the feasibility study is expected soon. So some became a little nervous. They were surprised that Mr Lazarevic gave himself up honorably in Serbia's national interest. You are surprised by the path that Serbia has defined, and that's when your anxiety comes. This resolution will be smoothly rejected or never adopted, I don't care. As for the G17 plus, MPs with detestation reject this, will not participate in the discussion, and we suggest that the other parliamentary groups behave in the same way. Here was an opportunity to show citizens who is who and what is what in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12857	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12858	Just give me the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12859	Here, I'll give you back your time. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to make any remarks about you not interrupting what you were saying. That, imagine, thought...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12861	First warning, Mr. Wolfie. Now go on. I also warned Mr. Albianic's previous speaker earlier, and now I'm warning you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12862	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12864	So there was someone here who made a few key lies. First, he said to read, second, he said he was thinking, and the most difficult form of lies is to think carefully. That was the scariest thing she said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12865	This is a second warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12866	For what? She said she was thinking, it wasn't me, she really said it, and she said it carefully that she was thinking...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12867	You know very simply why, and during the afternoon, we discussed it and it cannot be said that the MP is lying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12868	Okay, it's bypassing the truth, he said he was thinking, though, and that's obviously not true. So says a representative of the largest thief party that ever existed in Serbia, the worst mugging party that has ever been in the Balkans. So, that thief...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12869	Now you know what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12870	That thief, who neither mother is born to vote for, is seen by the number of votes. Did you warn me again?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12871	I have made it clear to you that you are not insulting any parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12872	I have not insulted any MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12873	Please, you insulted the party, and now proceed and finish. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12874	So he says, what he's talking about is yoga flyers. Yogi flyers. Well, yogi flyers where they went to the polls had more votes than you have in Serbia today, unfortunate thief, they had more votes than you do today, thieves of one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12875	Mr. Wolf, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12876	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12877	Please, I give you a warning, be kind and finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12878	Did you give me a warning because of this thief? You gave me a warning because of this thief?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12879	Who do you mean? Who do you think the thief is?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12880	I think the thief is the one who was talking, and like the whole G17 party...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12881	So the MP is a thief, Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12882	Yeah, I think she's a thief, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12883	Mr. Wolfie, I'm sorry, I have to take your word, I've warned you three times.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12884	Mr. Markovic, you can take away my word, but to tell you honestly, Mr. Markovic, and you can take away my money, you've taken away the money from the citizens of Serbia, you've increased your income suddenly, you've kidnapped them every day, you can do what you want, Mr. Markovic, but the truth can't stop you. You're the worst thieves on the globe of the Earth, the worst thieves ever to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12885	I'm taking your word. I had to take your word. Leave the pay phone. Mr. Wolfie, since I've taken your word, please leave the pay phone. Thank you. Why would I do that when there are clear means available for all MPs to be equal... (Alexander Vukic still stands behind the pay phone and talks. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12886	How much money did you take from me, Mr. President, to pay you? (Alexander Vukic puts money in front of the president.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12887	I'm sorry, you know I don't need your money. It's very nice that you added another 3,000 to the Kosovo Fund. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić. I really don't have the money to throw myself away, and if you do, I advise you, don't, better save, need someone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12888	I can't help but appeal to discuss what's on the agenda and that when we address each other, we all respect Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I say everyone, I mean all the speakers who took part in the debate today. I went out for a pay phone before I was able to talk about what's on the agenda. Of course, thanks to this atmosphere, obviously I won't be able to. Obviously, I will fail to discuss whether we need this resolution at this time or not, to discuss its constitutional foundation, its content and to say that people cannot free themselves from fear in Serbia through the Assembly resolution, but that they can only free themselves from fear through the security of the rule of law, through the security of three pillars of each government, which are separate, because in such a system they have divided the authorities, and that is legislative, judicial and executive. I missed the opportunity to talk about what has been done in Serbia so far and what will be done in the next period. Anyone who feels threatened can get protection from this country. If Cedomir Jovanovic feels threatened, so he is allowed to have police protection because he proves that there are grounds to believe that he is threatened, he can certainly have that kind of protection in some part of the system and the son of Slobodan Milosevic, because he is better than Cedomir Jovanovic or this one. So it's something I wanted to discuss and explain in detail, and obviously in this atmosphere it won't be possible. I am very sorry that such occasions as we set up the session, of course the President of the National Assembly is scheduled at the request of the MPs, usually resulting in a very cheap political debate and, of course, which the DSS MPs do not want to participate in. This way, I would like to inform you that we from the Democratic Party of Serbia, with the emphasis that we are already determined by the resolution, will certainly not vote for it, for reasons that I have, in a very short time, cited here, but we will not be participating in it until the end of this debate, because we simply do not have to witness such mutual accusations, replicas and such a vocabulary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12889	Thank you. Of course, you can, but first of all, Mrs. Pop-Lazic's Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, he has the advantage of the Rules of Procedure, so the replica. Here you are, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12890	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are leaving the room. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12891	Please, let Mrs. Pop-Lazic speak, I'll give you your time, just a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out to the Rules of Procedure, because it's obvious I won't have the opportunity to talk about this item of the agenda later, because it's obviously the will of a group of MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12893	Excuse me, please, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please... Please! Oh, my God! Please, sit down, this is the National Assembly, for God's sake, so I don't know who's threatening who behind the door. For God's sake, I keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure about how MPs behave in the National Assembly. Now, please allow Mrs. Pop-Lazic to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, again and excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12894	Mr. President, I'm amazed at today's session, and I think you're responsible for today's epilogue of this session, that this is and how it was staged, that Mr. Albianic spoke with such a charge, with such hatred, not realizing that this is 2005. And there may indeed be a need for many who are involved in politics or think that we are dealing with politics to remind ourselves that Slobodan Milosevic has not been the president of the state for five years. The man is in Cheveningen. Our commitment to accepting and proposing this resolution is precisely because of the fact that the DSS has now cowardly left this session. If all institutions were to act in accordance with the law in this country, we wouldn't need this resolution. But because of political pressure on certain institutions, above all, the judiciary and the MUP, we had to resort to one political resolution that would allow the judiciary to work solely on the basis of the law, not on political pressures. I really wanted to, if I was given the opportunity, and I probably won't, to speak first of all, I am a politician and at every moment I speak as a politician, as a woman and as a mother, putting myself in the position of who we're looking for today. Each of us can find himself in a situation where Milosevic was found. Here in the country or somewhere out there. What will happen to our families? Do our children have the right to take college exams under the same conditions? To be hired? That they live normally? Does the same punishment apply to our children and to other people's children? Enough revenge. Let the men return to the ground. If they had confidence in the institutions of the system, they'd probably come back on their own. This resolution should only show them that such a political will is in the country. If they are guilty they will answer under the same conditions as all other citizens of this country. And we're not looking for anything else. And that Milosevic in Cheveningen obviously needs, like any of us, contact with his family, and now it's so hard to secure. What is it that makes you hate that man so much, if you hated him for 2,000, that you hate him today, when you know what he's doing there? Is it possible that you don't have enough political hearing, that you don't have so much human in you, that you don't think about your children, your grandchildren, the tomorrow that defends itself there in Cheveningen? I really can't believe it, and I don't really know how Serbia's citizens are going to interpret this debate here today and hold a large number of MPs. I'm glad we tried. There's an attempt. Whether it works or not, we've done our part. It's not just up to us. But it is embarrassing for all those who today could not rise above daily politics and think stately, to bear the burden of burden and responsibility, not only for themselves but also for generations to come. That's why I was really so amazed at Mr. Albianic's discussion from that place, that it's a good thing he left the O.R. because I don't know how it would end. It's come to me to come and rip out these microphones here, not to let a man talk so much nonsense, because that's what the whole world listens to...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12895	I'm warning you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12896	Well, do you really think that these sessions of the Assembly are only looking at our public. Well, you want to go to Europe, split up, with a vocabulary like this. For five years, you can't overcome revolutionary methods. That's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12897	Thank you. I'll keep you posted. Replica? Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, what replica? (Alexander Vukic, from the place: you. Since I haven't spoken in today's session, you can't give me a replica. The president of the assembly didn't speak. If he wanted to turn around, he'd stop for a pay phone and turn around. Please, please, Mr. Wolf, let me work on the Rules of Procedure. I have a lot of patience for everyone. I see how passionate it is. I warned you about that, you weren't in the O.R. when I first warned... Please, I'm holding tight, I haven't seen a thief anywhere. There are only MPs here, and I have warned you all, please, all MPs, in the interest of the MPs of the people, I have warned that it is done exclusively by the Rules of Procedure and that the dignity of the National Assembly is respected. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, DS and SRS. The word is from MP Bojan Kekic. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: How can it be before?) According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Mircic, and then... Just a second, let me explain. Allow me, Mr. Mircic, just to be clear, because apparently the report of the SPS speaker arrived first, then DS speakers, then speakers, later, with a little delay, SRS MPs. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12898	What you've been practicing lately to introduce, it has an exact and precise name, detached in the people, it's a bar story. You across the table, across the board, talking to my colleague, Alexander Wolfich. That seems to be common when it comes to the SRS parliamentary group. You can explain when you let an MP from this pay phone ask you. And if someone asks you from the scene, it doesn't get into the stenogram, Mr. President. That is clear because I warn you that you respect this Rules of Procedure and that you respect the basic principles of parliamentary democracy. We're all here, my dear colleagues, on the exam, to show how consistent we are in implementing that so-called. Parliamentary democracy. One thing I can't understand is that since the beginning of this assembly, the president has been intending to favour the position of his parliamentary group. We are familiar, President, with your personal weaknesses within this parliamentary group, and that is a normal reaction. It's human, no one resents you, but you can't go so far as to tolerate everyone's behavior here. Because how else do you interpret the behaviour of members of the parliamentary group who use this debate to blacken the president of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj, as they call him - the red duke, and you keep silent. You do not warn, you do not warn. And when an SRS MP tells the general truth about your party's honesty, you take away your word immediately. What's with the arches? After all, we're taking a moral exam here, and you haven't shown anything that you've successfully mastered it and you've passed it. How can you, as it allows you to be aware that you, whose party president was the vice-president of the federal government, Slobodan Milosevic, have defiled Slobodan Milosevic, as it allows you to be aware that you defile Vojislav Seselj, whose parliamentary group is the most numerous in this House. You have no morals, no cheeks, never have and don't play. This is about the principled attitude, not individual parliamentary groups and individual parties, this is about the principled attitude of this country. Are we going to help the Hague indictees or are we going to say publicly: no, the majority mood in the Serbian Parliament towards the generals, the future arrests of the UN tribunal, we will not help you, surrender voluntarily, and then we will deceive you, we will not take big money like they did before, but we will not help you. Tell those people openly that they know what's waiting for them. You've already cheated General Lazarevic this way. You will not help a man who, you are aware of the facts, defends Serbia, no matter what the Hague indictee is called and his last name, and at what function he was in, each of them is accused of what the indictment says, what Serbia and the Serb people were doing. You're talking about Srebrenica, and you're not ashamed. Srebrenica is evidence that has been coerced by the criminal Paddy Ashdown to admit that the Republika Srpska parliament was a genocide in Srebrenica. And why is that? To abolish Republika Srpska, to establish the statehood and existence of the Serb people, as they intended, on genocide. You go on hand to all those who think like Paddy Ashdown. It is no wonder for certain parliamentary groups, but I am surprised by the same fellow MPs that you, as a party that is humanistically defined, who, while you were in power earlier, even took care of the children of criminals, Shipara, Lukovic, Legion, took them to prison to see your parents, where you lack that humanity, which now does not help the children of Slobodan Milosevic to return freely to the state, whose citizens remain, what kind of morality is that? So when you run out of arguments, you refer to the man you only saw in the picture. The late Zoran Djindjic for some of you had a much worse opinion than some fellow MPs say from this pay phone. When you run out of arguments, run immediately and call upon him, and swear upon him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12899	Time, Mr. Mircic, finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12900	The review of the "Sabbe" action will clearly show who he was and what role he played in that time. You'll see, nothing will be hidden. Don't think it'll always be a political argument for you, like the Ibar highway. Do not call for the death of Ivan Stambolic, the investigation is not yet complete. Don't build yourself up in advance. Why? No need, maybe it is, maybe you weren't directly involved, but... (President: six minutes, Mr. Mircic, please finish. )......................................................................................................... Which you're already saying in advance that you're not, don't, you've been transparent for a long time. When Cedomir Jovanovic announced that he was in danger of life, his first party, this faction, reported, says, protect Ceda. And why do you dress up like that, why do you reveal yourself, why are you immediately saying that you are being threatened by a direct danger? Show some morale. Help where you are able, where you can, allow the children of Slobodan Milosevic, Vojislav Seselj and all the Hague indictees to visit their parents, fathers. And why is that? Because, my dear colleagues, in 1994, to tell you something from this pay phone, you said words like that when there was a blockade on Drina, when it came to survival... (President: Mr. Mircic, it's the seventh minute, wrap it up. )......................................................................................................... Republika Srpska, so you can be in The Hague. Don't think they won't take you to The Hague, they will, gentlemen, especially what you say from the democratic bloc, only those who stay alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12901	This was according to the Rules of Procedure. So, in both cases, I have addressed MPs under Article 99(2) that no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure, as well as on the basis of the third position - during the speech of the MPs and other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech, and I have used the possibility from this place to prevent it. Are you satisfied with the explanation? Thank you. The People's Messenger Bojan Kekić has the word, as I have announced, and then let the MP Gordana Komic be prepared. Let me read to you a member who has confused many, which is Article 91(2), if the debate has been attended by MPs from several parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly gives them a word in turn, so that first the MP who is a member of the least-ranking group speaks to them, up to the greatest, as long as there are registered speakers. The MP group, of course, doesn't have to use the time until the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the resolution ahead of us should allow Slobodan Milosevic to defend himself in The Hague, and in order to defend himself in The Hague, as someone said, 100% of his will, with his authority, would have to adopt this resolution, to end the persecution of the Slobodan Milosevic family. I am sorry that my fellow MPs from the DSS and from the G17 Group plus left the hall, because I am an MP from Pogorec, and most responsible and with the most facts I can tell you what happened in Pozarevec before October 5th, and especially what happened on October 5th, and perhaps even to this day. The question arises whether there was persecution over the family of Slobodan Milosevic? Not that there was persecution over the Slobodan Milosevic family, but there were persecutions against many Socialists, many people who were in vital functions in the municipality of Pogorjevac. The Satanization of Požarevec as a town after October 5th, which began before October 5th, and that the city was closed, allowed many to attack the family of Slobodan Milosevic, Slobodan Milosevic himself, satanicize the city, and those people who live in it. I repeat, I feel bad that the MPs from these political groups have come out, because many of them could also confirm what happened in Pogorevec. I am actively involved in politics as a graduate lawyer, I left the bank in 1992, and for 15 years I have been in politics, and to tell you the truth, in Pozarevec, the Socialists have been in power for 13 or 14 years, with a small interruption that lasted for a year and a half, but not thanks to the elections that were held, but thanks to this persecution and terror. When it comes to Mark Milosevic, it must be said that Marko chose to live in Povorevec. His parents were born there, he defined himself as not living in Belgrade, but he lived in Pogorevc, he was doing what, you all know, that he managed to gather 5,000 people at the Madonna discotheque. Many Belgraders and half of Serbia then came without any incident, laughing, many now sitting characters, as they say in the Assembly, were then coming to be in a position to be as close to the family as possible. Be assured that it was so, we all have a lot of friends, friends and acquaintances, and it has happened to us in life, that anything happens in our environment, if we are a public figure, is attributed to us, or it is said, it is all Marko's fault, or it's all because of Slobodan Milosevic, or anyone else. I am talking about the elections held in September 2000, the elections at three levels for SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic had 10,000 votes more in Branic's district than Kostunica. The list of three MPs, adopted by two MPs, was carried by Mirjana Markovic, so it was not, as it were, Satanised Mirjana Markovic, by everything else, that did not help anyone else win the election. In all eight municipalities of Braničev County, the Socialists beat it all, which they say was fine if it wasn't said that we had stolen the elections, that we weren't afraid to organise the elections, but we came into a situation where, after the big crisis headquarters, the pressure and everything else, we took power from Pogorevec, even though we had 35 councilors compared to 33, how many of these groups, and in the elections, we had a 38:30 relationship. The additional elections took place, and we again won all the additional elections, so somewhere in June 2003, we started to take over the government, and after three years, the legalists, or the DSS, handed over power to us. And, here, in these elections in Braničev County, but above all in Pozarevec, again the mayor of Socialists, the Socialists rule again in five or six municipalities. G17, who bought our staff from Zaguvica, originally from Zaguvica, was a member of the main board, was the vice-president of the municipality's assembly, was elected a boy from Laznica, elected mayor, and this is their column that Albianic spoke of earlier. Not to talk too much about it and stuff, it's a question of whether there was a persecution. Now I'm just going to tax you out what's been going on in the Fireman of those days. The work of the Resistance in Požarevec, the worst one is just illustrated, and if the book "The Shadow Game" by Tim Marshall is taken, everything is explained, but the much bigger explanation given by the "retors" from Požarec, who are "retors" in Belgrade, or who financed the organisation. All the media and the day and day, whenever someone from the Fire resistance comes forward, they're giving out the punches. What's characteristic, there was no physical contact. I don't know who was of the "response", except for that fight, which the investigative authorities will determine and determine what actually happened, and many more invited experts are who will respond, or who caused the fight, why it was caused, whether it was a motor saw, whether it was, people who were in a situation to see the case, to determine what it was and how it was, will have the opportunity to give the verdict and the verdict of Mark Milosevic on 4 March. I have to tell you that in December 2000, you know that, "Sabbe" was a little kid what was going on in Pozharevec when a special unit was formed, a specialized unit, in "Blica" came up with the title "Forged Jump", to review everything that was done, what the Socialists were doing. On January 8th and until January 25th, as well as perhaps the first socialist in Požarevec, every day I was from 9:00 to 15.00 hours with SUP inspectors, who called and the first jump they made in Požarevec, questioning and questioning one 30 people what anybody was doing, whether something was doing Marko Milosevic, as the house of Slobodan Milosevic was built, whether oil was smuggled. No single application from that period, although people came with very high tasks, at least that's what they told us, with a big, what it says, perhaps even a professional relationship, it turned out to be, no single application was. Surely, when I think of that period, it's hard for me, but it's the biggest capital of every single person in Pogorevec, because of the thieves, as they called us, we don't have any applications. I will also explain this particular case of mine, because given the MPs who are left behind and who want to hear it, above all, I respect their attention that they are now paying attention to. The arrival of "Produced Product" in Požarevac meant the continuation of the Centre for Agriculture. I'm not saying that in a negative sense, but the essential thing is, here's today after a year the Center for Agriculture is in bankruptcy. Right after 2003, "Blood Product" broke through, and in our time 150 or 200 women came in front of the municipality that there was no pay, and there was pay. No one's protesting today, and the entire fire industry is in bankruptcy. Dude's been here twice. He first came when he was kidnapped and stolen from his official car, as justice minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kalashnikov. The second time was the other day as a legal representative, for the first time appearing as "legal representative", it will prove the court's case, damaged in the case against Marko Milosevic. Batic came, I'm sure, to politicize the process, because Batic needs one thing. I don't know if you've had the chance to watch this show on Pinka, Klopka, he was, too, when Batic began to cover up behind the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has just authorized him to carry out the kidnapping and anti-constitutional and illegal departure of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague. And now I am convinced that Albianic also participated in this because he just called President Milosevic the object of the resolution. Therefore, it is true that they delivered it as a package. Since there's a lot to talk about, I'll let my colleagues know. There are also people from the Security Committee, who will best qualify what happened to the family at the time of "Sablje", there is Ex-Minister Jojic, who runs the process and protection, there is Aleksandar Vukic, who came to Pozarec several times, to visit Dragan Milanovic, and then we were satanized because we were in "Kurure", that we were unauthorized, and Vucic and I were mostly friends, and on that basis, legally, we were. In order for my colleagues to have time, there's only one thing I have to say. While we were all running, 250 of us, or how many candidates there were for MPs, I have to tell you that, in order to tie up the work of the state authorities, I've been subjected to a classic attempted murder. In 2003, the second day of St. Nicholas, when all of us for our sons provide tree, I provided for my son, two criminals, mercenaries, for 300 euros, came to Pogorec, metal bar waited for me, hit me behind my back, the tree saved me or God saved me. They were in custody for seven days, and after some time until today, I got unofficial results, not a procedure was initiated, but a procedure was initiated not for attempted murder, but for violent behavior. I ask the MPs, if I happen to be involved in a fight or cause a fight, because it can happen in the end, that I answer that I tried to kill myself, I ask them to understand, and they know that this is the truth I said. If I was overjoyed that day, because I provided my son with a tree, whether there is an MP who has a son who has not seen him for four years and whether there is an MP who will vote against the resolution, and the purpose and purpose of this resolution is primarily that Slobodan Milosevic sees Mark Milosevic's son.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12903	Replica, MP Aleksandar Vukic, to the presentation of Mr Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12904	Thank you, Mr. Kekic. I'll be perfectly calm to say, Mr. President, even though you didn't deserve it by your behavior, because you let him say things here, that in the worst way possible slander, the ugliest expressions benefit. You haven't tried to break it in almost one word. I even agree that even today what was between me and some other MPs shouldn't have commented, we're enough for the two of us to tell each other what we think. But anyway, I think that after all, you took 30,000 dinars from me, and this, that. What he was saying here, you didn't take anything, it seems to me, it's for the best and the most talking about you. But I want to look at a few things that are a very serious story and a very serious insult. In fact, someone here mentioned the death of Ivan Stambolic and some other death. I'm asking if any of you are accusing any of us? If that's what you're gonna do, I'm gonna say right now that thief killed anyone. As he accuses, that's not the least of the problems. Let me tell you, the one who lies, the one who steals, and the one who steals, and the lot of them stealing from that MP group, is not far from killing, and none of us have anything to do with it. As far as the SRS MPs are concerned, we have had one president, we have always had him since the founding of the party since 1990, from the Serbian Freedom Movement until today. His name is Vojislav Seselj, not Slobodan Milosevic He won't, you poor bastard, but go out for a pay phone and say, "Don't throw a mouse out of there all the time." [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] So, the president of the SRS was Vojislav Seselj, I assure you, and somehow it seems to me that at the next congress he will be elected president of the SRS, and we are doing this, regardless of our ideological differences, regardless of all the differences we have with the representatives and the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, because we think that every man must be protected, his family, and at the same time we have to try, because it is in the interest of our country and our people, to help that defence. It is not a matter of defence for Slobodan Milosevic today, either personally or anyone else in Serbia, but rather a matter of interest and importance for all of Serbia. (President: Time. ) That's why the SRS MPs agreed to participate in this business, and that's why we wanted to talk to you civilizedly and normally, but it looks like the thieves prepared some other plan, made it, forged it, wanted to provoke us. That thief threatened something and called from here. I went out, I calmed him down, nothing happened, don't worry. (President: I would like to inform you that it is three minutes and 26 seconds, please complete the replica. I'll finish, Mr. President. It's not my intention, and I'm not going to bother you anymore, and I'm not going to disturb you, because it wasn't the kind of thing that used to say. I'll break up too. I just want to say one more sentence: the way you insult people who are unable to stand up to you or who are behind bars is best talked about the immorality of the one who has spoken these words and those sentences. The poor are those who rejoice in another's personal misfortune, the poor are the people who flourish and rejoice that someone is sitting behind bars without knowing any guilt, except that they are their political opponents. I promise you, thank you again for taking those 30,000 or 32,000 dinars from me, thank you for that, Mr. President, I hope you won't do it in the future. You can pay attention to these thieves of yours, they have a lot more money, so you can take it, but it won't stop us from beating you at any next election and showing you why Serbia so much is crying for change, why people want a different Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12905	Replica, President of Predrag Markovic Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12906	Mr. Wolf, there's no reason to deceive the public. The President of the Assembly, whoever he is, can't take anyone's money unless something violent scares him or in any other way. By referring to the Rules of Procedure, he can do so by warning once, for the second and third time, and only then make a warning, which I did. He can do without it, then the MP who came into this situation, for that, on the basis of a warning, goes before the Administrative Board and the Administrative Board decides whether to take him away, I don't know if, three or four thousand. It's very incorrect to mention me as the man who took someone's money Please, Mr. Krassic. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I'm asking the chairman to allow me to speak without a pass. So I've never taken anyone's money for a very simple reason, there's no need for that. I made my money neatly, you know. I have warned you today that it is ugly in front of Serbian citizens today to throw money, and especially here, and in no way do I bear responsibility if an MP comes into the situation that, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, he is warned, and the Administrative Board gives him the punishment. The president of the National Assembly cannot be blamed in any way, and he certainly does not take away the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12907	Mr. Markovic, I owe you one explanation. Mr. Vukic didn't throw himself away the money, he just speeded up the payment, which he was normally obliged to pay at the cash register to the Serbian Parliament, according to your decision. So, he only paid early, so he doesn't fall in late.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12908	Since the President of the Assembly is required to explain, once again, Article 101(3): "On the basis of the measures set out in Article 2(2) of this Article, the Administrative Committee also imposes a fine in accordance with the provisions of Rule 105 of this Rules of Procedure." The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Ljiljana Nestorović, and Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12909	Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution, which, with the consent of the ruling majority and the opposition parliamentary group, is on the agenda, is not a place in the session of the National Assembly, and it is unnecessary to discuss it. People's MPs are getting to ask "what"; I'll explain. That's what the debate is for, to be explained by the speaker, or the speaker. National MP Tomislav Nikolic enjoys non-verbal communication, the president of my middle finger parliamentary group, my kiss. So in this National Assembly, we need to discuss the anti-remorand, not the wording of the resolution that is before us. I will prove why Serbia needs anti-memorandum. Through discussions and in this debate, unnecessarily, for many citizens and citizens of Serbia, something indisputable is being carried out, which is that we all call October 5th a revolution. Since we're all politicians and politicians, we know the revolution is gone if it wasn't a dictatorship before that. Ten years of pure dictatorship, in which the government controlled the opposition and in which all efforts to build democratic institutions were assumed, neglectedly assumed, with intent to neglect, blood fans, soil and defence of national interests, in a document that never passed a single national institution called the Memorandum. So if we agree that October 5th was a revolution, and it was, then we have to agree that there was a dictatorship before that. All attempts to describe the period between 1990 and 2000 in any way other than dictatorship are a denial of reality. I don't name that dictatorship, nor will I ever name the guilty, but I will always name those responsible. In 1990, the people you suggested in the resolution had a choice, the same choice that we have today. Today, the same seems to be chosen again between Europe and the Memorandum, and while we are MPs of the Democratic Party in the Serbian Parliament will not again make a positive decision on the Memorandum but on Europe. What was decided in 1990 decided on the Memorandum, and these are the consequences. The decision was on the minority who ruled Serbia, we all suffer the consequences. Why do I think we need an anti-memorandum in Serbia? Because we need to agree that there is an illogicality in this congregation too. Less or more here are opposed to two opposition parties in Serbia. It is not normal for the country's country to discuss two opposition parties and a little bit of collateral. What's this all about? A friend of mine, commenting on what is happening, said - the opposition has a comfortable majority in Serbia, and certainly also in the Serbian Parliament. Why is the ruling majority not involved in the debate on important issues, as is the case with this package, because it is ordered, and who is still promised that these resolutions will be seen. So let's discuss how our political ideas are opposed, because they are. The Democratic Party defends, promotes, implements and will always defend, promote and implement European Serbia's ideas. The Serbian Radical Party is doing so with the ideas of Greater Serbia. Both the programme is legitimate, and one and the other programmes for those who have a political choice on the political market and in the political election. Where's the difference? The Democratic Party programme is a European Serbian programme. It does not produce harmful consequences for anyone. Why are we ahead? Because the Greater Serbia programme is a smaller part of the European Serbia programme. And what we need to agree on, if we agree on that, is how in this assembly to get to the anti-memorands and to get to the point of stopping in Serbia, to reach national agreements on various topics, to blame, to demagogue, to insult, to block the processes needed in the Assembly, and to insult the common sense of the people we address in the end line. The text of the resolution, before I comment or two on the text, something about the procedure. Therefore, the resolution signed by 104 MPs and delivered to the president of the National Assembly has 60 days to be put on the agenda. Since we are all political people, then it is clear to us that we are entering the stage of the favorite opposition party, which is agreeing with the leading ruling party on what to do with the Serbian Parliament. The problem with the favorite opposition party is that they are capable, talented and crafty politicians, and that is now what is seen during this debate. However, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, a completely wrong assessment has been made. So, in an attempt to top the title, and in agreement with the ruling coalition, the idea of persecuting the Slobodan Milosevic family is opened, we are going in turn to challenge and annul the one-by-one argument offered. Since March 2004, until today, if they participate, either Interior Minister Jocic, or Justice Minister Stojkovic, or Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, or Deputy Prime Minister or one of the ministers who has a special interest in persecuting the Slobodan Milosevic family. If this is an idea, then the only logical thing would be for one opposition party to address the other opposition party for aid, since it believes the ruling majority is persecuting political insinuators. However, this is not what happens, but it is what happens with the ruling majority and this session. The second argument is that the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic is qualified as illegal and illegal and that persecution of those who are employers is sought in this regard. So that's where we come up with the idea of where he attacks the Democratic Party, where he attacks Zoran Djindjic, from the amazing sentences we've heard here, which is that Vojislav Seselj and Zoran Djindjic are in the same position. No, and fortunately for me, it won't be. I hope that Vojislav Seselj will survive in health all the consequences of his decisions, but it is said here for this speaker that they are in the same position and also cannot see the children and grandchildren of Vojislav Seselj as well as Zoran Djindjic. It's nothing like being in the Alley of the Giants and being in The Hague. There is talk of political persecution, of the shameful and cowardly way of political struggle, and my question remains, less for the Serbian Radical Party, and more for the Socialist Party of Serbia – to whom do you address? They at least congratulatingly, very clearly and loudly, and tradeably quite correctly, except for this poor assessment, destroying the government, stealing DSS voters, stealing your voters and your voters, but at least you have a clean situation about political persecution. Gentlemen of the SPS, you are sitting in the government, which you claim to be politically haunted by Slobodan Milosevic and his family. I am not inviting you out of this minority support or to do anything else, but you are obliged by the Serbian public to explain how it is possible for you to sit at the same time in the government that persecutes the Slobodan Milosevic family, to support it in every way possible and then tell us here how they should be saved. From who? By the government of Zoran Djindjic – killed March 12th. From the government of Zoran Zivkovic – finished on 28 December 2003. The chairmanship of the same ministers who agreed with the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague. Part of the anti-memorandum, and in that sense, my respect is more worthy of this opposition attitude, regardless of the wrong estimates, of the Serbian Radical Party, than of the unfavourable position of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which does not even have the courage to say a single clear statement about the Hague, but rather requires that the Serbian Radical Party, on their behalf, perform affairs on the illegal, illegal and unconstitutional work of the government of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of Zoran Zivkovic. They're sitting in a government that has all the instruments to bring down the decision of the previous government. He's been sitting in that government for a year, but when he can't do it, he can't. You know, when you're incompetent, then even radicals can't help you, unfortunately. What's supposed to be a definitive message from a debate like this? It should be explained to people that all of us in the October 5th revolution, after a ten-year dictatorship, and in building democratic institutions between 2000 and 2003, and in building democratic institutions here today as we sit, should convince us all that it is wrong. How can I tell you? Never. October 5th is the best day of Serbia's newer history and will remain the best day of Serbia's newer history. Why am I offering you an argument on the anti-memorandum? Let's meet on something we can work out. The SRS programme on Greater Serbia cannot be realised through any other means than the European Serbia programme. No other means: no Russia, no conspiracy theory, no secret weapons, no surprise decisions, no no. I can see you're in pain, but there's no, how can I tell you, there's no. There's only European Serbia. And what we need to agree on, and you know very well, I understand you, it's hard to extend our own political agenda, and we're prolonging it, so those from the DSS water government, I totally understand what you know without error while I'm saying, it's a serious step, the first step to make serious arrangements in Serbia. The texts of this kind, which eventually come down to a campaign about the name Zoran Djindjic, or the Government of Zoran Djindjic or his ministers, the texts we heard here and, most interesting of all, the name of Cedomir Jovanovic, which is repeated in discussions here in the Assembly, are proof that you are seeing something, or you are hunching and you know more than the rest of us. Then divide the facts, and not the general places, and not the sentences, those who remain alive will see. We never want the killings to be the elements of pre-election or political campaigns. We of the DS have neither used it nor used it at any time. We don't want other people's accidents to be the elements of the political campaigns, so not even this family that's involved. The resolution, I repeat, is offensive to many citizens and citizens in Serbia. What is the conclusion of the resolution, they assume, unfortunately, the promoter shows something for the first time, which I have not heard from the SRS, which is that it does not respect the people of Serbia. What was good at speaking to the SRS was always a dose of sincere respect to whoever they were talking to. If you expect this agreement between Vojislav Kostunica and anyone to swallow you as a sincere concern for the Slobodan Milosevic family, then you are in grave error. It's one of the delusions that can be solved by an anti-memorandum. There are no members of the Slobodan Milosevic family who have a problem with us in Serbia, whoever rules to visit their husband, father or grandfather in The Hague. They have a problem with those who should give them a visa. It doesn't help, this resolution doesn't help those who should possibly give them a visa, that they do. What I personally think about ten years of dictatorship, pure dictatorship, everything that happened between 1990 and 2000, what I think about bad choices and the responsibilities of those who made the wrong choice in 1990, and now we all pay that price, and what I think about how big denial that the wrong choice was made, it's my personal thing. I don't mix that with a party attitude. We can discuss this, as we have discussed so far, with each other in this room, in an attempt to survive together for ten years of dictatorship, survive our joy, and your disappointment that was October 5th and try all together to survive the disappearance and departure of the best and greatest among us, who led the Government of the Republic of Serbia between 2000 and 2003. Everything else will be a pro-longing of bad and unhealthy relations on Serbia's political scene until the moment we bring an anti-memorandum. Finally, I have to quote colleague Blagica Kostic from the SPO, who had only one word, which is probably a picture of the mood of the good part of the citizens in Serbia, when she said - I can't, I'm sick of watching us all together here in the Assembly about nothing. Not wanting to participate in anyone's torture, and especially not wanting to contribute to anyone's torment, please show your maturity, reason and responsibility immediately and withdraw this motion for a resolution. To prove that you are ready for some other real agreement with the ruling coalition when it comes to the status of the Slobodan Milosevic family and to prove that there is no will or energy in what we say today for any political persecution, disqualification or worse. In the hope that what is in your political craft will respond well to what I am telling you, I thank you and I really want to see that we have agreed that this resolution is an unnecessary document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12910	The word is held by Parliament Speaker Pedja Markovic, based on the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12911	You're right, Mr. Nikolic, today some people beat me, some people admire the writings in the papers, and it's not correct either. This is the National Assembly, and we need to maintain seriousness. Mrs. Komic, it's really hard to understand that people resent someone who works by law and I have to talk about it all the time. You correctly quoted, yes, the President of the National Assembly has the right to, when requested by some 84 MPs, so a third, to extend it for 60 days or to decide 60 days. At the same time, it means, of course, the possibility of being influenced, questioned, and I know that many can draw different conclusions from that. I don't understand why you never draw a normal conclusion. So the president of the assembly can meet the MPs, because as there are 60th, there is a first day. This is my personal attitude, and I'm not used to getting out of trouble. If there is a problem he wants 104 MPs to talk about, then of course I will allow it to be done under the law, because I will always act the same way, trying not to make a difference between political parties. It's possible, and I think you're right, people haven't learned that every institution is responsible for what it does, so from there your analogy is possible that someone has made a deal with someone, decide whether they're opposition or not. I'm sorry, I can't think of a single moment to distinguish MPs in this way. Nor do I mind when, say, last night, DS, MPs, support the amendments of the SRS; why, they are MPs. Do they influence going faster to Europe or slower, they decide, citizens choose them, I guess I won't decide. Which is handled by 84 or 104 MPs, I don't want to make decisions, I don't judge motives. The President of the National Assembly must take care of the letter of the law and the Rules of Procedure. If it wasn't visible today, and in the days before, it's not easy to piss me off. I have no reason to be upset because I understand that there is a debate and that there is passion, but I have no idea that I am breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I have no idea that I am not allowing MPs to accomplish what they are entitled to by the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, and I hope it is in the interest of everyone. And, once again, I ask you, as I had to explain it to Mr. Wolf, so do you, I'm sorry, I don't think I'm doing any different. I will work by the Rules of Procedure and by law, and I hope that it is in the interest of each of us, each of you individually, to do so throughout the country. We need changes. They're only possible if they're legal. If they're not legal, they're definitely violent. I can't stand violence, but I'm not afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12912	Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic (SRS ambassadors detest).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12913	No, no, here you go, Mr. Petrovic, I know you've called before, but I respect that the chairman was here and I respect the chairman. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic, so just to be clear, there wouldn't be a problem. Please, it is true, before that the MP Vucelic and MP Kostic appeared, but be kind, since the chairman gives the word, I respect the chairman who gave the word. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12914	I will briefly, Mr. President, since you, in your presentation, which was a replica, mentioned how the Democratic Party was held yesterday, as a representative of the Democratic Party and as president of the parliamentary group, I need to comment on that. So, the Democratic Party here is the opposition and the Democratic Party acted as an opposition and did not vote for the law you were talking about yesterday, but it is very interesting, Mr. President, that you, acting naturally in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that no one here has put it as an objection, you have decided to "cut off" the law on privatisation, the law on the action fund, the law on the paper market of value, to "cut off" the debate on judges, the debate on prosecutors, and your assessment is that this issue, which is being debated here today in the Assembly, is more important than all these points of the agenda. You personally and personally made that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12915	Of course, the word first has a representative, Mr. Nikolic. But, please, since I am obliged to inform of the course of the session, and at the beginning of this session it is said, and there is no reason to deceive the public, please, that the session is scheduled in accordance with the agreement of the heads of Parliament and, please, don't, I'm talking about the date. Here you go. I'm just talking about the date. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would have the opportunity after every speaker to come out and only to correct the inaccuracies or the iniquities you make. And I don't feel the need every time, but I have to respond to absolute untruths, or let's just say the poor analysis that's been done. I let Mr. Markovic speak before me, I know what he's in, and I really understand that. So here is a conspiracy theory which is completely absurd, which could not be explained by the one who was exporting, and I don't believe that the citizens of Serbia understood either. But, as I understand it, I have arranged with Vojislav Kostunica to discuss this resolution, in which I will attack the Democratic Party and Vojislav Kostunica. If I were Vojislav Kostunica, with all the things I don't appreciate about him at all, I still think there's so much brain that you wouldn't agree with me. True, this resolution accuses those who have begun persecution and asks those who are now in power to stop this persecution, which indirectly means that the persecution was continued even when they left power. And it's not this session that's scheduled to bring down a party that's been torn down by power, it's scheduled because it's wanted by 104 MPs. Mr. Markovic might have been deaf if only the radicals had asked for it, but since the Socialists asked for it, he has to take care of it. 'Cause the question is, would you hold the next session if he pissed off the socialists, so he doesn't schedule that session they're looking for? And that game of numbers was present while you were in power. I know how much you've suffered for it, but what you're going to do is, that's how the votes of the MPs are summed up. Something else here may be even more important, this October 5th grandeur and everything that was done on October 5th. If the people had accepted it, you wouldn't have lost the first next election. In the next election, voters would not vote for those who attacked October 5th on October 6th. So I took part in that October 5th on the side that you were on, and I'd look to make earrings, to cover myself up a little bit, to change my looks, to let my beards, to have people recognize me, because I fall into Carina's rifles, to fall into the People's Bank of Guns, to hit people in the streets, to burn down the Assembly and the city of Belgrade, it doesn't work with the synonyms of democracy, as it doesn't work with my synonym dictatorship that you say existed from 1990 to 2000. And to remind you, the multiparty elections were in 1990, 1992, twice, 1993, then 1996, 1997 and 2000. Maybe I skipped something. Even at the end of May, we had our first federals. Eight times we went to the dictatorship elections in 10 years. In those 10 years, forget 1994 and 1995, single them out as democratic years, as they were then spoken to enter the government immediately with Milosevic, but the condition was for Zoran Djindjic to be Prime Minister. It was not a condition to democratisation the SPS, but to give you the post of Prime Minister. The actions of Vojislav Seselj, who you say suffers now, are much more like them, but they are much braver than Zoran Djindjic's actions. And I've seen Zoran Djindjic through Drina, both in the Palace and everywhere. Now, the SRS delegation was in one side room, and in the main room there was roasted vo, and there was a delegation of the Democratic Party. And find this in the book of Tomislav Panajotovic, a book called "The People's MP", describes how in the evening, MPs who were then members of the DS were happy because Djindjic told them - I was with Karadzic all day, and Tomislav Nikolic sat with a member of the DS, Ostojic Velibor, and received Karadzic Tomislav Nikolic only in the evening, when we left the Democratic Party for Belgrade. So what's who, how much for your actions, when it's a war to defend the heart, let it judge the time. And one more thing leave time, and that's who deserves to enter the Alley of the Great. In the Alley of the Giants, if someone asked you who was lying there, except for Zoran Djindjic, of course, you don't know who was lying, and even if he showed you his name, you wouldn't know who that man was. Time to make sure he forgets someone, even if he's in the Alley of the Great. Some people, who have not arrived in the Alley of the Great, will never be forgotten, and almost all of Aleya, even honest and honest, and true fighters, have long been forgotten. So the fact that you put your president in the giants right away, that's not a proper court of history. It's your court. And we didn't say here that Seselj and Djindjic are in the same position, but that they are in the same position as the political party, the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party, except that this has proved fatal to you. You immediately, like cats, got all worked up, and this party, thank God, is getting stronger and stronger, and no one can break it anymore. It is not true that the Milosevic family cannot get visas until the indictment and release of an APB on Mira Markovic was visited by Milosevic in The Hague. You stopped the BOLO from visiting him and it had nothing to do with the visas. There they are obliged, obliged to give members of the family visas, and that question is not asked at all. The last thing that hurts me, it's your story about the anti-memorandum. The only memo you have in your hands, that's the SRS memo on KIM. If you really claim that you should bring a memorandum against what we have delivered to you as a representative group, then there is no discussion with you about authority or opposition. Against that memo, you can only write something that will explain even better what we want, but none of the ten points you will not be able to kill, nor the public appearances of the Serbian president, I see that it refutes the memorandum, and you are refuting it by talking about the anti-memorandum, and I really care what bothers you in the SRS memo on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12917	Three replicas are now, first Mr. Vucelic, Ms. Kostic, and then Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12918	Since the SPS is mentioned, I have to tell Mrs. Komic, as I replicate her, I address her, October 5th is not a revolution, and nobody called it a revolution. But in the light of history that claims that after every dictatorship comes a revolution, it's possible it's called a revolution. Whoever knows anything theoretically about it, after dictatorships, there are no legal revolutions, nor do they come from dictatorships. That personal view of history also gives rise to the accusation, and I am sure it is the SANU Memorandum, if this is a memorandum, so that the memorandum is qualified a little harder than Jeffrey Najs, the UN tribunal prosecutor. He never said it was a theory of blood and soil and defense of national interests. It's about the great Serbia. This is where we get a fascist disqualification of the Sana Memoranda. I must also remind Serbian citizens that they participated in the defence of this memo in an up-to-date manner, alongside others, Ljubomir Tadic, president of the DS Political Council, and no less part in all of this, along with me in the "Library Journal" of his time, and in the academys, and in discussions and publications, was not even Miodrag Perisic, who was vice president of the DS for a time and senior official of DS for a time. This view of you on October 5th also means eradicating everything that precedes the creation of DS, not to mention other names of intellectuals who are founders, who are thus classified as blood and soil theorists and defences of national interests, nor the SANU Memorandum represents an anti-European pamphlet or anti-European text, but only one of the European responses to the breaking of Yugoslavia and a warning about the breaking of the Serbian people. It's another propaganda and another story. Therefore, an empty story. Furthermore, I must say that this history is filled with these calendar dates that have been declared historic. There are countless dates forgotten, in oblivion, which were declared two years later, five years later, ten years later, as if they were historic, and today there are no such dates in any history. You know, someone once wrote that they were filled with a cemetery of anonymous painters who took pictures of Mona Lisa's mustache. So it's not going to change da Vinci's Mona Liza and its classic value and the impenetrableness that we're going to point out or draw anything on that classic drawing. Toma Nikolic has already said it is not about visas, it is about warrants. Let me remind you of something else, those warrants weren't there while Zoran Djindjic was alive. The warrants and persecution of Mira Markovic were not there while Zoran Djindjic was alive. Only when you, referring to him, got to the authorities, did you radicalize that persecution and did what you did. In your vision of power, you're surprised that the government hasn't abolished it. Yes, when you ruled, it could easily have been abolished, filed charges, dropped charges, arrested, returned, etc. This government, and that's why we support it, and we're not sitting in the government, is not resorting to this practice of concluding that someone is being judged, someone is being prosecuted, persecuted, or arrested, but is trying to eliminate the consequences of your volunteer government. You, in conclusion, sent to The Hague, sent people to The Hague and wrote indictments in Belgrade, as Carla del Ponte admitted in her address to the American public and to the American Congress, and the interview she gave to our votes. So that's your view of justice. We are not sitting in the government, and we have not just gone through government, nor trade, nor tried through ministers, but we are trying to choose to remove the consequences of a perverse policy through a political resolution of the highest legislative body. Otherwise, I am very pleased that the DS voted last night for a large number of amendments that it had previously kicked out of its labour law, which was proposed last night by the SPS and SRS parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12919	The Messenger of the people is Blagica Kostic, and the Messenger of the people is Gordana Komic. This first is a replica of Mrs. Komic's exposure, and this second is a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was truly surprised to see that the motion for such a resolution was on the agenda. I think this is an attempt to cause amnesia in the works of the public. Let's remind ourselves of the circumstances related to October 5th. The Milosevic family should be very grateful to God for the mercy that the bearers of the petoctobar revolution had given them, because everything they had done to their people from 1990 to 2000 indicated that they would end up as the Ceausescu family. We remember wars we didn't participate in and remember the sacrifices we won from a war we didn't participate in. Let's remember the pyramid savings and remember the old foreign savings. Let's remember the murdered members of the SPO, who were killed while they were glued to posters, let's remember all the unexplained murders that happened in those ten years. We remember three assassination attempts by Vuk Draskovic, who lost the lives of four SPO members, left behind 11 orphans. Let's think of counterpart Pantic, co-worker of Curuvia, as well as the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. But to return to the text of the resolution. The resolution is a dangerous precedent and a difficult violation of constitutional principles of the division of power and equality of citizens. The division of power into legislative, executive and judicial power is the basis of all the democracies of the modern world, so I hope there should be a basis for us, too, if we want to be part of that world. In such a situation, the proposed resolution, which introduces additional rights to members of a family, represents a dangerous precedent that could have far-reaching consequences on legal certainty, the rule of law and the special reputation of parliament, which would adopt and violate the constitutional principles of equality of citizens. The assembly, as the most legislative body, must not be a place to decide on someone’s guilt or innocence. The assembly must not and under any circumstances, and with no justification, assume the role of the court and the judicial authority. That would be an inadmissible blow to the principles and fundamentals of criminal law, but also constitutional law. There's something else I'd like to add. Part of the Milosevic family is located in Serbia-Montenegro territory. It's Mrs. Maria Milosevic. No one's after her. No one is persecuting Mr. Seselj's family, the family of the other Hague indictees. Mr. Seselj's son never wore a black uniform and no one was chasing him with a chain saw. Please, let everyone look after their children and let each of them answer for their children in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12921	National MP Gordana Komic, and before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12922	Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Rules of Procedure have been injured, because MPs are required, as you know, not only to speak the truth, but also to speak what they are mostly preparing. From what Mrs. or Miss Blagica read, I must note that the ghost of Danica Draskovic is hiding. Anyway, I don't blame her, it's her parliamentary, political and parliamentary obligation, but we've been here all day discussing something that's not about today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the persecution of the family of the former president of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Today we can judge political parties in one way or another. Of course we know that you are political opponents of the SPS, Slobodan Milosevic or the SRS, Vojislav Seselj and anyone else. It's your political right to think differently, it's your political right to say that your policy is wrong or correct. No one has the right to make advance judgments and judgments about some of whom the trial has not yet been completed. You know, when Bozidar Djelic is now talking about how the executive authority should not interfere with the judiciary, when some ministers of the former DOS authorities, such as Marija Rašeta, were arrested, were immediately said to be released from custody, that no one was guilty until proven guilty, and for the Socialists and radicals of part, because they were not so much in prisons, it was premeditated, not that parola "no one is guilty until proven guilty", but everyone had to prove their innocence in court, instead of those who burden him prove that someone was guilty. The verdict is first published, and then it is announced that no political process has occurred. You're talking about RTS logs. At the time of DOS authorities, the Socialists could only appear in the diaries when someone was arrested. Of course, I wouldn't talk about how everyone assesses political rule, whether it was democracy or dictatorship, but everyone has to understand that time of threat and political pressure, physical coercion, is the past. The SPS has nothing to do with any past crime. The SPS has nothing to do with what is being respected here today for us and for the president of Serbia, and that is what I want to say publicly and openly here. On the other hand, many should explain what they were doing at the time after October 5th. Was it democracy or dictatorship? Was there a vote here from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, whether MPs were torn up here and bribed, whether the arrested people were under political leaders' decision, whether Slobodan Milosevic was taken from prison and kidnapped on the basis of orders from an unauthorized person, assistant or deputy, I don't know what Minister Batic was then, the gentleman's name was Vulic. Will someone be responsible for breaking the Constitution and the law? As for that, I really want to point out here that we should talk about the essence of this problem. This isn't a political debate. If you want political debate and political competition, then we'll compete. This is where the yoga flyers are mentioned. If some parties continue to work like this, yoga flyers will be a political role model for them. So, as far as we're concerned, the SPS, once again, we are gathered here today based on the demands of 104 MPs, so 82 SRS and 22 SPS MPs, to discuss the subject of which we have the right. What gives you the right to show that the president cannot schedule that session. The president does not schedule that session, it is scheduled by MPs, and the president only sets out the time when the session will be held. Those of you who talk about democracy and tolerance, for you it's only democracy when your opponent hangs on a bandit or is in a CZ, or if you can't even get him to go to The Hague. As far as this is concerned, it is well known and the trial will clearly show who was protecting and those who organized the crime at the Ibaric Master's Office. Don't be surprised that some new Baby Popovic is starting to say something new. You, those people you hung out with, they ran politics in this country, and the DOS presidency was just a statute committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-18-0.u12923	I have to interrupt, I'm sorry, the session's on Monday, February 28th at 10.00. It is the People's MP Gordana Comic's turn with her replica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 111 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusan Mrvos, Leila Ruždic-Trifunović, Zarko Korac and Dragan Sutanovac. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAMME OF THE DEFENCE OF THE DEFENCE OF THE FREE MILOSEVIC IN THE HAG, WITHOUT THE PROGRESSION OF HIS FAMILY (addition) I give my word to the MP Gordana Komić, a replica to the presentation of the National MP Tomislav Nikolic.
