ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14251	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I invite you to pay our respects to tragically injured passengers in a car accident on the Frog Bridge before continuing our silence. Praise them! I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 138 MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Bojan Kekic, who will be late. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Stojanovic, elected from the election list DSS-Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Zoran Stojanovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Please enter the O.R. and join the paper. It's already here. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Article 94(2), and now I'm going to explain it to you. In Serbia, fearsome things are happening, which directly affect the collapse of the state, which affect the increasingly difficult position of one part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I went out on behalf of the SRS and on behalf of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, who were asking us who were in Kosovo and Metohija; I promised them I would do it today. We ask that you call for consultations, stop the session and put on the agenda what is essential to the citizens of Serbia and the topic concerning Kosovo and Metohija and its survival within the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you why. There are several direct reasons for that. One of these reasons is that everyone announces, from European and international forums, that the final status of Kosovo and Metohija will soon be resolved, and no one within our authority is able to say that this issue is finally resolved by Resolution 1244 and that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia-Montenegro. On the other hand, we have the appearance of an DS MP who was first released by Bogoljub Karic, and this morning we see that the main guest is in some other media, which is funded by Soros, who is to propagate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I would especially point out one fact, not to use it for political points, but to show you how dramatic it is – the MP even said that as foreign minister, as someone who has performed diplomatic activity, on behalf of and at the expense of this country, he asked that Kosovo and Metohija be an independent state. This is not only a unique case in the history of the world, in the history of mankind there is no such example. In diplomatic and consular history, something like that was unrecorded, not the same. I think we need to ask the question of what the competent state authorities are doing after writing Milan St. Protic, after a confirmation by the former foreign minister himself, asked for Kosovo's independence at the time of his ministry. What are all the state authorities doing in this country, who are you going to ask on a globe for anything if the prosecutor isn't responding? Is there a crime in this country? What are we discussing today? About putting something on the agenda in a year or two that we don't even know if it can survive, whether or not it can survive in legal traffic. Our country is collapsing. (President: Time. It's not time. I'll finish. I won't be long. So, people in Kosovo and Metohija say -- we want to know if that's the state's position, whether it's Tadic's or Kostunica's attitude, and not as Svilanovic says -- my friends Tadic and Kostunica are grateful that they will keep quiet and say, "Look, we've been silent in front of the international community, and in front of the local public, they're going to say "that's the crazy Svilanovic, we're not interested in him." That's what he said, that's what Goran Svilanovic said and the point is either you make a public statement to say whether it's this country's policy or not. On the other hand, let me tell you what your policy is. Your policy is to show the people in Switzerland. The mothers and sisters of the 20-year-old Serb children, the people who were killed in 1999, tell them – isn't the news that Dejan Stanojevic, 24 years old, has been sent from a cave by someone where they found his body, one bone sent to be buried in Prilujje. You don't care because you've decided to present to the Serbian citizens that everyone lives like Switzerland, because you wanted to tell them that it's never been better on a globe in no country in this world. That's what we have to change, and that's what has to be different, about talking. If we're to lock ourselves here, lock the door, and no one leaves this room until we get a solution to what we're going to do and what we're going to do about Kosovo and Metohija, what we're going to do and how we're going to save our country, and not here to discuss whether we're going to write down someone's property and whether in a year or two we're going to pass a law that doesn't have to, and maybe it can't survive in legal traffic. (President: Thank you. Five minutes are up. Thank you, I'm not finished yet. (President: Be nice, within three minutes you can go by the Rules of Procedure. It's five minutes and 36 seconds now. Be nice, finish up. I'll finish, Mr. President. I didn't come out to make you any kind of obstruction, whether I'm going to speak for a minute or two longer won't bother you so much. Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija of Serbian nationality are in great panic, people do not know what to do. People wonder if they should buy things and leave, because it all looks like someone will inform them that Kosovo is gaining independence. I'm just asking all of you, and that's what we told the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija that we can do, at least try at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to break this pointless agenda, to talk about it, and then continue and vote whatever you want and whatever you want. Let the state take the final stand that everyone will hold, and not every minister as it falls to him and what he thinks of coming out – less than independence, more than autonomy, or I don't know what. We have to finish this story once and for all and know what our policy is. This is incomparably more important, and that is why I ask you to do this right now, because it is the only way to calm down our people and tell them that it is Serbia and the component of Serbia and that it will not find anyone in Belgrade who will accept it. What does that Milorad Todorovic, head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, do to you? He's with Svilanovic on the same team, in the same group. He is a member of your Democratic Party of Serbia. Say it's not true. Say he didn't deal with Svilanovic about it. Let your Kosovo parents tell you, don't grab your head, Vuko Antonijevic and everyone else knows it. Right, Mr. Antoni? It's true, Mr. Antonievich, you know I do. With this story to stop and finally finish and tell people that Kosovo is Serbia, if nothing else we can offer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14253	I have knowingly, since it was about the Rules of Procedure, broken the Rules of Procedure, with your consent, allowing Mr. Vukic to speak three and a half times as much as the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, because the subject is important, and that is the subject, please. We have a replica of Mr. Aligrudic. Since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 94(2) of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. However, this applies, of course, to the situation where these consultations are not being carried out. Fortunately, this assembly is responsible, this meeting has not only brought about a resolution and adopted the government's plan, which was made according to the resolution, but is constantly being consulted, as well as with the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, with whom I keep talking about everything we can do. The only thing we know for sure is that we won't help people in Kosovo if we don't do our jobs, us or other institutions, and I realized that part of your appeal is that all institutions do their jobs. We will, of course, do our part, and one way is to speed up this session and expect help from you. Here's your line, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14254	The state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, the stance of Vojislav Kostunica, is mentioned here and ultimately the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Please remember this once and for all: the Democratic Party of Serbia will never agree to the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, Vojislav Kostunica will never agree to the independence of Kosovo and Metohija and this ruling coalition, which today represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has a very clear and decadent policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, and we all know that. If that is why, to redefine this, to reopen the debate in this National Assembly, there is no need for such a thing. If it is for those who give themselves the right in this country to make statements that make it known to the international factor that someone here would agree to an independent Kosovo and Metohija, one such should be ashamed of what he is saying and let him be struck by everything that can be struck by the law and the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14255	Replic to whom? Why the replica? Do you accept or ask the Assembly to plead on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14256	I didn't want to, and I don't want to go on with the replicas, and I don't want this to go on forever. I don't think we had to repeat today, we could sit down and figure out what our positive plan is. There is no such thing as what we have adopted unanimously so far and what has been rightly accepted by the Serbian Radical Party, and I don't think you could have had a single remark. As far as we're concerned, Tomislav Nikolic suggested this morning that with this very proposal we go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and he said that I only bring it out because we directly promised the citizens of Kosovo and the Metohija that we visited last weekend. One more thing, I'm asking you, is your district chief, a member of your party, the one who insists on it? As far as other matters are concerned, I hope you're all right about what you said and that you won't give up on it, but I ask you if this resolution, whether all resolutions and all the general acts we adopted in the Serbian Parliament were unanimously adopted. They did. A representative of a parliamentary party proposes an independent Kosovo. Isn't that enough reason? Is it not enough reason that none of the authorities have responded to such a thing? Absolutely no state authority has responded to that. That means we can break in here now with Kalashnikov, do whatever we want, because it's much less dangerous than what he did. He admitted that he was a minister -- it's not a shame, he's like a minister, and now that he's talking when he's not a minister, it's his personal matter and his Democratic Party, I don't care about that -- foreign affairs at one dinner asked officials of the world's largest force for independence from Kosovo and Metohija. He said it publicly. That's not what I said. That's not what anybody else said. That's what he said. That's the essence of the whole story. Mr Markovic, one more thing: we do not contribute by completing a debate on what may or may not be in legal traffic; we do something if we solve the vital problems of Serbian citizens. You can't tell me that much more important than what it costs to travel to Kushadasi and back, in Saturday's "Dnevnik", than what parents, brothers and sisters said to those who brought one bone to bury them in Priluj, Plemetina, Obilić, Kosovo Polje and other Serbian cities. This cannot be more important news, and the entire National Assembly is responsible for it. That's what the government is responsible for. That's what we're all responsible for. I know you like to show that the situation is better than in Switzerland, but it's not. Our people live hard, people struggle, people fear for their fate, for their future. You have 410 children in the tribe, 500 children in Prilujje, what they will do and who will pack them tomorrow when someone tells them – that is good, independence. They're asking this Svilanovic, he says -- the Serbs are moving out, what to do. I guess the National Assembly has some answer to that. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf. () Good for you when you're up to time. The National Assembly has no time to lose it on pointless legislative proposals that you put on the agenda, and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija have no time to wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14257	Please, Mr. Aligrudic, replica on the replica? Be kind, do our job and contribute effectively to the establishment of the state. I thank you for understanding, and this is an appeal, beyond the Assembly there is certainly no agreement on the future of a part of Serbia's territory such as Kosovo and Metohija; it is clear that at this moment we are not able to do anything else. Once again, the consultations will continue. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLICATION AND EvidENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENT(s)) I would like to remind you that at the end of the session of the National Assembly on 14 April 2005, and during the review of the amendment to Article 1. The bill, for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, was announced by MP Zoran Krasic, who submitted the above-mentioned amendment. Mr. Krassic, are you giving up? Yeah. ) The word according to this amendment has the People's MP Verica Radet, then Vojislav Milajić. It is an amendment to article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mrs. Radeta isn't here. The People's MP Vojislav Milajić, then the National MP Milan Stevovic, then Petar Jojic, and Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14258	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law and Article 1 provides for a record and a list of assets seized by 35 regulations, which is the law, which is the regulation adopted by the FNRJ in the period from 1945 to 1953, and is bound by one suspicious date, which is 9 March 1945. It's completely unclear why it's taken as a stone between March 9, 1945. It also lists the basis on which the assets to be recorded have been seized. It's nationalization, agrarian reform, confiscation. However, not all of them are the reasons why someone was taken away from their property. Someone was taken away without compensation, someone with compensation, someone was taken away by confiscation, and justified. There are members who have been in the Quislin formations, who directly participated in the war against our country with the occupation forces and who have justifiably been seized and confiscated. Agrarian reform, which was implemented in 1945, and a new law on agrarian reform since 1947, is not a patent and invention of a socialist government; one agrarian reform, much bigger and more comprehensive, was carried out in the 20th century. It was carried out by King Alexander Karadjordjevic after World War I and lasted 10 years. This agrarian reform has taken over two million hectares of land and divided by agrarian stakeholders; the figure moves around 600,000 people. The entire process of agrarian reform lasted about 10 years, so that much more countries were taken away from 1918 to 1928 than was done from this controversial date – 9 March 1945, although we do not know why this date was taken as a stone medium. If they wanted to return the seized property, they could have gone back and gone from 1918 to here. The restitution itself is so controversial that one injustice, which has been done by taking the country away from some people, cannot be corrected by making a new injustice to some other people after 60 years, which should correct that injustice that took place 60 years ago. We believe that for the SRS not only this member but this law is unacceptable, as it was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14259	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 100 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or dignity, was injured at the end of Thursday's debate. He was violated by Mr Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and an accomplice to this, to my surprise and to the surprise of other opposition MPs, was also Mr Milan Markovic, who was currently chairman of the assembly. It is that Mr. Aligrudic abused his right to the Rules of Procedure, went out for this pay phone and then read, I don't know why, "Great Serbia" from 1991, which is commendable for you, Mr. Aligrudic. What is not good is that you tried to belittle both the SRS and its president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, saying that in 1991 we also advocated denationalisation. We are now saying that nationalization has done a great injustice, it is not disputed. It is not disputed that we once had different attitudes, but, Mr. Aligrudic, only a fool doesn't change his mind during his life. It wasn't the same situation in the country in 1991, it wasn't the same situation in the environment. Mr. Aligrudić, then the economy worked, now it doesn't work. Then there was a much greater possibility that at least part of that nationalised property would return. We have proved to you and on practical examples that what you are doing now is pure demagogy, that you are not planning to bring back to these people anything that has been taken away, nor do you have any means of money provided for. What actually represents the biggest injury is your procedure after that. There were several minutes until the end of the session that day, Mr Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, applied for me, according to the Rules of Procedure; you told DSS MPs to draw cards and then asked the chairman of the National Assembly to interrupt the session. That's what it is, Mr. Aligrudic, which is certainly a shame. You can go on the line as long as you want, so I mentioned you ten times, but it was indeed below each level, and it must certainly be below the level of those who want to lead the state and those who represent the president of the parliamentary group of the largest parties in this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14261	I really didn't understand why I was an accomplice to anything he thought was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, I had no other option to interrupt the session in a situation where there was no quorum, and since it was three minutes until the time worked out, you know it was impossible to determine the quorum. Mr. Aligrudić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14262	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. So it was similar to what you just described, but not exactly the same. I reported to the Rules of Procedure, and I wanted to point out that the Rules of Procedure are being insulted by the abuse of certain commercial rights of MPs. You have in both the judiciary and the court proceedings an expression called abuse of procedural rights. They're classified as such, they're not controversial, but they can be abused. When it comes to reporting according to the amendments that are submitted, which have all the same form and consist of a member being deleted, it is the same number of amendments as the members of the law, it serves only one purpose, and that is to extend the debate in the debate on the debate in particular. That's my attitude, that's my right to say and there's no problem. Of course, in the context of this story on the issue of the abuse of procedural rights in this assembly, I did present certain data from a magazine called Views, not the 1991 Great Serbia. It is an interview by Dr Vojislav Seselj, in which he spoke about the issue of return of property or the duty of the state to compensate for the kidnapped property by the communist regime. And it is not disputed, as it is not disputed that any of you can change your mind every two days as much as you want, but it is your political right. That's not why I'm criticizing you. It's your right and you advertise yourself that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14263	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Aligrudic has partially told the truth. Partly. So it's an interview from 1990, and Vojislav Seselj really said the property should be returned to the Karadjordjevics. You forget that Aleksandar Karadjordjevic sentenced the Serbs who have defended themselves against the incursion of the Zengi and that since then, the SRS has taken a negative stance towards him, which it has maintained to this day. You forget he was never on the side of the Serbian people. It's just a matter of time before we give him back his property. We would not give it back to him, but you returned it to him; so behold, they fled about the property, around the white court, who can enter, who cannot enter. You imprisoned him for the people, you gave him to an English citizen, an English officer who swore an oath to the Queen of England. He once took an oath and became an Englishman forever. Why do you have the right to warn political parties that change their attitude or opinion? When you mention something that we said earlier, you honor us with a change of attitude or a change of opinion. What I could tell you about DSS, novels to write. Man changes, man evolves. Here you are, if you're 1965, but 1966... What year are you? Milos Aligrudić: Find out. One year you were born, that year you peed in your pants. I guess you're not peeing in your pants right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14265	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14266	Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, if you were old enough to wear your underpants after birth, I have diapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14267	The word has a National MP Milan Stevović, so Petar Jojic, you can't. Is Milan Stevovic here? It's not. Milos Aligrudić, do you want the word after the amendment? You won't. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Excuse me, Mr. Jojic, you answer the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14268	When they give you wings a little of these from power, Mr. Markovic, you rape yourself, but slowly, wait, everything has its turn, and that. The session takes place, unfortunately, with this unvulnerable law that I now have to discuss, and the amendment of the distinguished colleague, Mr Zoran Krasic, who is also from the ruling structure, but also to the whole Serbian public, has shown that as an exceptional acquaintance of this area, as a lawyer, he has the right to convince you with further arguments today, if you did not understand from the principle of discussion, that this law should be withdrawn. This isn't the law in the right sense of words. It is unclear, and we told you this during the debate in principle, and therefore we ask that the first member be deleted, that is, on behalf of our SRS parliamentary group Mr Zoran Krasic, who are the natural persons who are entitled to submit their application and to be interviewed. This, I repeat, is not a law. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable for us to commit this quasi-law to a future government, which will certainly be radical, and the future assembly majority, which will certainly be with at least 126 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, so that through this intensity in Articles 8 and 9, it is directed to some law on denationalisation. You are not able, ladies and gentlemen of power, to do what is now your legal obligation, not to perform futuristically every day and to promise here something that is both by the Constitution and by all positive legal norms impossible to implement in action. Again to remind you, personally Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus said that if it ever comes to that future law – and we believe that it will not, because our congregation majority will not put it on the agenda for a number of reasons that we have laid down and in an explanation, this will be written by Mr Zoran Krasic – it will take $60 billion to compensate all those who allegedly claim to be entitled to their property. Why do I think you are unable to do any of what you now have a legal obligation to do? I will show you on only one case from my forest area, and this is the municipality of Knic. Maybe some of you had a chance to get past the Georgian lake, or across the bridge. About 90 hectares of land privately owned on the edge of Lake Gružan, and in order to create that necessary accumulation for the town of Kragujevac, it was taken from former owners, and not during this period that you are talking about, or before World War II, but about 20 years ago. The damaged are certainly the Mijatovic family, Mijatovic Radojka and Dragan, from the village of Kusovac; they have received the municipal court's executive verdict to confirm their right to compensation under the law adopted in 1997 at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine, in 2005, the court decided, in March of the month, to pay them for four hectares of the country's estimated value, but the estimated value in that nominal amount of 1997, almost eight years later, 40,000 dinars. This is half the salary of the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it is doubled by your will and by the majority in the Administrative Committee. Half of the parliamentary salary is offered by the court to the people who in turn gave four acres of their fertile land. It wouldn't be a problem if you told us, first of all, the people of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, that it was a case found and that you had nothing to do with it. The problem is that, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are today, in addition to these catastrophic cases and human tragedies and the sacrifices they bear on behalf of all our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, and these sacrifices that a common peasant and every man endures for survival in the power of those who do not care about the state and people. Namely, they were informed in that solution that their debtor, who is the JP Vodavod and the sewerage of the town of Kragujevac, is not sure how the account will tighten interest from 1997 to 2005. For them it is absolutely the same 40.170 dinars in 1997 and today, 2005. Well, tell that finance minister of yours, when he returns from these routes, that and how well-known the way in which the billing is tightened interest and that and how the Bond Relations Act prescribes it. Every citizen, just the same way he's being robbed and how he's being harassed by these Dinkic raids, has the right to get what's his. At the move of one of the Roman airports, and I believe that Fumicino Airport, in the 1980s, was one Italian landowner, did not allow the airfield to expand by one hectare of its assets until the moment it received compensation from the government. He has the right, according to their constitution (and this is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia), to defend his private property and not get enough compensation, and therefore, at the time the dispute broke out, one of the cabinet ministers fell. Here ministers are not only not to withdraw and not to resign but to continue to be ossious and arrogant, as well as the whole government that thinks that with these 12 - 13% in the electoral body – and the question is whether today and so much, when you gather you and those who support you – you can get votes. Explain then to the family Mijatovic Radojke and Dragan from Kusovac why you cannot return what belongs to them under these laws, then come with some of these abnormal projects, such as this survey paper in the law on registration, whose first member, Mr Krasic, proposes to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14269	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not clear under what circumstances the proponent forgets about the country's return from the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which is part of the Republic of Serbia. There is no word in the proposal for this law on whether this law will cover the country's return seized before 1945, and in 1945, as the proposal envisions and how and in what procedure it will be possible to do so. The Republic of Serbia owns geodetic footage, the government of the Republic of Serbia owns the entire Kosovo and Metohija cathedral, which is deposited in the current Republic of Serbia, and I am surprised why the AP territory of Kosovo and Metohija is not covered as well. The bill had to be more precise and had to cover the AP area of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is a Serbian country, and especially as it is about Metohija, a church country, which is a large area, which is now occupied. Does this mean that the Republic of Serbia has given up the cataster, land and cadastrian books and all records owned by state authorities on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia? The bill should have provided that, if someone considers that this law should mean something and that it would be applicable, that it would also be covered by the country's recovery procedure, that the surface should be established and that it should be returned to and taken away from. However, there is no letter in the bill that the Republic of Serbia cares or cares and cares about the country, on the surface of its territory in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. This had to be covered by a special chapter and it was specified that the land had to be recorded and recorded from whom it was taken and who, if the conditions were to be returned, had to be recovered. Secondly, it was necessary to provide for and establish, given Kosovo's status, that Kosovo is occupied, in what way and in what process will establish the market value of the entire Serbian property seized by the communist laws of Josip Broz. This is also supported by the fact that after the October revolution, no one remembered the previous government, nor this one, to pass a law that would put aside the laws of Josip Broz, which banned Serbs from returning to the area of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. to your, Serbian country. As for the recording of this property, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that the state authorities have records of the seized property and that this bill is absolutely inadmissible and there is no legal relevance, so before it is prejudged here – it will be vomit; but when, "it's not a smoother donkey to green grass", "a promise of insane joy". That we have the text of the law, which says: land and industrial facilities and all the moving things that have been taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be returned, then it should have been foreseen in what procedure and whether there are assumptions for this, whether there are 60 billion dollars or not, and not only to propose a law that should impress voters and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to think about how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have lost their property after Joseph Broz and the laws he has passed. I will remind you, MP Markovic also cited 32 legislative projects in his amendment that took away property from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, starting with agrarian reform, the PZF, confiscation and not counting in all ways. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill represents one thing, we're wasting our time, we've had a lot of work to do. National MP Aleksandar Vucic visited several settlements in Kosovo and Metohija on Saturday; they visited Serbs, schools, Serbian poverty and citizens -- Serbs from the Kosovo and Metohija area asking to discuss vital interests in parliament and their lives, their property. I believe that this assembly has left one of the priority issues, to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, at the moment when Serbia's territory is at risk. National MP Aleksandar Vukic explained this in more detail, so I expect this parliament and our MPs to discuss this very important state problem soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14271	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. I would ask the MPs to observe five minutes of time. The previous two MPs spoke for more than seven minutes. I think there can be a discussion of the five-minute amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to talk about this amendment not because this law and this Article 1 deserve some of our comments but because we have been busy here for a few days, a few weeks, months and years, while part of our country's territory is being kidnapped, robbed, while Serbs in enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija live in the ghetto. I am one of the people's MPs who were with Mr. Vukic; I watched, on the one hand, the Serbian villages of Priluje and Plemetin, and the people on the other side of Sitnica have property, property robbed by the Arbanas. Imagine, we are passing one of these laws, which should apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and unfortunately, part of our territory is occupied. So this law will only apply where the state of Serbia has jurisdiction. Looking at and reading what some expert group is doing, including that traitor Svilanovic, where Kosovo's independence is predicted in some four stages, I can say that this monotony of this assembly, or the assembly majority, and this lack of interest in the current government in Serbia reminds me of that third phase. The third phase is ahead of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Is it possible that we allow ourselves to discuss in this way some irrelevant laws, some political pamphlets, to discuss a survey list, because this law is more like a survey paper than a real law, and at the same time not to worry about the fate of our state of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija? It's incomprehensible for Serbs and all patriots of this country. Unfortunately, there are laws here that do not have any effect on the citizens of Serbia. I wonder if all these legal projects, which you say we're bringing in to coordinate with the EU or perhaps with someone in Brussels, have brought something good to the citizens of Serbia. Perhaps it would be better to pass a law that would cover this period since your five-octobar revolution, so let's say, when you sold out the workers' property for nothing, so today you have almost every city in every factory across Serbia strikes. There's a sale of property, whether it's a godfather's route and connections, whether it's through a link between the agencies of your exhibits, or in any other way, but the fact is that you left more than 800,000 workers on the street, those who are struggling to return their property, that that property is sold at a price worth it. Just recording under this law is absolutely unnecessary. Why? Because the state authorities, i.e. the authorities of the Serbian government and the municipalities, have the exact information on how many countries have been confiscated, how nationalised, and how much of an agrarian reform has been taken away. This could, therefore, have been done in a short way, with it being an estimated exact value, only then to make a law that could partially deprive citizens of Serbia. In this way, we will allow the citizens of Serbia to stare all year round looking for their deedes and papers, so they can report their assets, but it will never have anything. Gentlemen, it's already been understood by a part of the citizens; so you see that you already have citizens' paroles in front of the Assembly, which reflect that they do not trust you when it comes to this property recording law. Citizens don't believe that. Citizens are also seeking the truth to apply it in practice, i.e. to make a law that would really predict the return of property to damaged citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14273	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14274	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 1. The bill on the application and registration of the seized property on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was submitted by Mr Zoran Krasic. It is not true, as some say, that all the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are the same, that they are patterns and that this is why it is not democratic or that it is aimed at delaying this debate. It's exactly the opposite. Whoever has read the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, and I hope that many of you are such, can notice (which, of course, viewers can see) that each amendment of the Serbian Radical Party is different, that everyone has a good reason. Here, this first one is explained on the half side of the densely typed text, but yet we do not hesitate to give you an additional one, unless you are aware of anything, and we think that we could convince you, explain and get more MPs out of our MP group and make sure that, for the sake of the benefit of our citizens, you can accept both this and all the other amendments of the SRS. Article 1 of the proposed law regulates the application and registration of assets seized in the territory of the Republic of Serbia without compensation for market value or fair compensation, the application of regulations and acts on nationalisation, agrarian reform, confiscation, sequestration, expropriation and other rules adopted and applied after 9 March 1945. Here, first of all, we have one logical inconsistencies, because we require registration and registration of property. Who is this property being reported to? He's applying to the state. And who came up with the solutions on which this property was taken away? Well, it's the state's organs right now. Then what's this application for? This is usually a citizens' distraction. It's known that it's been over 60 years since then. A large number of people who have been taken away from the property have no more solutions, and perhaps there is no proper evidence that they have been seized from the property, which the property is about, but what is certain is that it already exists in the state archive. Because this isn't about property taken violently. Some here talked about communists breaking into houses and various organizations after 1945. Yes, they were. You also came in after 2000, but the communists, unlike you, made certain solutions, passed laws, so they subdued it under a certain form, while you must admit that you were doing it in a much smaller volume and with a much larger delay. Also, in this way, all these laws passed after 9 March 1945, on expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation, are declared illegal, that is, against the law and thus undermine legal certainty in this country. You can't just try these revolutionary methods of yours to erase everything that was before you. Some things were good, some things weren't. I certainly won't say that nationalisation is something we advocate and we would support; the SRS considers private property sacred, but we think that this law that you have proposed will certainly not do any good to the citizens of Serbia. We also believe that it cannot be determined in this way that what has already been taken away from them by the state must be re-enacted. Because if you say that someone has been wronged, if you want to correct that injustice, then why don't you say so, we'll investigate the state records, we'll find that it's been taken away from you. No, you just want the opposite. In this way, you want more people not to meet the obligation you impose on this law and not report that property, which is possible for a variety of reasons: whether because they will not have the opportunity to come up with appropriate solutions, whether they will not have financial opportunities to pay to get copies from land books, to copies of possible solutions on confiscation and so on. Instead of giving citizens some right, you, in this way and in this law, want to deny them the right, even if it is sometimes given to some future law as such to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14275	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, and I would like to ask my colleagues who answered for a word to check if anyone had forgotten their glasses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against this bill of application and confiscation. Our colleague Zoran Krasic made it clear in article 1 that all these legal proposals you proposed in the National Assembly... There is now no president of the assembly, who has repeatedly pointed out in his public address that this assembly has passed 80 laws last year. So, on this case, the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property can be seen as the nature of this bill. First, the law is imprecise, incomplete, and thus it can be said to be legally unfounded. If we're saying that we need to correct injustices with laws, then these legal proposals should be clear and accurate. The proposal for a law on the application and registration of seized property, which was submitted by the ruling coalition to the National Assembly, aims only to be another one in a series of laws and to be guided by how this National Assembly has passed laws in the interests of Serbian citizens. Of course, this National Assembly should pass clear and precise laws, so that they can be applied and that Serbian citizens benefit from them. If you continue this practice and keep calling for how you have made so many legal proposals and given them to the National Assembly and the National Assembly to adopt them... You will also adopt this bill on the application and registration of seized property, as well as all of the previous laws that we from the Serbian Radical Party have said were not good laws. We have submitted amendments, asked to be an equal partner here and to accept our amendments, because we believe that we are the strongest political party, which we have and what we have proven in the elections, the citizens of Serbia voted in favour of the SRS. That'll cost you the next election. What is the essence of this bill is that it will not regulate the application and registration process of the seized property. You say that the National Assembly passed over 80 laws last year, and the Slovenian Assembly has passed over 200 laws, if the figure means anything; it cannot mean unless the laws are precise, clear; if they are not precise and clearly understood, they cannot be on those grounds that will bring good to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14277	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14278	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has a defined attitude towards so-called historical laws. Because of the very delicate position of the state, at any time when such a law is passed, a number of issues are raised – from which the assets are returned, whether new injustices seem to be, whether otherwise, as a rule, painful, issues are opened. We have come forward and we will vote for this law. In this regard, we cannot accept this amendment. I want to say a few things about it. From a distance, which is now 60 years old, it's easy to bring courts about why certain assets were changing owners. It's of course, by definition, painful and unfair. Also, I just want to remind myself, because of the public and the citizens, 160,000 war orphans were in the SFRY after World War II. A completely traffic and economic infrastructure was destroyed, schools were destroyed, hospitals were bombed cities. I remind you that 50,000 people provided heating for Belgrade in 1946. So these laws were passed in that environment, which took away property from those who had nothing. The problem then arises if there is an injustice. I also want to say one thing that's very important here. I understand the former owners who want to, as soon as possible, come into possession of their property; it's human, it's correct. I don't understand why they're against the law. The state should have a mechanism, to record – this is a law on aspirants – all potential users of denationalised assets or these others from several forms that we are talking about here. I'm not sure any of these people out there who blew a whistle have the right to some property. There are desert procedures, there are very delicate and slow procedures that should be conducted to prove whether he is the rightful heir to some property. That's why I don't understand people who oppose the adoption of such a law, if there is a political will to pass a law on denationalisation. In that sense, this law is necessary and that is why we will vote for it. I also want to say here – the SPS has never promised, nor has it in its political programme, that it will pass a law on denationalisation, aware of the responsibility the property is concerned with and the value it is worth. I remind you that the acting power has passed the Law on the Return of the Earth, in part this thing is over. I also want to remind all of you, distinguished colleagues from other political parties, in your election programs and in your campaigns, I have recognized that you want to pass a law on denationalisation. Now you're on the move, we won't bother you, nor will we look at those laws with malice, or in any other way. But I hope you're aware of the responsibility you're entering; 50, 60 or 70 billion dollars is the potential value of the property that needs to be returned. I really don't understand, with all the respect for all the political aspects of what this is about, how it can be returned, but we won't be in the way to do it, we'll help to the extent possible, I just want for the sake of the public, because of the citizens of Serbia, because of us as serious political people, to say that this is a huge bite for a country that is in a state that is in a state that is today. I'm sorry I timed out, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14279	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14280	Dear fellow MPs, I understand that the legislator of this law has a certain obligation to voters, since promises have been made lightly in the pre-election campaign, and then, by not being cruelly involved in solving certain problems related to the desire to carry out denationalisation, he proposes a law on the application and recording of the seized property. As you can see, these citizens who demand denationalization today whistle and hold paroles in front of the National Assembly, dissatisfied with this, because they think you promised them much more and that that record already exists. We have not only in the campaign, but in all public debates or in any public appearance on this subject we have given clear signals to citizens that today, after everything that has happened and in this economic situation, we are promising something that we cannot fulfill. This, of course, did not come to the approval of those who feel that they were damaged. We do not dispute that they have been damaged and that they have been wronged enormously. Every day, we come to a Parliament club evidence of how someone acquired property, so he was taken away from property, so instead of buying 360 square meters in the middle of Belgrade, there are two one-bedroom apartments left, so at the end of 2000, let's say, the same ones who are now proposing this law on denationalisation, knowing of such a situation, such apartments enter into their housing fund and selling to a third party. So you promise one thing, and you do something else entirely. I can't call it anything but demagogy. And if we start from the fact that we're able to get back the old foreign savings by 2014, then we're really asking the question to which year we're going to return all that property that was actually taken away by injustice many years ago, so 60 years ago, on different grounds. In this explanation that you have given under this law, you are absolutely aware of the complexity of this problem from all the aspects that you state, the economic, social, political, and yet you approach something like this. It is true that the basic legal principle of a democratic society on the integrity of private property has been violated, but we have witnessed that in the last five years, through many laws that this National Assembly has passed, a little bit of nationalisation of social and state property is being carried out. There has been privatisation in the meantime, the immovable property has changed its owners on several occasions, and we really don't see a way for this injustice to be done at all in any way that it could possibly come out, because you don't say by this law how you're going to do it, eventually correct it. You claim that it is necessary for the process of compensation of former owners to be implemented for the process of stabilising and further developing the national economy, and we argue that if such a law is passed – and I think you already know how much funding is needed for this, you are only delaying this process because you are forced to at least show good faith to those who supported you in the elections because that denationalisation was promised to them – our national economy even more to ruin. If we have in mind how our country is held on war damage compensation and claims of war damage from the former republics of the SFRY and all that awaits us if such a policy continues on this matter, I think we will not experience bankruptcy but we will not have the basic elements of statehood. If that's our goal, then we can work so unseriously, but it's really surprising that in this difficult political and economic situation that we are currently in, we have found ourselves in the same way that, on a proposal from the Government, we are, on such an unserious proposal of the law, so much time devoted. The National Assembly and the MPs must, of course, take their stand on any proposal, but this shows the inconclusiveness of a government that is not ready to engage in solving any issues, yet it is distracting the National Assembly with something that is pure imagination.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14281	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14282	This is another amendment in the series of amendments that needs to show how pointless this law is. Article 2 refers, in practice, to the definition of assets. It is said that the property, within the meaning of this law, is considered to have the right of property in fixed and mobile matters, as well as other property rights. ′′ It is difficult for someone to understand the relationship between Article 1 and Article 2. Article 1 states that this law regulates the application and registration procedure. We are in the principle debate on the amendment to Article 1. The bill made it clear that the property had already been recorded. The titular, i.e. the holder of the right to use, manage and dispose of this property, is the state, or the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is exercising its rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. The right to use and manage in possible variants can carry out the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and other users, state bodies, public enterprises etc. How could someone record something now? Here, I'll give you an example from my family. One of my cousins was in 1946, maybe half of them didn't know what it meant, took away the dress and took away the watermelon, and he had the 16th part in that uniform and the 20th part in the waterway. Where's that recorded? Dres ended up in a peasant labor group and it rotted long ago, and that watermelon fell on its own 30 and a few years ago. How to record this dress – mobile and watery immovable property? It's a ridiculous law. Furthermore, I would like to read to you what is written in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, more precisely in the Protocol with the Convention; this is the first time regulated by this Protocol since 20 March 1952. Serbia and Montenegro became high-level foreign parties to this Convention only in 2003, but let me tell you what is prescribed, since the protocol is an integral part of the Convention. As regards the protection of ownership, it is said – every natural or legal person has the right to enjoy their ownership peacefully. No one shall be deprived of their ownership except in the public interest, and only subject to the conditions laid down by law and general principles of international law. Now, experts, pay attention to the position of the 2nd member who says – previous provisions, however, do not in any way reduce the right of the State to apply the laws it deems necessary to regulate the use of ownership in accordance with the general interest or to ensure the payment of taxes or other contributions or penalties. Where are you pushing Serbia? You're just fighting the people. The whole point of your law is to fight the people to keep your lightly made promise to pay something back. I'd just like to remind you of something you wrote in this bill of yours. Who is subject to the obligation or the right to report? I'm taking you back to Article 1. Proposal for a law in which it is said – this law regulates the procedure. When a law regulates a procedure, the procedure inevitably refers to the exercise of a right. We have no right here. We're setting up a procedure, and we don't know what the law looks like. What are you guys doing? You've missed the point. With regard to Article 3 and that amendment, I will explain to you the difference between legal followers, heirs and holders of things. Here you gave general definitions of property, so confusing. I ask you a question – why did you give the definition of property in a technical regulation that should enable recording? In this way you have proved that all our amendments are justified, that we have instructed you amendments not to accept this bill, because, essentially, you, by this law, as you call it – by technical regulation, prejudge material solutions. It can't be done with this law. So this law either withdraws or accepts these amendments, but this law has nothing to do with it. Besides, as far as I know, Minister Dinkic is not up to this law either. I don't know who's in the government for this law, except for who said it - we promised, so since we can't meet, let's offer some paper. We already have this situation with some bill proposals, so both the courts and these agencies are being held by the head because of unarranged laws and laws that cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14283	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great pity that he is not present today at this assembly and the government's authorised representative Mladjan Dinkic, because I would have many questions to ask him, and they are about to be bound by this law. Let me ask him why this law does not provide for the return of those art paintings that were in the NBJ before its arrival, after which they were not, and where they are; to ask if the citizens of Serbia would return those four banks, and of which at least two of them could, after all the loadings, be solvable and compete on the market with the National Savings and many banks, and I mean the "Belgrade Bank", Beobank, etc.; to ask him whether this law meant to bring back the four billion he found in Cyprus, as he said "Freedan's money", so that money ended up on the Virgin Islands. Gentlemen Members of the People, may I remind you today, again, that this is a law on recording, not a law on the return of property, on the recording that has been made at least three or four times, since when the property has been taken away to this day, has been carried out. There is a record of a complete confiscation of property, from local self-government to the Serbian Archives, and you can certainly find everything. What confused me in some way – why March 9, 1945? Listing the documents, I came up with information that on March 7th 1945, the law prohibits the return of exiled Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, that's why the ninth, not the seventh, not the sixth. So you're making it clear that you have no intention of returning all property, even when you're passing a law on the return of property. You have no intention of recording those Serbs and Montenegrins who lived in Kosovo and Metohija, so the ballistics expelled them from Kosovo and Metohija, and Tito forbade them to return. Therefore, this date – 9 March, at least as far as the SRS is concerned, is not at all controversial. Serbian Radical Party MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has asked for article 2 to be deleted. In the explanation of the Serbian government, why the amendment is not accepted is said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 2 of the proposed law does not prejudge anything, but only defines the concept of property within the meaning of this law." There is a definition of something to be recorded, and then on those four, five, or 15 records that already exist on that same property, this one will come as the sixteenth. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking why the government makes so many wanderings. My eyes were opened by a senior DSS official, Bakarec, when he said his idol was (and I suppose, if he is a high-ranking official, that he is an idol to those lower officials and all members of the DSS) Robin Hood. The differences and similarities between this government and Robin Hood, or Robin Hood, are the following. There are similarities: robbery is both. The differences are drastic: Robin Hood went into the woods, and when you go into the woods, we'll see. Robin Hood was a kind of opposition. If you'd read this Robin Hood, you'd realize that Robin Hood kidnapped the rich and brought back the poor, you'd kidnap the poor and bring back the rich. When are you going to stop?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14285	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14286	Maybe it's some idol Robin Hood, it's his personal right, but you're obviously idol Donald Duck.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14287	National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14288	This is a kind of insult to the MP. I may look like Robin Hood, but I certainly don't look like Pai Duck. By the time I got out, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Europeans, your head of Parliament is a little bit boasting about how they put diapers on him, unlike those. It's not an accident that he was wearing diapers, it's that they haven't taken them off yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14289	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. This amendment requires that Article 2 be deleted. Why? Because, as we have heard from Mr Krasic, this Article 2. The bill, like everyone else, is completely pointless, because this law establishes a procedure for the exercise of a right without being given at all what right it is. Is this actually predicting that the right that you give these laws to citizens will be the right to record and report property? Do you think that the injustice committed to the citizens by taking away the property will be corrected by writing down this property one more time? Because I remind you that this property may not be legitimate, but certainly in a legal way taken from these owners, in accordance with the law, that it was accompanied by appropriate documents, solutions were made on expropriation, nationalisation and the like. It's all got some kind of legal cover. In this way, the MP group, or a complete DOS (that I would not separate you, because you have shown enough times that there is no big difference between you) actually wants to achieve a certain effect in the eyes of citizens, who have already lied several times that you will return this property. You made those promises first in 2000. And we all remember very well that you convinced us that you had the laws ready. One of those laws written by your quasiexperts was also a law on denationalization. By then, in the first month of the work of the new federal parliament, you should have passed a law on denationalisation, so that in the last five years, as long as it had been since then, God damn it, the property was returned to the citizens. Instead, for the next three years, you have kept quiet about this subject, so that, after that, in 2003, you will again in the course of an election campaign, remember the injustice that was done 60 years ago and say – this time, if you vote, we will surely bring back the relevant law and property. But of course, as we warned, it happened exactly the opposite, it was two more years and you did nothing to bring this property back to the citizens of Serbia. I must say, in the case of this law, you can best see what kind of attitude you have towards the citizens of Serbia. democratic forces and what kind of Serbian radicals we have. More than ten years ago, when no one was allowed to say that it was against denationalisation, we of the SRS openly expressed our view, aware that this would cause us to lose perhaps not a small number of citizens' votes in Serbia, because a large number of citizens were damaged by laws on nationalisation, confiscation and others. At least we showed that even those things that are not easy to say we always have the courage to say and that we are not ready to lie to citizens, or even at the cost of losing a certain number of votes. That is why the SRS is today the strongest parliamentary party in Serbia, and it will certainly be after the next elections. I urge you to stop this farce and confess to the citizens that this law will not do them any good, that under this law property will not be returned and that injustices will not be corrected. The best thing to do is to withdraw this law from the process, while it is time, so that we can all deal with some other things together that are of much greater importance to the citizens of Serbia and move once again on those topics that are burning and that you all promised to solve immediately upon coming to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14291	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS, our parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment to Article 2. As you've seen, and sometimes you want to show it in a negative context, I think of you from the ruling majority, she's asking that Article 2 be deleted. This is not because it is our intention to drag this course of the session, because our intention was too great for us to talk about what is essentially a state and national issue, which is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, because we were down Saturday and saw that the people were in a desperate situation, that there is no help from the state out of nowhere. She wanted to tell you this, by erasing Article 2, it was all the way to the end that fellow Serbian radicals did, that it was pointless for this law to continue to be in the process. How come the ex-post mind of the minister who flew in instead of Mladjan Dinkic, Parivodić, that after two days praises the law he himself said, because he saw from the very law that it was in the most part pointless, he knows it himself and will have to explain it to himself and to others. Ask yourself a little over what is the actual state, not that you speak hypothetically of something – if it is and when it is, and I tell you it will not, because it will not be found on the agenda when Serbian radicals exercise power. Just as long as you plan to distract the people. It's not just a distraction, because you've also predicted budget funds, and that's the amount of three million dinars. Since it's impossible for a project like this to be implemented in the future, for all of these reasons that we presented during the debate in principle and in particular, didn't you have a smarter job and a better way to spend these three million dinars? You could have bought something for children in Kosovo and Metohija to help the poor and the most endangered, not to distract us. You can see that these, whose potentially electoral body you're counting on and who have trusted you since October 5th on several occasions, from the Private Property Protection League, as they are already called, are not satisfied with what you're offering them. So there is no promised reciprocity, and then give up one of these crazy projects that would have to, if implemented into action, and it is impossible to implement, to cost who knows how many future generations in Serbia. Now you come to the village of Priluže in Kosovo and Metohija, in central Kosovo, so you tell one of those children there preschool age or those who go to school and learn at a school without electricity, they don't have four months of electricity, they have some aggregates that aren't worth anything, that the state is going to commit itself, and therefore they are bound to do when they get to work, and that it's returning something of $60 billion -- don't really distract us with such nonsense and disabling this poor and poor people and us here, who are clearly and loudly telling you that this is total nonsense. The whole law is written not clumsyly but so it doesn't make any sense, starting with a deadline, starting with questions that are physical faces. Article 2 says: ′′The property, within the meaning of this law, is considered the right of property in fixed and mobile matters, as well as other property rights. ′′ What are these other property rights? Is that the right of the folksdojcher, as Chanak promised them, and this Separatist league and this group that's still hanging around Vojvodina to get their own houses and their own estates? Where, then, will the Serbs and generations who grew up here, teach school, produce children; those who stood to live in their country and accept the queen of Serbia when they were expelled from their hearths in the previous genocide that the Ustashas committed in World War II? Instead of taking care of what is state property and what should be sacred for everyone – and I will tell you only one of the many cases when it comes to the sale of state property, it is the assets of the Yugoslav Army that are systematically destroyed – you sit here and listen to some law, or poll that has nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you that because of your concern for the state property and for the future of this people, it is in a much more responsible way than you do for our parliamentary group, based on Article 223. Law on criminal proceedings, filed on 14 March this year criminal charges against Prvoslav Davinic, Minister of Defence of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, Dragan Paskas, Lieutenant General, Chief of Staff of the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, Ljubisav Todorovic, General Major, Chief of Staff of the General Staff of the Serbia-Montenegro-NNN Staff, Representative for Objects of Special Use in the Operational Administration of the Serbia-Montenegro Army and Commander of the Special Purpose Facility of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, because all of these suspected objects are invaluable (or any of you may, with co-operation with these foreign intelligence services and agents know... (President: colleagues, please pay attention on time. )......................................................................................................... the value of this asset) opened to the public. It is the Karas facility, which was made on 11 January 2005, with a special decision by the chief of staff, otherwise the state secret and its immeasurable value, open to the public. Instead of worrying about how some group of thieves, the Yugoslav Army and how billions of dollars or euros are poured into the pockets of individuals and sold out what is not only a state treasure and state property, but a pillar of defence of a state and people, you are distracting and beating up the whole of Serbia with this law. Unlike you, we have concrete activities, and that ends when it comes to the work of MPs and contact with the people. Yesterday, with a group of Serbian Radical Party MPs, I was in a completely abandoned Racan village of Djurdjevo, where I contacted the citizens. I'm obliged to pass on their appeal to you and to do something to make those in the spring sows have what they need, to have better conditions for life, to pay better for what they have to do with severe torment and bloody sweats, not to distract us with things like this that don't lead to anything and that are just buying time, but you have, believe me, only a little while longer until your final departure from power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14293	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14294	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law is a good one, and the amendment requesting his erasure is not good. I don't know why someone's working in advance on the spells if we're gonna keep what we promised and pay back. Gentlemen, don't be unfaithful, Tom. The government of Vojislav Kostunica is a serious government and we DSS MPs are serious people, we make a promise. There is no reason to frighten Serbian citizens that this will be a major imposition on someone's salaries, pensions or something else. That's why before the denationalization law we're passing a law on recording property, to see how much money it is, to see what time, and not to burden the budget and citizens, it can come back. I'm sure we'll do that. They weren't all rich people. Maybe that law, when taken away, had some purpose to give warriors who fought, to sort out some big differences, but the local powers passed those laws and according to their own means; many honest people were killed, with very little property, and it needs to be fixed as soon as possible. We're a serious party and we'll make it right, be safe. It's a shame to tell people some lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14295	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14296	Ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker was doing nothing but courting his own leader. Surely there are some that are damaged, but it's a very small number, in these revolutionary entanglements, normally there were these phenomena, but fortunately, in this case, it was probably very little. I want to draw attention, and that's already one number of my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party said: this 60 years back, it's more on the orders of your Western mentors, you have to sort out some tasks, after this feasibility study, which you've got as a passport that you'll never use; you have a task to do on their orders. This is clearly seen when we mention Kosovo and Metohija, where one-third of the assets before World War II were owned by the church. So you are clearly ordered not to touch in Kosovo and Metohija. You can come out now and say something on behalf of your leader, but there's nothing to answer. This is obvious to both you and the whole public in Serbia. Furthermore, when it comes to the folks, where you come from, from Vojvodina. You know how many folks had property in Vojvodina; now it's going to be able to return to them, and Kosovo and Metohija shouldn't be touched. That's what I want to ask you and your government - so the same arches aren't for each other? Furthermore, we had many examples before World War II, and we heard of that from our old people, that many of the illegal abductions had acquired property. As if, if I were to compare now, in this time of the present, in a more perfident way, let the normal future government come and take away half of the property from the Karic brothers, and then let the next government bring it back, would that be right? I only wanted to make one comparison. Furthermore, I mean that, I think we're too bored with our people and we have a very sick nation. First we burdened her with sanctions, inflation, there was bombing, arrest, privatisation, restructuring, and now denationalisation. Gentlemen, our people can't handle it psychologically. Give some softer laws, which will give some hope to the people for the future, and not to bother them in this way, with laws like this, with such proposals, where they can no longer mentally, morally, or materially endure it all. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14297	Thank you. Replica, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14298	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no reason to be courteous. The people told the truth in September at the 2000 elections; if Vojislav Kostunica had not led the opposition, it would never have been won in Serbia. Therefore, I have no reason to be courteous. I wouldn't even want to keep the dialogue deaf, I'd say, Lord, help them, they don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14299	Thank you. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14300	It is true, gentlemen, that in 2000, the opposition won exactly thanks to Vojislav Kostunica. That's why you need to explain why you lied to the people when you signed a contract with the people and promised to pass a law of denationalization within a month. You lied. At the time, Vojislav Kostunica was the most popular politician in Serbia, and the Democratic Party of Serbia was the most popular party. In 2003, you once again promised to pass a law on denationalization, you lied twice. After that lie, Vojislav Kostunica is no longer the most popular, and the Democratic Party of Serbia has 10-12% of voters in Serbia. In 2005, you lied to the people for the third time. You're not passing a law of denationalization again. This is the property recording law, which has long been recorded. So think about how you'll go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14301	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14302	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the Serbian Radical Party, or counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic, has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and has asked that Article 2 be deleted. Of course, Serbian Radical Party MPs for this speaker speak with arguments. You liked it from the ruling coalition or not, that's right. You are proposing here legal proposals that are not accurate, which will not do Serbia's citizens any good, and of course, Serbian citizens want to live better. If you have made a coalition, today you do not enjoy more than 20% of the votes, all those parties that belong to the ruling coalition, what are you talking about in this pay phone? You can celebrate your political leaders as much as you want, we're waiting and we're very happy with your actions here and you're saying that you don't know what you've done and we expect you to accept this political rating as soon as possible, so you can increase it with a bill like this. This bill does not mean anything new, only one number among those numbers you mentioned, as well as the president of the Assembly, who boasted that you brought in over 80 laws last year, and your laws are inaccurate. After all, this law will not do Serbia's citizens any good either. This is your empty story. You're trying to return the political rating, but you're already Serbia's political past and we'll see and look forward to the next elections in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14303	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the predecessor of the DSS, a fellow MP who spoke of the justification for the adoption of this law, made several mistakes mentioning that local powers had passed laws. They couldn't pass the laws, they couldn't pass the laws, they could only apply the laws. Now, as they applied them, they applied them in various ways. And as for the magic, whether it returns or does not return around the estimate of the property, as much as it is worth, there is no return. It is known that the value of the assets seized is over $60 billion. The claim that it will put very little burden on taxpayers or not, or this state, absolutely incorrect because the state has no money. The state only has taxpayers' money. So the more tax he collects from his citizens, from his subjects, the more money he has. The property he owns has been acquired for years, decades by his citizens. If she returns, she can only return on the basis of money she takes through taxes and contributions from her citizens. Returns are mainly done in two ways: naturally, in that original form as taken, or recompensated, means through securities of value. This means that the state must print bonds, long-term bonds, securities of value to be paid back in cash, through securities of value when they arrive for payment, to the people who have been taken away from the property. Now, how are they gonna pay these people off? Well, by increasing tax rates, burdening citizens with additional taxes to settle those obligations. There's no other money. The state doesn't have its own money, but it comes to money through the budget, and the budget is charged with taxes and contributions. There's no money from the tree, so it's talking about not burdening the citizens, or that they're going to put a little weight on it, not drinking water. Secondly, in his opening statement, the minister discussed some consolidation of property rights. He used that very term – consolidation of property rights. What does that mean, I don't know. What does that mean – consolidation of property rights? Acts of agrarian reform, nationalisation, expropriation are in principle revolutionary acts and they rootly penetrate property relations and change ownership structure. Denationalisation is about a counter-revolution in property-legal relations. Every revolution is, by nature, unfair and wrong, because it is making sudden changes. Since this is about property-legal relations, it means that he is making sudden and radical changes in the structure and ownership of property-legal relations. What does counter-revolution or denationalization mean? Well, another kind of injustice. Again, someone else has to pay for the fact that 60 years ago, the state did some injustice to a certain category of people. Now it takes that injustice to correct citizens, taxpayers who have absolutely nothing to do with it, nor were they born then, or the vast majority of Serbian citizens were even born when the injustice was done. So one injustice draws another injustice. Why tie to the date of March 9th? Let's correct the injustice that was done during the Turks. The Tsar Turks have been taken away from the country since 1833; Hatisherif is still allowed to take away their land, they have been paid some ridiculous compensation and they have been emigrated to Turkey. We have not yet been an independent state of Serbia, but we have had certain autonomous rights, so Hatisherif is allowed to buy the country from the Tsar Turks, same at some prices that were above the real values, and they are literally expelled to Turkey. Let's go back to 1833 and make them look bad too. What about those to whom King Alexander took two million acres of land? Two million acres of land is King Alexander, the uniter, took away, and he took away a good portion of it from the church. The church is trying to get them back. I don't know why. Well, more damage was done to them by Alexander Karadjordjevic, than by Tito. Tito took less of their land than Alexander Karadjevic took from them. Tito took after World War II, agrarian reform, 1,566,000 hectares of land. Aleksandar Karadjordjevic - two million. Yes, that's the exact data, 600,000 agrarian stakeholders shared those two million acres of land. The agrarian reform lasted ten years, and Tito carried out agrarian reform in three years. He took 1,566,000 hectares of the country through agrarian reform and settled the country, and there were about 300,000 agrarian stakeholders. It's based on agrarian reform. There were more procedures for expropriation and confiscation, but it's still a story for itself that expropriation was made, according to the law of 1953, where agricultural land went to the General Property Fund. Second, the confiscation of property by compulsory ransom was carried out, according to regulations from 1945 to 1950, where the ransom was required. So after that, according to the criminal provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Speculation and Economic Sobotage, they were pronounced, in addition to prison sentences, as collateral measures and penalties for confiscation of property. But that's a different story. I just want to say that this law is full of gaps and holes and that the minister in his opening statement, when he explained the bill himself, used terms that he didn't understand until the end, such as: consolidation of property rights, revolutionary democracy or the reconciliation process between the state and citizens. How are we supposed to settle down, I don't know. I don't know who he was fighting with or who he should be fighting with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14305	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it's a pity that the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta is absent, because it seems to me that she would best defend this amendment, however, I will try to help you understand, and I mean the ruling coalition, how immaterial this law is, so that we can decide together at the end of the debate on amendments that this law should be withdrawn, because there will be no benefit from it, even if you adopt it, there will be no. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, and it reads - the SRS consistently represents the view that it is against denationalisation. The Republic Property Directorate of Serbia has a clearly prescribed jurisdiction of the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. When we formed the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, we made it clear by law what it should do, as an auxiliary body of the government. This law extends the jurisdiction and authority of the Property Directorate. We're bringing her to the floor level. We bring it to the level of other institutions that otherwise exist in this country, and it is not known that the Government has imagined that its authority – the Directorate is keeping records of the persons and property of any future owners, including the property of the natural persons, who are now the owners of that same property. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted by the Government – the amendment is not accepted because Article 3 of the proposed law does not prejudge any question relating to denationalisation, but in paragraph 1 of this Article states who have the right to apply under this proposal for a law, which does not mean that a circle of persons who will have the right to return of the seized property is exhausted, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that in the debate in principle and in the debate on details, at least in these three amendments we have made it clear to you and the Serbian public how absolutely unnecessary this law is. When Mr. Aleksandar Vukic came out this morning and told you that now it was a burning issue for Serbia, the Kosovo issue, you were laughing here, individual. We are passing laws like this as Kosovo and Metohija slowly slip into our independence. It is now clear by Articles 2 and 3 of this Article why it is March 9th, why not March 7th and why not further.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14307	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14308	Before I explain this amendment to Article 3. I only have to tell the experts - in this Commission statement, what you celebrated a few days ago, there is no return of property, so it is not treated, and these parliamentary groups, which are in the power of this law, believe that there are significant shortcomings, such as partiality, inadequate solutions, inability to become obsolete, inadequate deadlines, etc. What Rules Article 3. Proposal for a law – who can file an application. The application is filed by a natural person whose property has been seized and he is called an earlier owner, then his successors, or legal followers. I have to tell you that Article 3 relative to Article 1 and the idea you have, that in a year you pass this law that will regulate and right, doesn't drink water, this doesn't communicate with one another. What's this about? Since 1945, if some property has been seized, it has been seized in accordance with some regulations. The regulations were probably not fair, but the act of confiscation was carried out by an individual legal act. As a rule, these were the authorities of the administration – the meetings or municipal committees or some commissions, etc., depending on the type of law and type of law and type of good, moving and immovable things and whether it was a sanction. These individual legal acts are in legal traffic. They commit, they act on everyone. These individual legal acts have not been questioned so far. So they were neither abolished, they were not annulled, nor was it decided in terms of restitution by some other individual legal act. I could understand what you insist on when it comes to the former owner; he could be a party, but what do you think of the heir? The heir inherited what was the property of the leaver at the moment of death. This isn't about later found property. This isn't property that is subsequently established, later found, we have a legal perfect state, we have a decision that works and we have some 60-year deadline that's gone. See for yourself, this is an impossible job you've been taking on. In doing so, I must tell you that former stock companies also lost property under those regulations. Who are their legal followers? You have a record of it and the government has power, has power, as a nominal holder of the right to dispose, to do this job and to return the property if it is estimated that the property should be returned. But, no, you want to supposedly show that you're keeping one of your promises. Your promise has no cover in the Constitution, not in any law, not in international acts. There is only political will, but your political will is contrary to the principles of legality and legal certainty. You're trying now... I do not particularly comment on this position 2, where the mediator of the whole process is the organisation which is the power of power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What are you doing? The Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia is an exposition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does some work on behalf of the government, primarily management and use of property. If the government didn't have a directorate, she'd be doing those jobs. You are now empowering a representative in property matters raising the government to the level of a state body that should be neutral and objective under this law in relation to those situations where conflict between multiple persons can occur. This is a completely dead end job you've been taking on. So, no individual decision has been questioned, no new individual decision has been made, there is no possibility of making a new individual decision, there is no law for a single decision, and you regulate some procedure to report something that has already been reported, which is already recorded, there is the wrong job you're dealing with. You don't want to get out of this situation. One more sentence. In this way you give a signal to the heirs (second, third, fourth generation) that in land books or cataster they can, on the basis of some future law, only make a correction that on behalf of the user Janko Jankovic stands the owner Janko Jankovic, although the immobility in the state is a third party, so that he can get credit based on allegedly mortgages, to finish the job, to have something he didn't inherit at the moment of the leaver's death, because he wasn't even property. You deny all legal institutes that exist in a modern civilised state. I just read to you what's in the protocol with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Get out of this business. Do you think that the previous government was so naive that it organised so many commissions that worked on the draft law with material provisions on the rights of the person on the restitution, it gave up the restitution. Now you're very smart, so you're going through something, and you don't know what's going on in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14309	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate shows that it is not enough to have a good will for the citizens. About 15 years of denationalisation of property in the Republic of Serbia has been mentioned and I was convinced that it is very easy to do – go back to previous owners and everything is fine. I think whoever here is now saying that this is a misdemeanor, a way, a process to start denationalization, has no good intentions, for the simple reason that some MP groups here and the parties have had the opportunity to do something about it for almost 10 years. If nothing else, put aside the nationalisation actions that were carried out after World War II. What kind of situation would we be in? We'd be in a situation where 90% or more of the owners would be nonexistent and there would be a series of legal procedures, family conflicts and that would be determined now who these heirs really are, because the great discontinuity in time, 60 years has passed. This proposal is some natural solution to how to move into the process, how to denationalize in a future period, and that there is a system, that there is order. The order shall be taken first to determine what it is, what property it is and who appears as a possible search engine, i.e. the successor of that property. This avoids possible disputes about returning to an unlived industrialist or returning an apartment or land to someone without knowing who would appear. These are arguments, legal proceedings, courts buried and expenses without any limits. So it's very simple. This isn't a law on the return of property, so that people don't get confused. This is the law of recording, of reporting property. Whether it will return, whether or not it will be compensated depends on whether that property exists at all, what about the property. It used to be a field, and now it's a residential building; it used to be a factory, it doesn't exist anymore. Therefore, property will be recorded, and then it will be determined whether the heirs, who here will be legitimately legitimate heirs or owners, God forbid there are even living ones, will get their property back, or will that property be compensated. Who's going to keep records of it, but an official public and state institution? What do you think, gentlemen of the radicals, that someone suggested establishing a special agency for that? Then we'll have the kind of discussion we'll have here. No, we have a Republic Property Directorate to keep track of. Nothing more natural. I'm sure we understand each other. The mention of the Serbian Orthodox Church is absolutely groundless, as the proposal says special legislation will regulate the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Therefore, this institution really needs to be excluded and not involved in this debate. So, once again, let's not mislead the citizens: this is not a law on the return of property, but a law that precedes such a law, which should introduce order, to see which property it is, and who are now those people who think they should be returned to them. In order for that to happen, they have to legislate. For me who am not a lawyer, it's simple. Gentlemen of the law, please don't complicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14311	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14312	I'm referring to article 100. I think my predecessor slipped when he said there was a bad intention in the people who submitted the amendments. It's not a bad idea. Simply, if we are doing something and it is necessary to correct it, let no injustice be caused by a new injustice. But I'm not sure you're in the position of the government and the ruling coalition. Exactly what we have submitted these amendments is contained in the fact that material solutions are prejudged by one technical regulation. There is no more nonsense than when it comes out and says what the government has written in its report – it needs to be recorded first. What's to record? Property? Property data exists. It is located in land books, catasters, archives and the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. In 1995, the deadline was several times extended, all state property users were obliged to report state property, and even the specific forms are listed, so that the origins are visible in these forms, etc. So, the records already exist. I agree with you that there may not be a record of a person who would have any right, but if that's a question then you need a material regulation, not a technical regulation. You have denied the bill yourself. That's what this is about. It's not our bad intention to tell you that I can't by one law, as a general act, put themselves outside the scope of an individual decision. There were court decisions, you should know that. They can't be put out of force, because if by one law it could be purified, then I must warn you that injustices have been done to the life and part of the people. Some of them lost their lives, and some of them supported the prison. Has anyone passed a law that rehabilitates such faces? It's not the law. Is it possible for more attention to be paid to property than to be a person? So we're in the field of historical regulations and historical laws. If you think this is supposed to be a historical regulation and a historical law, which is now passed and once true, you're wrong. You have the law on extraprofit tax – it's the same as the historical regulation, to correct some injustice. He went down, sank in front of the SRJ Constitutional Court, and this Vučetic is not being advertised yet, he should answer at any moment and say it is contrary to modern legal principles. Do you want one of those regulations to push us through our technical records? Here's the problem with what to record. Is it possible to pass a law of procedure without knowing what is the right? That's impossible. If you want to record someone first, you have to decide if they're right. How will you record Peter Petrovic when he brings in some papers? Do you have any regulations here why a request for registration is denied? You don't, you're already handing over some sublegal acts to the logic of things. Secondly, what do you say - the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia; so she is a mediator of the government; she is not a state body, not an authority of the administration. She is an administrative organisation that performs professional tasks for the government that exercise property rights. Now the government on behalf of the state should return, register, and with it the citizens should exercise the right to register. Where will he exercise his right to vomit? Who will bring the solution to vomiting? Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia? She doesn't have those powers now. You skipped the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14313	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14314	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 131 MPs attend. I ask the MPs to insert their MP cards and determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you at first about the way I'm going to run this session. So, it's going to work today, Wednesday and Thursday. Because next week is Wednesday's 27th day, it will work Monday and Tuesday, and then, due to the first and Easter holidays, it will not work until May 10th. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone report for this amendment? Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me tell you, Mr. President, you haven't been in most of the afternoon session, and we've made a number of arguments according to the amendments tabled. That's exactly the way it is for a member of the 3rd to be submitted by a colleague of the Verica Radeta, who is concerned with the way in which the seized property is reported. According to the provisions of this law, the application referred to in Article 1 shall be submitted to the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which, in two copies, directly or by post, is recommended in the prescribed form, etc. You had another adventure project that, in addition to all your promises in the election campaign, made sense because of the way the elections were organised, which is to give our citizens living in the diaspora the opportunity to vote. You saw how you concluded it in a hurry and how you staged the election, that there was no purpose. Even then the president of the DSS parliamentary group said – you know, in the future we can think about this kind of voting, to vote online. Very funny and advanced. That reminds me of this post-mail application. I will return to that story in the morning, that is, our absolute claim that the state authorities in the units of local self-government where your coalitions exercise power, as well as the Republic, with this and the previous government, are unable to carry out obligations under other laws, and it is a law that was passed since 1997, on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land that has passed into social property under the agricultural land fund and confiscation due to the unexecutive obligations arising from the compulsory purchase of agricultural products. This morning I mentioned to you the move of Lake Gružan and that the state to this day, i.e. JP ′′water and sewerage′′ from Kragujevac did not own, and these are only some of the owners of the seized property, paid compensation for their seized land. I told you that it was the Mijatovic family Radojka and Mijatović Dragana from the village of Kusovac, that they were taken from four hectares that were estimated at 40,710 dinars in 1997, and that the JP ′′water and sewerage′′ from Kragujevac, which is now under the authority of local city authorities (at whose head is in Kragujevac Veroljub Stevanović, in a coalition made by DSS and supported by the SPS), offered to pay them that amount within ten years in three months of the war, with interest which they say they do not know how to calculate. Dinkic went to Washington and they don't know how to charge people interest. So it's four acres of land, 40,710 dinars estimated in 1997. ′′The water and sewerage′′ from Kragujevac, whose director is Obren Cetkovic, a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which supports Veroljub Stevanovic and his coalition, offers these people the same amount, and the interest will see how he will account for them. He says he doesn't have a model for calculating interest, although it's absolutely clear and it's known that the interest rate is calculated on unsettled debts. What I have here is indeed an unprecedented scandal so far, with which I am meeting in my fourteen-year political practice, and it concerns the demands of the municipal DSS from Kragujevac, and it is related to the ′′water and sewerage′′. This same director who owes these people 40,710 dinars, at the request of the municipal board of DSS from Kragujevac, wrote off the debt, this solution, or decision, of 178,289,89 dinars. He, as a coalition partner of Stevanovic and DSS, said in his explanation: "The DSS, the municipal board in Kragujevac, has addressed the Public Enterprise ′′Vodovod and the sewerage′′ with a request that, in order to regulate the mutual obligations, the company write off the said debt on the phone service account by the end of 2004, amounting to 178,289,89 dinars." Imagine what the numbers were, so tempting, that they could be called for this amount. "By considering the forward request," the director said, "I have assessed that it is the same, in accordance with the agreed conditions on how to reconcile the commitments made," so these conditions are only known to them, "respecting the fact that the party acts in rather difficult financial conditions". The DSS operates in Kragujevac in a very difficult financial condition, in a city where 40,000 people do not work and there is no work, so "in order to achieve a comprehensive solution of the same, I decided as in dissident. V.D. Director Cetković Obren" etc. You now explain to me, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, how it is possible that, through the advocacy of one such law and the registration and registration of property that may be sought by someone, you can talk about some justice and correcting something that is manifestly historical injustice, when one of the parties with one municipal committee in Serbia is able to demand from one public enterprise in this way the write-off of debts, and on the other hand, the Mijatovic family from Kusovac alarms MPs because they are not paid off until today for four hectares of property taken away from them. How much morals, how much legalism and how much concern for the people will judge the citizens of Serbia from this story. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14316	Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14317	Since Miss Jovanovic mentioned both the SPS and our organisation in Kragujevac, I would indeed ask both the Radicals and all other political parties that when they want to calculate among themselves, they do little to bypass the SPS. We have no reason to be a constituency monk on either side. But radicals need to understand, based on the coalitions that exist in Serbia -- no matter how many votes you have, how many MPs you have, if you are not in good relations with the SPS, you cannot rule. Do not destroy relations with those who are the only ones in Serbia who want to make a coalition with you. Don't work against yourself. If you think the SPS is your biggest political opponent, I think you're on the wrong track. As far as we're concerned, the SPS has its own policy, nothing to do with the SRS. We used to have and we're not ashamed of it, but that's why we'll never attack on someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14318	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14319	First, I'm going to use the right to replicate, and maybe even by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14320	According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14321	Replication to Ms. Jovanovic's presentation. The Democratic Party of Serbia and the Kragujevac municipal board are mentioned, since I...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14322	It's not a dispute, just so we know on what basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14323	First, if, for the sake of truth, we want to give facts for this speaker, the facts seem quite different. The DSS and its municipal board in Kragujevac are the only ones in the rooms of ′′Vodova′′, which have been for the past three or four years, and during the time when the opposition party was the Democratic Party of Serbia asked to pay the lease in the premises in which it is located. They spoke to local authorities several times, and we have written demands about it. That's where we were disabled. We are the only party that has achieved alignment in relation to what we have owed, and we have not been able to achieve as our right. As for phone bills, the DSS regularly pays its phone bills. The account that has arrived from ′′Vodova′′ is a summary account for all the phones that are located in the′′ Vodavodâ, not for what the Democratic Party of Serbia has spent. We did not recognise this account in this settlement as an account made by the Democratic Party of Serbia, and therefore we addressed the Governing Board of ′′Vododa; that it, taking into account this fact, reacts in this way. Otherwise, we signed a debt reprogramme that we had absolutely right to, and we are one of the few parties that have reacted in this way before and now. We've really done all our duties regularly and I don't see at all any connection that you're trying to make here between the existing law and the phone bills that the board has written off. These are the summation accounts that were held by the ′′water. If you want, in the end, the Democratic Party of Serbia has three telephone lines, two of which are run in its name. Absolutely not what Miss Jovanovic brought out. The fact that the DSS is working with its coalition partners is something quite natural. Since the head of the house is a representative of the SPS, the director is from the SPS, it is normal to contact the Management Board with one request. For that explanation you've read, you'll have to ask the one who gave the explanation. I'm telling you what's true and what's the point. So, I don't think there's any vague stuff here. Things are clear, that they just bother how clear they are. Demagogy in that part, which at this point is trying to cloud some things, is not going to get anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14324	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14325	Mr. Angelkovic, I am reporting first of all for your head of Parliament, Mr. Ivica Dacic. In an informal conversation, I said, but now the Serbian public will hear it, that some former members of the SPS from the village of Djurdjeva in the municipality of Rač, which we visited last night, and where the very successful tribune had the Serbian Radical Party and our three MPs, told him that they were no longer part of what was once the Socialist Party of Serbia or what was called, so that you could not only assume that any coalition partner would be so serious and so decadent, but you must look at what you are doing today and imagine that a Serbian general in pajamas was taken away, with the glasses left in the hospital on the nightstand. You're supposed to be the only condition to support this incompetent government had exactly that. As for what Mr. Davidovic said, it is quite clear from your contradictory replication, which really no one in this room could understand, let alone the impoverished Kragujevac public, that there is no reprogramme if there is no debt. In fact, you'll have to explain yourself to this gentleman who signed himself and who stated that the amount of 178,289,89 dinars is something that he wrote off to you, and it clearly states in his explanation. I was just reading how it was written and referring to the DSS, the Kragujevac municipal board. When it is converted into these hectares as much as ′′water and sewerage′′ owes only one family from the village of Kusovac, it is 18 hectares, Mr. Davidovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14326	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, replica. Otherwise, if everyone in the Alliance of Communists of Serbia were in the SPS, there would be no opposition here. That's why there's got to be some opposition. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14327	All right, everybody was, we're all a little socialist or a little socialist. So everybody knows that, because almost everyone's been in the coalition with us for the last 15 years. In any case, I don't think the SPS has any reason to be ashamed of it as others, as you can see, for example, from some SRS exposures, where Toma Nikolic says their historic mistake was supporting the SPS. You know how, if that's a historic mistake, then break up the coalition with the SPS in all the municipalities where you're in power. In Zemun you rule thanks to the SPS; in Surcin thanks to the SPS. Why? Break up the coalition. You're not going with the SPS? You think we're the worst? You think we're worse than these others? All right, that's your political platform. Don't keep coming out of this booth so that you care more about us than you do about us, that you care more about our members than you do about us. The secretary of the municipal board of the Serbian Radical Party from Cačka, who left your party when you voted in favour of the Chetniks' law, welcomed you as well. So what, do we have to say it now, should we brag about it? Unfortunately, we're being abandoned by members. I don't understand the SRS, why in these conversations, when we talk about other issues, the SPS puts it on the agenda. All right, but I didn't start first, as far as we're concerned, Natasa Jovanovic spoke about the chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia's City Committee in Kragujevac, and it is my duty, as chairman of the General Committee, to stand up for him. Don't ask me to support now what you're saying against him. As far as we're concerned, the Serbian Radical Party is the party we were with in the coalition. Also, the Socialist Party of Serbia now has other coalition partners, but does not mean that we should be such political enemies to work against each other now. As far as we're concerned, we're proud to look at the time we worked together and I don't understand why you're ashamed of it. No one can destroy the Socialist Party of Serbia, some have tried to take it, some have tried to destroy it, and you have seen how they all ended. As far as we're concerned, it doesn't matter, the Socialist Party of Serbia is a party that has its own political identity and I want to say, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, that we are not a coalition with the Serbian Radical Party, we have no obligation to each other and don't constantly complain about us about our behaviour. We have coalition arrangements at the local level. If that bothers you, then get out of it. In Kikinda, you rule thanks to... I've seen Živodarka Dacin, so I'm saying it now; in Novi Sad you rule thanks to the Socialist Party of Serbia. Well, at least show a little respect for all that. I'm not saying you should love us, but you have to respect us for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14328	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14329	According to Article 100, also, since things have been said about the Democratic Party of Serbia that are not correct, and among other things, I am a little sickened to hear this about the impoverished people and the citizens of Kragujevac from people who were in power when that people were poor and when the economy was ruined. Ms. Jovanovic, you will have to explain to the president of your parliamentary group what I am about to tell you, because he was the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Zastava from Kragujevac when she was poored, destroyed that same firm and when she was in charge, and this government, with President Kostunica headed, with an MP from Kragujevac, with a business minister, Mr. Bubal, released the flag from Kragujevac 460 million dollars of debt that was made in your time this year. So, $460 million is money for Mercedes, let alone the Kragujevac flag. This same government will make a deal with the Fiat, where it will be made "full" in the flag, and when you were the government nothing was done. The workers will be better off as long as they have this government. In a year, she's done more than she's done in three years and faster, even though we're turtles coming to Europe. I'll tell you one more thing: don't, as Mr Dacic told you, throw a lot of trees and stones at the Democratic Party of Serbia, when we are, in addition to the SPS, the only party that is working with you in many municipalities in Serbia. You wouldn't be the authority in Novi Sad and Maja Gojkovic would be much harder if it weren't for us. You wouldn't be in power in another twenty municipalities if it weren't for the Democratic Party of Serbia. If we're ready to talk to you, respect it, otherwise you'll never be a government anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14330	Mr. Karaicic, what did you answer for? The replica of Natasa Jovanovic at the exhibition of Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14331	Here, in the manner of nervous politicians and those who lose voter confidence, as all these researches tell you, which certainly does not order the Serbian Radical Party, speak in arguments and language, but with obvious anxiety. An MP from one parliamentary group shouted, for no reason, about some cities and municipalities that had nothing to do with Kragujevac and what I was talking about, because in Kragujevac, the Serbian Radical Party is not with either of the others in power. For what happened there, who did it, who made the problem, who spent this kind of money, you'll have to go to a city where you're working together to settle the accounts. As for the replacement of characters and roles, I only know one MP named Mikavica, and I don't see that he has a double. This wasn't his double just now. When it comes to potential roles in Novi Sad and a decision that is safe and consciously made should be discussed about the character and work of the MP Mikavica. As for the flag and your obvious nervousness and the untrueness that you've brought out, Mr. Shormaz, you're saying a lot in your mind, casually and as if you've skipped a period of your life or a period that happened in Serbia. The period you're talking about, and we were much less in power than you are now and with that previous DOS furniture, is one of the most difficult periods for the Serbian people and for the people of Kragujevac. Sixteen times (I wait, Mr. Chairman, that some of these MPs who are probably funny) members of the Western NATO Pact military alliance were throwing missiles at the flags drive. It was completely collapsed and almost leveled with the ground, the moss of its plants. You didn't just have an MP from Kragujevac at the time, but you didn't even have a municipal board in our city. As MPs, together with the workers of Kragujevac and the people who were there, we did everything, just like the then vice-president of the Serbian government and the chairman of the Committee on Economy and Finance, Prof. Vojislav Seselj and the Deputy Prime Minister, from Kragujevac, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, to return to the original state, to raise the production hall again. Of course, we didn't do it alone, but it was the merit and unity of coalition partners, but above all, those workers, who were left without a job in 2001, and they were 15,000 and today, lurking around the city, and they don't know what to do. A plant from the ashes was erected in the period following the vicious aggressive attack, including the Zastava car factory, in January 2000. Both workers and executives in the flag societies know the selfless contribution of Tomislav Nikolic, who, unlike all of you, has never taken a single dinar of compensation, because he is a moral and honorable man. That is why he is today Serbia's most popular politician. That is why he will be prime minister of the future government and that is why the Serbian Radical Party will come to power. (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic. ) As for the flag group and its production after NATO aggression, I did not see you as such heroes to come and remove that shot and lift the factory halls. In the first quarter of 2000, 1,987 units of "South" car were produced. That's my answer to the replica. (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic. I'm done. Wait a minute, because the works of your reign and that period, Mr. Angelkovic... (Chairman: Joint. Together, that's what I said. Let me talk about the honorable role and what Mr Tomislav Nikolic did, as a capable vice president of the government. As for this period and that quarter, therefore, not only has it been produced, with superhuman efforts, much more than the previous government has done in three years, but it has been given the opportunity for citizens to trust again what is called value, hard work and fair address to those who are on the verge of existence. We've never courted the citizens of Kragujevac by offering them empty promises, ever. This was demonstrated by his work and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as a member, not as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Zastava Group, by refusing to accept a single dinar during the period when workers were hard to live. He helped the city as none of the politicians in Kragujevac during the postwar period... (President: Miss Jovanovic, can we bring the end? )......................................................................................................... December 22nd, the Serbian Trade Company, the Star Meat Industry, Philip Kljajic. See how today, when you exercise power, and you took it in continuity from DOS, Kragujevac looks. Because of that, and first of all because of the fact that we never wanted to... (President: Miss Jovanovic, can we bring the end, it's six minutes. )......................................................................................................... By replacing thesis, here I am, we get the trust of the people, and as nervous as you are, be sure that Kragujevac and the whole of Serbia will vote for both Tomislav Nikolic and the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14332	Replica? First, did Mr. Mircic come forward, according to the Rules of Procedure, or is it a replica? Article 100. Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14333	Mr. Chairman, I've contacted the Rules of Procedure earlier, because I think this speaker should be the truth. First of all, fellow Shormaz, I have no doubt that the flag will produce "full," but it has long gone to new units of measures. Now the measures are in place. You've been cast out as a measure of the strength of a car. Second, where do you gentlemen keep the SRS in power? Where? You're holding an SRS in Novi Sad? You're taking part with us in power? Where do you socialists keep the SRS? Where? Well, you're involved in that government, too. To mention only one piece of information from counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, you immediately began to make a political promotion here. Just you easy, I've got patience for you. [[Sagar.]] I've watched you all for a long time in this House. I look at you even when you're an opposition and you're power. Take it easy. [[Sagar.]] And I know individually what you did and how you did. Instead of discussing whether or not it's true, you're going into political debate immediately. If you do not cooperate with the Serbian Radical Party, you are wide open the door, please, gentlemen, work with Nenad Canka in Vojvodina, but in public. To know what and how you think of the Vojvodina, that we are no longer hiding. [[Sagar.]] Don't think any of the Serbian radicals will run to pull your sleeve. We won't. You do not cooperate with a political party called the SRS, but you must respect the will of citizens in certain local areas. Neither do we cooperate with the SPS in this issue nor with such leadership, but we respect the will of citizens of every local self-government. [[Applause]] So is the Democratic Party of Serbia, but we clearly say who we will not. Say so, and don't let the phone booth know which time you're blackmailing us Serbian radicals. Well, you can't blackmail more and more citizens every day. You will see in the early parliamentary elections – you will not be in the situation of speaking any sentence in terms of blackmail, because we will get an absolute majority and we will rule for ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14334	Replica, Goran Davidovic. Otherwise, the will of the citizens is, of course, that the SRS is working with the Socialist Party of Serbia, as it is with such leadership... (Glass: Who's asking you that? )......................................................................................................... as is the will of citizens to co-operate with other political parties as they are. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14335	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. First of all, the DSS has the least reason to be nervous, at least as far as what you've been up against today, especially about Kragujevec. I'll give you a list of the reasons why. Within a year, the Republic government, headed by Mr. Kostunica, has done more for Kragujevac than this previous government and previous government. The Kragujevac has been spread on many grounds. The key centres have moved out of Kragujevac, lost the essential status of the city. What is the result of this government's work in the past year can be numbered and can be discussed with facts and arguments. First, KBC grew up and became a clinical center. Then, the Telecommunications Center was returned to Kragujevac, although before that... (President: Mr. Davidovic, do you replicate about this or... )......................................................................................................... The power center is returning to... (President: Don't, it's not on the Kragujevac agenda, yet some other law is on the agenda... )......................................................................................................... No, I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't answer the line... So the reasons for the Democratic Party of Serbia to be nervous doesn't exist. There are reasons on the other side, perhaps for the SRS to be nervous, when the situation in Kragujevac is at stake. On the other hand, for these years, the results are visible and if that's the problem with the SRS, then it has to change something in its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14336	Thank you. We'll be back on the subject. He didn't mention you, Miss Jovanovic. Mr. Dacic, who are you replicating? Mr. Mircic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14337	This debate, which has been being held here for 50 minutes, is mainly due to the public and will not leave any repercusion to current political relations in certain municipalities. The only problem is that the radicals are used to attacking the SPS without having an answer. As for Mr Mircic, as he mentioned earlier where the municipalities where the SPS is holding someone in power, I did not mention that the SPS is holding anyone in power, but I will mention once again that the SPS is participating in the government in more than 80 municipalities in Serbia. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm sure if you could run an analysis of where the SPS and the SRS are, that would certainly be 90 percent of the municipalities where the SRS is in power. The Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia are certainly the most desirable coalition partners of each other. Well, then what do you want? Is this where we fight? You want the SPS gone? It's a strategic wrong policy for you, but that's what Djindjic tried to destroy us, too, and many tried to take us away, so they failed. For us, the Serbian Radical Party is acceptable, we supported them in the second round of local elections and with this kind of leadership, because we do not join the leadership of the SRS. As far as we're concerned, once again, we simply don't want to let ourselves be treated by our party, and in relation to these others who make up the parliamentary majority with us, that's how you behave. Let me tell you one thing -- as far as we're concerned, the Socialist Party of Serbia is the richest in political relations. Whatever side to win the largest number of votes in Serbia, we don't care, neither side can do without us. We don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14338	Okay. Can we move on? Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Here, the word is Miroslav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14339	Let's get back to the subject. Now we've been listening to the propaganda program. Citizens don't know what they're talking about now, whether the election's up or the law. It is up to the draft law on the application and recording of the seized property. So this government has something to do with it. This government opens up processes, doesn't open conflicts. Those who have been ready for these last hour or 45 minutes to open conflicts here obviously have nothing to say about this law. They don't, because if they had anything to say in the last 10, 15 years, they'd say, they'd propose some law and settle this issue. Surely this government doesn't plead to solve this issue either. Someone said the value of the seized property, as it says here -- the property that's nationalized, is about 60 billion dollars. Neither this government nor any government, nor I believe many governments in the world, will ever have that money to solve it. Therefore, it is the government's desire to open the process. As she opened and continued the privatisation process, continued to rebuild the infrastructure, decided to deal with the constitution, not to open but to continue the process of resolving the Kosovo issue, joining Europe, co-operation with The Hague, the government is being tackled and recaptured. This is just the beginning, and whoever's discussing it in a way that's already blocking this, there's no good intentions. Citizens should file reports of what was taken from them, what was taken from their ancestors, and that should be entered into the recording process, and when and how it will be returned, it will only be decided when the application is completed. Therefore, debates that block such a process do not need to confuse citizens from participating in this process tomorrow. This is a matter of good intentions, and anyone well-intentioned in this congregation should support this opening of the process. If we are already working on amendments to this law, then we should do it. (President: You have already participated in the debate on amendments, Mr Jankovic. We should deal with this rather than with each other's party conflicts and reckonings.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14340	Mr. Jankovic, I count this as a replica. I called Mr. Milajić, so I didn't mistake your name, but I first called Mr. Milajić because you spoke of this member; I attribute this to you as a replica to be tolerated and to honor the Rules of Procedure. That's why Mr. Milajic now has his word, and Mr. Jankovic, because of the record, had a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14341	As regards the amendment to Article 3 of this proposal, which regulates the persons who can register the seized property under the grounds set out in Article 1 of this Act, the previous speaker mentioned that the previous authorities wanted to do something about it and that they had a good will to do something about it. However, it is not a matter of goodwill and malice, whether someone is in a good mood or not, but it is a question of the possibility and reality of the process of restitution, or of denationalisation. Article 3 provides that natural persons may report their seized property, i.e. their successors or legal followers. Article 10 of the same law mentions that a special law will regulate the property seized by religious communities and churches. As is known, religious communities and churches do not belong to the category of natural persons. (President: Ms. Jovanovic to concentrate, but you have to work it out with you, and the rest of you are silent, so you, Mr. Milajić, proceed freely. ) It is addressed to all MPs. As for the records of religious communities and churches, as proposed by this law, they would not be able to record their assets because they do not belong to the category of natural persons. How they will record that property remains unknown, according to this bill. It is only provided for in Article 10 that a special law will be passed to recover property, only it is not clear what and how much, because this law should be a previous law, a basic law which allows the adoption of specific laws which will restore property. Also, there remains a major problem, which is that there are no restrictions on citizenship. All natural persons can apply for a return of property. They can stand the folks, Horti's Hungarians, they can stand the Ustashas from Srem, they can stand the Latvians, who have openly collaborated with the Germans. There is absolutely no limit. Just to warn about the size and danger of the problem that will arise by the adoption of special return laws, I will provide the information that, according to the 1939 census, there were 500,000 folks or Danube Germans in Banat and Bačka; in 1945, only 5,000 were left, 495,000 were expelled from Banat and Bačka to Germany. They're not expelled without a legal basis. In 1945, according to the Paris Peace Agreement they signed, the winning forces gave the opportunity to countries that participated in the anti-fascist bloc to confiscate the property of all those who participated in the forces of fascist Germany or Italy, or were open associates. So then the FNRJ had a legal basis, an international legal basis to confiscate the property of the German national minority in Vojvodina. On the basis of the international legal act, confiscation and confiscation of all property was carried out and there were only 5,000 Germans left in Vojvodina. So there was a legal basis. There are no exceptions here, so it leaves the possibility for the Danube Germans, in fact, to their successors or legal followers, who, by some estimates, now have about 22,000, to legitimately make a request for a refund, to register at this request. I talked to my colleagues from the DSS, first of all Mr. Palalic, the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee, on the subject. They believe they will be able to escape this possibility by imposing in a special law on the return of property to churches and religious communities and another law that regulates the return of other assets that only citizens of Serbia-Montenegro can exercise their rights. However, it will not be possible to do so, because if you give this basic law of recording the opportunity for everyone to apply for registration, and for Ustashas, and for Horti's Hungarians, and for the Germans who were through one through the Vermacht, the German occupation forces, I don't know how you will, by special law, deny them the opportunity to exercise that right. It's just, you have an example...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14342	Mr. Milajic, it's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14343	If, if, you hear something smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14344	We can go in the hall, but please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14345	You had an example of the Sudanese Germans, the Czech Republic couldn't enter the EU until it solved the problem of the Sudanese Germans who were expelled, about two million were expelled from the Czech Republic and all of them had to...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14346	Mr. Milajić, please, six minutes and 34 seconds. There are other amendments, but one minute and a half I've tolerated. It really doesn't make sense. Be correct to me, so that I may be correct to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14347	Only when they met that condition could they be admitted to the EU. I am afraid that we will have a similar problem, in much greater ways than the Czech Republic had when it joined the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14348	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 3 and proposes that this member be deleted for logical reasons, because the Proposer has made no mistake and did not understand the possibilities and powers of the one who should register, assess and determine the property that has been taken from our citizens on various grounds; it is 32 legislative projects under which the property has been seized. It is given the authority of the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate to carry out these tasks. According to the SRS, however, the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is not authorized to do these jobs. For these jobs, if there were time and opportunity to return property, which absolutely in the present circumstances and conditions is not possible, only regulation and predicting that something is recorded which is already recorded, and is recorded by a number of state authorities, in those environments where land books still exist, there is a fiction of absolute accuracy in which it is recorded who owns that immovable property. On the other hand, it is not clear how this property will be recorded, and in particular how it will be returned to those owners who owned large areas of agricultural and construction land, then to those who owned industrial buildings. How does the promoter, or the government, think he's bringing the heirs back to the Wyfert brewery? The brewery was taken, bought by a Turkish citizen. Who's supposed to bring that factory back to the brewery? It is known that Turkey is not yet a member of the European Union, the Strasbourg court has already decided at the request of the successors and has refused to return the brewery to the heirs of the Wyfert, and will this ever be possible, as Ante Fiamengo said, remain a question of discussion. On the other hand, how will tens of thousands of acres of agricultural land return to the heirs of Dungerski? How will many industrial facilities and large mobile property be returned that has been taken from our citizens? Who will determine the value of the movable property, and in what state was this movable property at the time of the confiscation? Who's the one who's going to determine its market value now? The Proposer, whether or not he, out of ignorance, provided in Article 3 that he would place that record and determine the trust of the Republic Property Directorate. This is absolutely impossible until a possible law on denationalisation is passed, if conditions and circumstances are created for it, and on the other hand, until the Law on the Property of the Republic of Serbia is changed. That's why this bill will be just one piece of paper and it'll be nothing, it'll be one thing. If the promoter cares about the knowledge of which property was seized, both immovable and mobile, there are land books available, cadastrian books, local self-government, all of which have already been recorded. But I have to tell you that it is not clear in which procedure the market value should be established, whether it will be administrative proceedings, whether it will be judicial proceedings or any other way. I don't see at all the possibility of such a thing and therefore this bill will not be effective because it will not be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14350	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14351	The honourable MPs, the MPs of the SRS, in the principle debate and in the interpretation of the amendments they have submitted to this law, which is not the law, are clear and reasoned to the fact that only recording is nothing but a false hope for a small number of citizens that the DSS promise in the extraordinary parliamentary elections will be fulfilled – that it will pass a law on the return of the seized property. All the absurdities of this law, with the arguments we made in the principle debate and today in the debate on amendments, clearly indicate that this law, as well as the return of property itself, will not be possible. Before his coming to power, and when he came after October 5, DOS had many promises; and here today he is mentioned several times who has good intentions and who has no good intentions. As time passed from October 5th to today, everything promised, allegedly well-intentioned, most citizens of Serbia have seen for the past four years that these were evil intentions and fraud. The new constitution was supposed to follow after October 5th, with so-called. The democratic opposition to Serbia, which came to power, and the Democratic opposition to Serbia retained its name from coming to power to early parliamentary elections. That opposition, so-called. Democratic, in essence, was an opposition to the Serbian people, Serbian national interests, the Serbian state and most Serbian citizens. It's a cruel reality. Well, this democratic bloc, which has been coming since January 2004, with this government, also promised a new constitution by June, and here comes the new June 2005 moon; the construction of state institutions, and as time passes, a year and more have passed with the new government, the state institutions not to strengthen but to collapse. It was announced in 2000 and 2004, with the democratic bloc and Kostunica headed, a sharp fight against crime, and crime is growing from day to day. Crime has gripped all the pores of life and work, but unfortunately, the state does not act with its institutions, the competent authorities do not act. Citizens have lost all hope in the state's ability to fight crime, because this crime, in connection with power, simply robs and kidnaps anything that is possible to kidnap in Serbia. The proof of that is this so-called. Privatization, privatisation equal robbery. The Democratic bloc, headed by Kostunica in January 2004, pledged to immediately amend the Privatisation Act, to immediately review privatisations conducted by that time. What was done in a year? Here were the praises of the Performance Study and even some commendation that they would not give up on the existing model of privatisation. I have only one example of where the state participates with the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, with the competent state authorities (MUP, the prosecution, courts), the case of the King's Poljoprom. The majority owner, or buyer, sold more than 40% of the immovable property for over 2m euros. He's in custody this fall. He's been in custody for three months. Someone connected directly to him was released from custody. The Council of the Supreme Court left him out of custody. He and such a buyer return to Poljoport to continue to be the majority owner. The contract termination suit was filed by the agency to the Trade Court in Belgrade on 4.8.2004. Today is April 19th 2005 and there is no verdict on the Agency's suit. Simply, the state or those representing the state do not want to protect those workers who have no jobs for nine months, have no salaries, and remain without property, but have lost their assets. The majority owner mortgaged the other 60%, second row, and took loans from mob banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14352	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14353	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 3. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law on the registration and registration of the seized property was submitted by MP Verica Radeta. The Verice Radete amendment requires the removal of this member. This article provides that only natural persons to whom that property has been seized, or their successors or legal followers, may submit the application, as provided for in the provisions of this Act. Therefore, Article 1 of this Article has practically excluded certain categories, and they have been deprived of the possibility to apply for the registration of property under this law. This first refers to stock companies that have also been seized by large assets, as well as certain legal entities, such as those. Serbian Orthodox Church. Why is this done? Why does a law that allegedly requires the correcting of the injustices that have been made to a particular wide circle of faces, both legal and physical, introduce such restrictions, or if you are already in favour of denationalisation, then why not implement it towards everyone and in full scope? The position of the 2nd member states that the application under Article 1 is to be submitted to the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which is a bad solution because the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia has a clearly prescribed competence under the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone knows very well that the Republic Directorate, and this is how, under this existing law, there's enough work to be done. It is known that the resources available are extremely limited. You didn't foresee to enforce this law any greater means. Only three million dinars are foreseen. It's completely unclear how you think you can get this really big deal to the Republic Property Directorate, given the people and the technique that it now owns, and given that this size of work you're not going to have to cut now. What is also controversial, if argued in the explanation, is that the law has the purpose of determining, among other things, the volume and value of the property seized, that and in any way, the value of this property, when it is known that neither in this form nor in the law, is intended for those who submit the application in any way and assess the value of that property. This is where we come to the story, and you mentioned the agencies earlier, we know that this is the specialty of the DOS regime – the establishment of agencies, but in this case you probably left as a second step in setting up an agency that will assess the value of the reported, i.e. the registered assets seized after 9 March 1945. It is then provided that the application is to be submitted in two copies. I'm asking you what will happen if someone under this law submits an application, for example. in one or three copies? Will that be the basis for the rejection of the application? I remind you that nothing further has been regulated by the law, which means that even though you had five years to pass the law you didn't do it, that this is a hill-wrestle, because if you've prescribed the way something has to be done, then you should have prescribed and what will happen if it isn't done that way. Then, a completely pointless provision, which says that the application is submitted directly or by mail recommended. Gentlemen, I'm asking you, what happens if someone submits an application in the mail, but not recommended, but submitted by a simple letter? Is that going to be one of the reasons for rejecting this application? I think that would be a great contribution to both the legal science and the senselessness that you've been supporting and doing since you came to power in 2000. Finally, it is said that the application must be submitted in a form printed under this law and made part of it. (President: Mr. Sarovic, time. I'm done. Everyone who saw the pattern also saw that it was absolutely impossible on this form as you made it and for one immobilization, if you need to describe everything else, let alone for those owners who have numerous immovable properties, fields or residential buildings, or mobile things taken away. It's absolutely impossible for all of this to fit on this application. Then what happens if someone submits a report...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14354	Mr. Sarovic, do you even care how long it's been? Why are you trying to abuse my tolerance? You're a young man and it's not good to learn to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sarovic, please respect the Rules of Procedure. It's been five minutes, more than a minute and a half, so please finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14355	Mr. Angelkovic, be as patient as you are with others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14356	It's not even too much tolerance, because then it goes into insecureness. Therefore, I ask you to respect my tolerance and still complete the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14357	Mr. Angelkovic, some previous speakers from the ruling parties, who in no word touched this amendment or the law, did not interrupt. You're interrupting me now, even though my entire discussion was focused on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14358	Mr. Sarovic, if you would like me to remind you, this is where Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic spoke for seven minutes, then several other MPs from the SRS spoke for 6.5 minutes. And you've been talking for over seven minutes. So I'm asking you to finish your discussion. You're done. It's been two minutes. You're a young man, respect the law and the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure in this assembly are the law. So I ask you to teach that you respect the standards that this congregation adopts. You're done. Thank you. Mr. Sarovic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14359	Article 100, or the dignity of the National Assembly, was injured. You, Mr. Angelkovic, as chairman, and we have otherwise warned Mr. Markovic and everyone else who holds the presidency, are expected to view all the MPs in the same way. It is unacceptable when the president abuses his office or you abuse it as chairman, you enter my word, you speak more than two and a half minutes, and you remind me that I have spoken more than seven. I've been talking about the amendment for about five minutes. For five minutes and 20 seconds, you interrupted me for the first time, and then that time you used, you couldn't just count on the time I used to explain the amendment. Secondly, you yourself have found that several MPs have spoken for over seven minutes. I don't know why you're so intolerant of me, if it's any personal animosity, I really don't have anything against you, and I hope you'll have the same degree of democracy and tolerance in the future. And don't, I wouldn't beg you to disrespect me for being a younger man. Like everyone else, I've been elected here by the citizens and, above all, I'm a National MP. My age doesn't matter, it doesn't matter who I'm half or anything else. The only thing I ask is that you treat me like others, and make sure that what I failed to explain under this amendment is that I will use my right to take advantage of one of the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14360	Thank you. First, I expressed my satisfaction that you are a young man and makes me happy because as a young man, I was sitting in this congregation, younger than you are. Secondly, you admitted that I only warned you for five minutes and 22 seconds, so I let you go more, 21, come on, Mr. Markovic. Thirdly, all those who overstepped time this afternoon were from opposition lines and that's good, but it shouldn't be exaggerated. Please, as we have so far had mutual understanding, so let's continue in the tolerance tone. National MP Mr. Milan Veselinovic has a word. Here you go. It was done by one of the chairmans here, and I have no intention of making any warnings, we are colleagues here, and we will find a way to solve this problem in mutual communication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14361	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman today regularly violates the Rules of Procedure. He simply responds from the scene and comments on everything the MPs here say. We senior MPs still remember Radoman Bozovic, who still made sense and was an inspiration to us Serbian radicals, but it seems to me that Mr. Angelkovic is trying to tame us in this way, to prevent us from talking about amendments and to only comment on this pointless law proposed by most in this assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have on several occasions told this speaker that this law that we are discussing today is pointless. It's a pure hoax to the citizens of Serbia. When the minister gave an explanation, he said the law would reconcile citizens and states of Serbia. It's absurd, that with one of these political pamphlets we can reconcile the citizens and the state. So those who report their assets have settled with the state of Serbia. It's impossible under one of these laws because Serbian citizens don't get anything from these people except that they have to go (that's what Article 3 of this law provides) to look for deedes, papers, so maybe it comes down to two witnesses one day, to prove they had property and that they were damaged. It is said in this law that only later will the law on denationalisation be passed. After that, when some results are summed up, the state needs to measure its strength and pass some law. What kind of law that will be and who will bring it, we'll wait and see. Since you gave the deadline on June 30th 2006, this means that this government has in some way given its mandate. But from this pay phone, I say it's a long period, June 30, 2006, if it goes on with the work you're doing here. All these legal projects that we bring to this assembly are irrelevant to the citizens of Serbia. This is where my colleagues mentioned the Privatization Act, which you promised to change to the root as soon as you came to power. Unfortunately, to this day these are just some cosmetic changes, the Law on Privatisation is the greatest evil, on which Serbian citizens are legally robbed. It would be best if you had listened to Mr. Vukic today, so that we could end this pointless debate and simply condemn all of us MPs ourselves to be locked up in these assembly benches until we reach a consensus on Kosovo and Metohija. This is the most important problem today that is affecting our country, the state of Serbia and all the legal projects we bring will not be valid because they cannot be applied to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. You say in this Article 3 that the records will be made by the Republic Property Directorate. That directorate was separated about three million dinars. I think that directorate will spend and swallow at least three times as much money until this job is partially done. We felt that this job could have been done by the state of Serbia through its authorities and authorities and that we MPs had the number of damaged citizens in front of us from 9 March 1945 to today. With that number, you might be able to handle it and you wouldn't be talking about billions here today, 60, 80 or so. The state of Serbia has already been able to find and find the intersection without inviting citizens to record their assets. In the end, what to say at all about this law and Article 3. It'd be good...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14362	Mr. Veselinović, no matter what you said at the beginning, it's been six minutes. Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14363	It'd be good and best...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14364	I even counted you a minute while you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14365	... that this project is withdrawn from the assembly procedure and that normally, with the full respect of the damaged citizens of Serbia, a law that would regulate this matter, because then citizens would not be deceived and would not write passwords against this law today...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14366	Mr. Veselinović...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14367	And you could see and hear in front of the Assembly, and, I don't know, Dinkic's thief, Labus a liar and something like that. So they'd avoid at least that kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14368	Mr. Veselinović, do you have any intentions...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14370	Mr. Veselinović, you spoke for seven minutes, and five are allowed according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, that is, our colleague, Verica Radeta, has tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. All MPs of the Serbian Radical Party who have participated so far in the debate in principle and details explained all the nonsense of this bill, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly. The law is essentially inaccurate. One of the ruling coalition's MPs told the speaker that a good government will is needed. They were not elected here to show good faith to Serbian citizens, but were chosen to pass and enforce laws that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. The essence of this bill is, therefore, not the goodwill of the government, but the government should work for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and the state. A colleague from the Serbian Radical Party who spoke about this assembly's speech on the nature of the law cited reasoned reasons why the National Assembly should not vote for the bill. I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not withdraw this law from the assembly procedure. So, you still have a chance and a chance to withdraw this bill, because, of course, not only is it imprecise, it's not well-conceived, this bill was made, first of all, in a hurry. Practice has shown, when it comes to many of the laws that you have proposed to the National Assembly, that you wanted to show the citizens of Serbia that you have passed a bunch of laws, and most of those laws that you voted by the will of your majority were not well-conceived. Our goal here in the Serbian Parliament is not to obstruct parliament, but to point to everything that is not good in your legal proposals. And because your MPs of the ruling coalition when they come out for a pay phone say you should show good will, that doesn't mean anything to the citizens of Serbia. It will not be better for Serbian citizens, as Serbian citizens are having a hard time living. The citizens of Serbia are quite an empty story, which you have told in this people's parliament. As for the time mentioned by the chairman, the time of the Serbian Radical Party is just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14372	I don't mind, Mr. Djordjevic, every time he comes. Is anyone else answering for word by this article?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14373	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to be very brief and I don't think I'm going to overstep this time I've been given to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out the absurdity of this member and which is why the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is in favour of eradicating this member. This is why: this member says that the transfer of property under the provisions of this law is made by natural persons whose property has been seized by the application of the rules laid down in Article 1 or their successors, i.e. legal followers. We turn out to be a non-serious state, we look ridiculous in front of those who have already been wronged once. We all agreed in this House that those whose property has been confiscated, confiscated or otherwise lost that property at this time must report their property. If we are a serious state and a serious parliament and if you have serious intention to adopt this law, then you should be at the height of the task and prescribe that registration and registration are performed ex officio. So the state itself needs to know what it is for its citizens to be taken away and to carry out this recording process on its own, of course, assessment. So, once a citizen has been wronged, another injustice now seems to be another injustice, that they are gathered in the white world, that they submit applications and that their property is recorded as potential for return. So I find it unfair for these people who have already been denied the right, or violated the right to private property. You're saying that the first application is filed by the persons to whom it was taken; I can agree with that, but I cannot agree with that application being filed by their successors. The question is, who are all the heirs? So it can happen that they challenge each other's inheritance and that someone is not someone's heir, and he filed a complaint. What about those reports? Will such applications be taken into account? So these are some facts that we need to take care of, for practical reasons. Here's the thing, we're in a hurry. We will come into an awkward situation if we adopt this law and in this form of text. For these reasons, I propose that the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party be adopted. There's one more thing I have to say, which I mentioned when I spoke in the principle debate - the laws by which the property was seized were mostly federal laws. I didn't just emphasize it for the sake of order, but precisely because when it was taken away, it became federal property, so the assets of the Federation, regardless of whether it was called FNRJ, SFRY, etc. And when it is due to return, Serbia is obliged to return. This has become not only Serbia's capital, but also the capital that has spread to other federal units. For these reasons, this law is now an injustice to Serbia, as a Member State of the Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14374	I thank Ambassador Milan Stevovic. Who else wants a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14375	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party, as well as those who were before and who would follow, wants to fully deny, in front of citizens, the need for such a law on the application and registration of seized property. What's this about? When I spoke in principle about this law, I cited an example of Negotina, where about 20,000 people live abroad. A large number of them, which are already the third and fourth generations of those who left after the war, whose assets have been taken away, come once a year to Serbia; during that time, accustomed to non-functioning mostly local self-government, do not arrive to extract even the most ordinary documents, because they need a few days. I said this law would not be advertised so that people would be directed to what their rights are, until they can record property and this will, of course, remain a secret to the largest number of people who would need to report their seized property. However, it can be seen from the law that it is completely incomplete, it appears, under Article 7, that the state authorities, institutions at the local, republican and regional level, possess data on how much, how and from which property they have been seized. It is enough, without any other record, for the Republic of Serbia to come up with a full record of how things are right now. However, the desire of whoever wrote this law (and it is seen by this Article 3) is to practically give citizens something without giving them anything. What's this about? A large part of the property seized, when it comes to real estate in the form of residential buildings, houses or business premises, is now located mainly in the centers of populated towns and cities. The owners of the property may not be in Serbia, they may live abroad; they will not be able to record the property by June 1st. Local self-government has all the data about it, when it's taken away, from whom it's taken away, in what way. It will happen that they do not report, and you will say, "If it has not been reported, it has not been reported, it has not been taken away." The largest number of local powerful people already in the privatisation process have taken a look at such facilities, especially business premises; they are, of course, just waiting until June 1st next year for no one to report a claim to, to give freely in privatisation at a bargain price. Of course, such business, housing, or even objects will come to those who are aiming at them. Why did I mention Article 7, although we're going to talk about it in detail? Because it is said here that the property that is registered will be recorded and compared to the records already owned by local self-government, state authorities and institutions at local, autonomous or republican level. You have thus made it clear through the law that practically only those for whom data already exists in local self-government units or at these other levels will be recognised as those who seek property. But further in your explanation, you say that, and if they report seized property, their right to return property will depend on how much money the state has. I told you that law can't depend on how much money the state has. The state must grant them the right to confiscated property, if they are already registered, and then it can say that it is unable to repay the seized property or otherwise depriving the owners or their legal heirs, and you cannot possibly link it to their right to claim property. That's why it's really best if you pull this out of the process. In the debate in principle, I have told you, and I am now saying that you, which has been unrecorded so far in parliamentary practice in the world, as the ruling majority, have been obstructing Parliament's work, because we have been discussing something that is completely unnecessary for several days, and you know that there are far more important laws that this assembly should discuss and declare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14376	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here is the word of the People's MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms Verica Radeta, MP of the Serbian Radical Party, submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the registration and registration of the seized property, which reads - the application of the confiscated property under the provisions of this Act shall be submitted by natural persons to whom the property has been withdrawn by the application of the rules laid down in Article 1 of this Act or by their successors, i.e. legal followers. It is the first position of this member of the law, which just shows the meaning of the objections of Serbian Radical Party MPs who had discussed it in the previous days. It is this amendment that shows how pointless this legislative proposal is, how much a political farce it is, how much this bill is a political pamphlet that serves only to distract Serbian citizens, just to give false hope to a vast number of Serbian citizens who count that this rule will really enable them to get their property back or to compensate them for the damage they or their ancestors suffered from previous authorities, and in essence, this law is completely inapplicable. This law is completely pointless. It is proposed at the wrong moment and the wrong environment and cannot be called the right law or the real possibility for this political moment. What are the problems with Article 3? Exactly what Serbian Radical Party MPs have been saying in principle, and that is that it is not with absolute certainty to determine the legitimacy of the heirs of the disputed property. We can get into a situation where more heirs report to the same property, which is theoretically entirely possible. Who, and on the basis of what powers and criteria, will determine which of them is the true heir to the disputed property? And what if we get into a situation where the disputed property is brought up with a lawsuit to determine who is the legitimate heir to that property? This law does not provide for any of these, and these are all examples of real life for Serbian citizens, all that the legislator should have foreseen in this law. It is also not possible to determine with certainty the legitimacy of the property, as you yourself said on several occasions that in a number of cases, the state does not possess documentation of the seized property, and you are asking the potential owners, or their successors, to submit evidence of the seized property. So it could be that someone is looking for something that isn't really his, which didn't belong to his ancestors, and that's also a problem that this bill doesn't treat. As for Article 3, on which the amendment was submitted by colleague Verica Radeta, the second view says that the application from Article 1 of this Article is submitted to the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Directorate), in two copies, directly or by post, to a form printed under this law and made it an integral part of it. I was simply surprised when I read in this law that the proposer did not propose to one agency that would do the work of collecting documentation, which would have dealt with this job, but you suggested that it would be the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which actually has no jurisdiction over something like that. The Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia has competences clearly prescribed by the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. It keeps records of property owned by the Republic of Serbia and represents an organisation that manages the property of the Republic on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We of the SRS parliamentary group believe that any extension of the authority of this organisation, which works on behalf of and at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would be unauthorized and not in the same rank as the disaster and other bodies. It is just amazing that today we are dealing with such a bill, and we are not dealing with key issues that are of vital interest to the citizens of Serbia, for the Serbian people. It is simply amazing that this government is not completely interested in citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, and they too have been taken away from property. How do you expect them to compensate for the damage they've suffered? Under circumstances, I am one of the MPs who visited schools in Kosovo and Metohija last weekend, to whom the Serbian Radical Party has donated 100 computers. I have personally seen the conditions of living there, the conditions under which our children live, learn and work. I'm really sorry that we're in the congregation today, and we're not trying to at least make these people feel like an integral part of this country, to instill in them that this country cares for them. They're on their own there. They no longer trust anyone and the gift of the SRS has made them very happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-19-0.u14378	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. () Okay, but since it's less than three minutes and I don't want to interrupt any MP, I suggest you be the first tomorrow at 10 o'clock. I'll see you tomorrow at 10. Thank you and good-bye.
