ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15292	I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, but not by a certain member, but by all members of the Rules of Procedure, according to the electoral law and everything that applies in this country as an electoral principle and the principle of protection of the democratic rules of the game. Yesterday was a black day for the National Assembly. Yesterday there was such an abduction and such a form of corruption as was unremembered in the National Assembly. There have been times before to undo the electoral will of the citizens, by trying to hijack the mandate, but those who did so even though they tried to cover it up with some legal form, tried to do it in some way, to justify themselves, and never pointed out firstly that they were doing it by buying. It was the first time a man named Bogoljub Karic held a mandate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday. How do we know it's about shopping? How do we know that it's a simple political thieving and the most brazen form of state corruption that can exist? By his own boasting of Mr Bogoljub Karic, by giving interviews in the newspaper, by bidding on the names of MPs and politicians in Serbia who he would like to have in his ranks. How and in what way? By answering the questions of the press, he claimed there was nothing wrong with that. He did it yesterday with a man, an unfortunate man whose name I don't even want to mention here. (President: I understand your anger, but I warn you about how you express yourself about the MPs of the people. () What is done to Serbia? It's done enormous damage. I do not believe that there is a political party in this House, regardless of our political differences, which does not share the minimum of common values, which we all like to call European democratic values, basic democratic principles. All of us, at the very end of the line, share the minimum of these principles here, and this breaks those principles in the bud. This is the biggest evil the state of Serbia has faced, at least since 2000, to date, if not longer in the past. I think it would be necessary for the heads of Parliament's parliamentary groups to meet and take a position on this issue during today's day, may also take a break, and to issue a statement from that meeting that would result from the parliament's parliamentary group's opinion. I appeal to our fellow People's MPs, all 249 of them in this House, not to allow them to be manipulated in this way, to lie on their behalf and on their family's behalf, because what this unfortunate man has done will leave a deep trail on him personally, on his environment and on his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15293	Mr. Lekic, I'm sorry, I didn't give you my word. I will not allow the future to be spoken by the Rules of Procedure, this is the second time, by members from 1st to 236th. I have a lot of understanding for your position, Mr. Aligrudic, and I'm asking for the heads of Parliament to meet in the president's office at 1:00 p.m. Mr. Lekic, on what basis are you looking for a word? I'm sorry, no MP has been mentioned. When it comes to speaking about MPs, it is possible that you have not heard about the noise in the hall, check the stenogram, I have warned MP Aligrudic that he chooses his words carefully and does not speak negatively of any MP. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and I am authorising Vice President Zankov to continue holding the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15294	The word was won by Zoran Krasic. The president gave his word to Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15295	Please, Mr. Lekic, there is no mention of any parliamentary party and be kind, go to your seat. Do we not understand each other on an axiological, symbolic or normative level? Please be kind, we respect the Rules of Procedure, go back to your place. Mr. Zankov, by my authority, continue to hold the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15296	Mr. Lekic, go to your seat, and the word has been given to MP Zoran Krasic. You heard the president. I can continue to give my word afterwards, and now the word has been received by MP Zoran Krasic and please step away from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15297	Finally, Article 12. It's a bill of law. I'll make sure that discussion of this Article 12 goes back to the way it started. I draw attention to the MPs, given that the draft constitution is under way, that this will probably be interesting because of some new solutions in our constitution. Article 12. The bill should explain the powers or powers of the Prime Minister. What is proposed by the amendment also concerns the area – the authority of the Prime Minister. Then we heard in the discussion here that what the government is proposing to this member is in favour of strengthening the position of Prime Minister, and what is promoted by this amendment is based on a different concept. We've had opportunities here to hear what the constitutional position of the Prime Minister is. In order to define his position, MPs have come from the provision of Article 90. The Constitution, where the government's jurisdiction is given. What happened in the debate is what kind of government this constitution is. This isn't so-called. the type of office government, because if it were the office government, then only the Prime Minister would be elected, and he would keep the MPs informed of the composition and changes in the composition of his government. But this is not even the type of government that knows the parallel practice (although, there is less and less countries where such practice exists), where, practically, when forming a government vote on each individual candidate and forming a special college body responsible for policy-making, i.e. to implement the executive authority. We can say that, according to this 1990 constitution, we have one half solution, something that's in between -- not a classical office government, it was in the Constitution of the SRJ, but it's not even the type of executive council that was in constitutional solutions before 1990. What you can say on the basis of Article 90. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, however, is that it tends more to one office form and government organisation, as it is said in the jargon – was a member of the government of the government and the government. All these problems that can arise within the Government cannot be solved in the way proposed by the amendment, but cannot be solved in any way as referred to in Article 12. It's a bill of law. Something that would be in line with the Constitution would be some half solution, which probably the Prime Minister would treat not as the first among the equals, because, in the end, there is a vote here on his programme and his composition, but it is still voted on by him, primarily. Given the fact that he can seek the resolution of the Minister in question from the National Assembly, I think neither the Government nor the Proposer of this law nor this intervention through the amendments can solve what is stated in the Constitution and determine that spirit, the true spirit that stands in the Constitution. If we are looking for a right and proper solution, it should probably be halfway between the proposed Article 12 and this amendment. There are two concepts here, and our constitution has one intervariant that it promotes. I would also suggest to the representatives of the government, and even to the applicant of the amendment, I think there is room to find an adequate solution, because I think neither of the other solutions offered here as an alternative reflect the true essence of Articles 90 and 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they do not see the true position of the Prime Minister. What is predicted, above all, to Article 12, in the event of a disagreement, that is, if the minister thinks that the Prime Minister has exceeded some authority when he has given him a specific order and a solution to that situation, he finds it in the very session of the Government, does not correspond to the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15298	Is anyone else answering for the amendment to Article 12? Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15299	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are today talking about Article 12. Proposal for a law and amendment submitted to this article. What's controversial, that's attitude 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15300	Mr. Jovanovic, I'm sorry. I ask all the MPs for some silence and order in the O.R. so that they can discuss themselves. Here, I'll give you back your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15301	So, what is controversial in Article 12, that is, Section 3, where it is said that a member of the government may request the government to decide whether or not the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. In fact, this stance refers to the previous position, paragraph 2, where the Prime Minister is said to be able to give mandatory instructions and special duties to other members of the government, in accordance with the programme and government policy. It now leaves the possibility for a member of the government, means the minister, to ask the government to declare whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers in the issue of tasks to individual members of the government. I think this is a pointless provision, a very unfortunate provision, and that this cannot and should not remain in the law, that it should not be adopted and that this must be changed. In fact, nowhere in the bill of law stands the decadent authority of the Prime Minister. In a few places, government powers are mentioned, as a collective body, but no individual and decadent powers have been given to the Prime Minister, especially with regard to other government members, compared to ministers. Also, what's not good in this bill, is that this article isn't finished. What happens if the Government, at the request of the minister to whom an assignment has been issued, declares that the Prime Minister has exceeded his authority? What in that case? The law doesn't predict that. Nowhere has it been said what will happen and whether it is logical for such a Prime Minister to remain in place. It doesn't make sense. If he has exceeded his powers over the minister, he has exceeded his powers in relation to other Serbian citizens and logically, if you are already leaving this provision, to write something further, what in that case. This article has not been completed and needs this, in my opinion, to change and adapt to our actual conditions. The government is a collective body; the Prime Minister, or prime minister, chooses his associates and has no common sense that they plead whether he has exceeded his powers. If he chose them, he chose people with whom he could cooperate, not give them orders, so that they would vote on it whether he overstepped the powers and whether what he did was right or not. I think this needs to be changed. This amendment may not be the happiest solution either, but right now we have nothing more similar and I think we should accept that what's written in the proposal should be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15302	First came the word of the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, then the People's Messenger Zivadin Lekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15303	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as this debate on details moves more and more away, the proponent or the ruling majority is overcoming itself more and more. The most controversial part in this Article 12. The bill is a position 3: "A member of the government may request that the government decide whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. "Is this written that the Prime Minister would not interfere in his business at all and that ministers could do literally whatever they want in that government? It seems to me that it's the motionary, the government, that it can literally not answer to anyone, and that the Prime Minister is responding to the National Assembly. So, ministers can do what they want, but that's why they'll suffer the Prime Minister. When the government is elected, i.e. when the assembly majority is established on the basis of which the government will be elected, there is a prime minister, future Prime Minister, who is present before this assembly the government programme and represents the National Assembly of Ministers, that is a beautiful word, but the rights and literal one is – the officials who work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's nothing else. If the Prime Minister oversteps his powers, who does he answer to? Not to the ministers, they did not choose him, but the National Assembly elected the Prime Minister and he corresponds to the National Assembly. If the Prime Minister can't make his proposal or any position or any of his instructions to implement it in the government, he remains to ask the Prime Minister to resign, and if he won't, to propose to the National Assembly to resolve it; and if the position of the majority in the government itself is that the Prime Minister can't do his job, and I don't think he wants to do his job, then to resign and try to make a new coalition, some new assembly majority or some new government with the old coalition partners. This is how literally certain ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia can do whatever they want and will always be able to do a lobby in the government of the Republic of Serbia to work past the Prime Minister and beyond the will of the parliamentary majority, even beyond the will of the Serbian Parliament. Who's going to answer? Only the Prime Minister. It seems to me that there is a financial lobby here that exists in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that this Article 12, respectively, position 3. The bill corresponds solely to them because it is already evident that individual members of the government do not listen to the Prime Minister at all and do literally whatever they want and whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15304	The People's MP Zivadin Lekic came forward. Mr. Lekic, I realize there's no quorum to work with and I'm setting a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the break given by the Vice President of the Assembly, we continue our work. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system in order to determine the quorum. Thank you. Using the electronic voting system, I find that we have a quorum. The word has been given by the MP Lekic. He's not here. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. He's not here. They've already spoken, I'm sorry. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. I'm sorry, you've already talked about this amendment, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Excuse me, Mrs. Comic, I thought, since the question was whether the amendment... Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Let me just say, no one else by amendment. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15306	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 28. Rules of Procedure; it is not a violation, but a proposal to the president or chair of the Assembly. Here is a proposal by MP Zoran Krasic to find a mechanism to agree on the text of the amendment proposed by our parliamentary group to Article 12, where the key part, of course, is to delete the last position from the proposed member. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to inform both the Minister and all MPs that we accept the agreement, whether on the Legislative Committee or if we find another mechanism to agree that the amendment is an amendment to change and part of the text, if the SRS MPs have a better wording in the previous positions. I think it's very important that we all agree to change the last position, where a member of the government is given the legal right to call the Prime Minister, and there are no mechanisms after, and what if he's wrong or what if he's right, and which is in fact the interference of other laws in the government law. I know there is no clear and clear procedure to do this now, but if the Assembly agree to be a correction of the amendment, to be the text of the Committee on Justice or the Legislative Committee, we simply feel that we should say that we are ready for the text changes to those attitudes that precede (no longer precede, since there is no fourth position), in order to erase from that article the last position. Our intention is not to make any amendments, and I think we're proving this is neither about this amendment, to do anything but improve the text of a law that is equally important to everyone. Calling on the Rules of Procedure is the only way to propose to the President of the Assembly that, together with the professional services or the presidents of the Legislative or Justice and Management Committee, he finds a mechanism which is within the Rules of Procedure and that we do not violate any regulation and law and that the common benefit be the adoption of such a corrected amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15307	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I really don't see a business way now; I stand at the disposal of both Minister Loncar and representatives of political parties who have expressed their willingness to agree on an amendment that would then be forwarded. I'm at my disposal. I really don't see how. Thank you. After the previous amendment? I asked one more time, and you responded after the previous amendment. I'm sorry, it's okay, I'm saying I didn't see it, so I asked extra questions earlier, I didn't really notice. Let's just say, that there wouldn't be any trouble in the record, aside from my question to Mrs. Comic... No, we're not done arguing. Just a moment, Mr. Wolfie, we respect the Rules of Procedure, and I won't allow you until I finish my sentence. So, according to Article 12, we haven't finished the debate. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15308	I apologize if there was any confusion, I answered in time, but Mrs. Comic had the advantage of reporting to the Rules of Procedure, which is why she got word earlier. In the Serbian Radical Party, we believe that the inability to survive the position of the 3rd member of the 12th proposed law, for the simple reason that it, at least in dual vision, threatens the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In one part, it is jeopardizing the principle of power-sharing, as the basic principle of government functioning in this country, and on the other hand, mitigates and restricts the powers of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, reduces his responsibility to a significant extent and can lead to an extremely confusing situation in the very functioning of the highest executive authority. So we in the Serbian Radical Party think it is necessary to enable each government, as laws are passed also because of this government, to operate in a constitutionally prescribed and declared manner, in accordance with the principle of power-sharing, that it be accountable to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to the MPs in this high house. Of course, MPs should be fairly elected on the lists proposed and as citizens have declared, not that the principle of thievery is the highest principle accepted in this country, no matter who it comes from. So that's something I'm absolutely convinced of, and I want the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept. And with this idea of Mr Krasic, which he said earlier, I think it is possible to reach that kind of agreement, and above all on the Legislative Committee, so that we can find the best possible solution. I do not believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister in particular may mind changing this position within Article 12. I know that everyone in Serbia is bothered by the principle of looting the people's will, the principle of thieving the people's will. I am happy and pleased that, like all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, in the church, I swore an oath, where I swore my name and honor and the glory of my ancestors and the future of my descendants, and then I said the following, with my MP's mandate, at all times, that the central Fatherland administration of the Serbian Radical Party will have, and I will obey her unconditionally; as I have respected and fulfilled this oath, so will God help me. I am proud to stick to these oaths today, I am proud that almost all Serbian radicals of those oaths are held and have what to care about, and about their offspring, and to be proud of their ancestors, and some others to think about how they do, what they do, but let them know that the principle of thieving and kidnapping will never get most in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15309	Please, does anyone else want to talk about Mrs. Comic's amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Excuse me, Minister, I haven't seen you. Today, many don't respect the Rules of Procedure, so here I am, too, unable to take care of everything, so I don't see when they report at the same time. Here you go. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's end the debate on amendments to Article 12. As a representative of the Government, after the argument that we had the opportunity to hear, regarding this member – especially since I said in the opening part that all those amendments, regardless of who they come from, which they deserve by their quality, will have the consent of the Government – will give the government's consent to accept this proposal from the MP, Mrs Gordana Komic, if possible. As far as I know, your Rules of Procedure doesn't allow such a thing at this point, which means it's not legally possible. If possible, find a solution, you have the government's consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15311	So, if I understand correctly, you accept my initiative to see if it's possible at the meeting. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15312	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 13 has the title – Vice-President of the Government, and in four positions defines, more or less, what it should do and what the position of the Deputy Prime Minister is in line with the overall idea in the draft government law. Our amendment refers to a change in the first position. In the draft law, the first position states: ′′The Vice-President of the Government directs and coordinates the work of the government's authorities in areas designated by the Prime Minister. ′′ The amendment, essentially, one part of the language changes what we have added, here you will see it from the quote of the amendment. So we propose that the first position reads: "In the election of the Government, the number of vice-presidents is determined, the vice-president shall be appointed to replace the Prime Minister and the work of each vice-president. "Apart from the fact that it is in line with all the other proposed amendments that we have submitted to the Bill on Government, in our opinion, he makes it absolutely clear to the Prime Minister's candidate that he already clearly informs the National Assembly of what will be the job of his vice presidents, who will replace him and how, because this is the only way for the Assembly to really control the government. In order not to have general calls for control, but if we have a clearly defined problem in the National Assembly or topic from the work of the Government that we consider problematic that we know which vice president is in charge of it and that we call for responsibility, or, hopefully, to question that Vice President of the Government. In essence, this amendment only explains the first position, and if you look at the texts of all 28 amendments submitted by the Democratic Party, you would see that by adopting all amendments you get one comprehensive text of the law, because we think that this is the only responsible way you can submit amendments to some draft law. It is not only about the resulting amendments, but it is about clarification and individual amendments that have been removed from the government law what we consider to be no place in the government law. The Deputy Prime Minister is an important function and regardless of how ungrateful it is to compare the text of a law that is yet to be applied to a future government or, let's say, that is even our question – will the current Government be reorganised when the parliamentary majority adopts such a bill on government. So, the Deputy Prime Minister, in the case of an existing government, is practically the Prime Minister for certain issues, and we, without priors, say, paper, of any kind, we know about what the Deputy Prime Minister is dealing with, and what the Prime Minister is dealing with. We find it much simpler to write this in law and to be clear to the candidate for Prime Minister, when he speaks to the Assembly, the exact work of his vice presidents, as well as to which one of the vice presidents will put to replace him. In this place, just one brief remark. Why have we submitted amendments in this form to you? We know that Serbia will always have a coalition government. And it is good that any regulation concerning the organisation of the Government, the Assembly, that even the communication strategy of the institutions adapts to reality. So, you won't have a government in Serbia that will make up one party and you haven't had one since 1992. It is often forgotten, because the public in Serbia sees one party as the leading, and then forgets, essentially, who is who supports the government; in 1992 you had silent support for one government that fell in 1993, so you had a coalition government in 1997, then a coalition government again by 2001, and a coalition government again, and now we have a coalition government. Serbia's electoral body is such that it will always resolve in terms of forming coalition governments, so it is important in law to know exactly what it is that it will be the duty of vice president, because it will be a coalition government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15313	Thank you. On the occasion of the same amendment, the People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the discussion on this bill, we all agreed, more or less, that one law should be passed that will be applicable in the coming period, regardless of what will be changed by the government. The fact is that we have come from the need to establish a clear division of government in Serbia between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. I am afraid that this amendment in this text is more like a solution that goes towards establishing in some form that system of unity of government and that the Government is bound by hands when it comes to its internal organisation. I've been studying some comparative solutions, but I don't know if the law defines the authority of the Deputy Prime Minister. In most cases, the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of monitoring the situation in certain coordination between individual ministries and those responsibilities may change during the term of office. It is precisely in the hands of the Prime Minister that he is giving individual duties to individual vice-presidents and, if he considers it necessary, precisely for the efficiency of the government's work and coordination, to change them during the term of office. We would have a situation here, if we had adopted this amendment, that the Assembly would determine the Vice-President of the Government who would have his responsibilities, or that the Prime Minister would determine what powers the Deputy Prime Minister would have and that those responsibilities would last throughout the term of office. Looking at the overall nature of this bill, it is clear that the tendency to make the government operational, effective, to have independence in its work, that the Prime Minister, by means of the solutions set out in Article 12, has the opportunity to be a policymaker in some way. Why, then, should the Prime Minister be limited by giving individual responsibilities to the vice presidents? I think this is a bad amendment, not to that extent, because the Assembly has other instruments to control the government's work. This is exactly the kind of amendment that binds the government's hands in technical affairs, operational ongoing affairs. And, as I said, that big job waiting for us, bringing a series of regulations into line, the need to react to events would be prevented if in this way they tied their hands to the Prime Minister by making commitments to the vice presidents. It is necessary to clearly share the powers between the Assembly and the Government and these solutions that have been given in the bill are good, and these solutions in the amendment I am afraid are reminded of some solutions that were earlier and which talk about the spirit of unity of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15315	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I remind the heads of parliament that the meeting in the president's office is in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15316	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd just like to draw attention to a few things about this. You see, we have a constitutional standard that says the government is made up of presidents, vice presidents and ministers. The title above Article 12 says – Prime Minister, the title above Article 13 says – Deputy Prime Minister, the title above Article 14 says – ministers. You should have defined whether, when it comes to vice presidents and ministers, you would have to use a single or multiple, because if you went to the minister with the plural, then that mass should have been in the previous member, but good. What is the purpose of this amendment and what does this member regulate? I must warn you, Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has a clear standard. She says this: ′′ Organisation and way of working and deciding the government are governed by law and rules of procedure. ′′ In this way the founder told us the following – and the organisation and way of work and decision-making is a question that should be regulated by law, and it is the law on government. Certain issues of organisation, modes of work and decision-making should be regulated by the Serbian Government's Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must be in agreement with this law, because it is the basis for its adoption to be obtained in this law, the government law. So there must be a provision. However, this amendment does not prejudge the solutions because it does not use the term ′′ jurisdiction, but uses the word ′′deligà, which can also be interpreted as an area. So it's like a set of questions, an area etc. I must remind you, earlier, when the government of the Republic of Serbia was elected, when a number of vice-presidents were elected, then the prime minister, when he presented and proposed the government's composition, told the vice-president both for the economy and for the area of economic relations, the vice-president and the one for the field of state administration, and for social activities, depending on whether there were three vice-presidents in the government or four or five, but there were cases that we had one and six vice-presidents in 1992 and 1993. It shall then be made clear to the Members of the People, who shall follow the area of the Vice-President. But what bothers me, to be clear, what's in the proposed article and what's in the proposed amendment is the same matter, only that there's a difference between termological stuff and a vision, but what you wrote in Section 1 is incorrect. You say here – the Deputy Prime Minister directs and synchronises the work of the authorities of the state administration. Let me remind you, Article 94. Serbia's constitution says - state administration jobs are carried out by ministries. Many times, as the authorities of the state administration, not only do the ministries appear, so it would be much more correct if you used it here – harmonizes the work of the ministries; then you locate which is the domain of its interest. I'm telling you this on the basis of experience, because the government, or all governments, have the need for vice presidents to get some responsibilities, to coordinate the work of three or four ministries that are wider in some area, so that there's no need for the Deputy Prime Minister to call the first-degree authorities of the state administration or the organisation, or I don't know who on the side, and that even the resolution minister, who would have to ask himself first, doesn't know. So I think this formula proposed by the amendment, although it probably suffers some criticism, is much better than this formulation that is in your first position. He's talking about the workaround, meaning something widest, and it's more like a statement to the MPs in the election for what any vice president in the government is in charge of. I have to tell you, if you think that this amendment and what I said about how it works can block the government's work, it won't block it, be sure, the government's work, but since you've defined yourself as a new law, we've been involved, so if you've gone to interventions, we wouldn't have submitted amendments, because changing every law isn't exactly a simple job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15317	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 15 in Chapter 2, which speaks of the government's mandate, has the title – The Government's election and reads: "The Government is elected by the National Assembly after each constitution, on the proposal of the candidate for Prime Minister. "Station 2: "The National Assembly decides on the government's choice in general. "Station 3: "The government was elected by a majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. "We have tabled an amendment that changes attitude 1 and reads: "The government is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal by the candidate for Prime Minister, in accordance with the Constitution," and paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted. This is the first member of the Bill on Government, where the Government Act wants to edit what the National Assembly is doing. There are two other members who even talk about the deadlines within which the Assembly should vote. That's inadmissible. What makes me wonder is that we agree on behalf of the promoters, as MPs who certainly know that there is no need in the government law, nor should it stand as the National Assembly decides on the Government. This is the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So the message isn't just that you have one extra attitude in your membership. The message is – this lawmaker wants something. What does he want? To order the Parliament to vote on the government. He can't. Our intention is to just say that we understand, not to read it as an evil intention. So, certainly, we do not read this as the proposal's intention, nor do we want to believe that there are people in this government who believe that the government should prescribe to the Assembly whether they will vote in general and how they will vote, most of the total number of MPs, or how the government feels they should. These two attitudes must be deleted. In paragraph 1, we change, it stands – after each constitution. It's a bad choice to define the government after each constitution, because it's only one of the cases when the National Assembly can choose the government. So, you here, by the bill of law, are preventing the government from establishing itself without new choices, which are examples in parliamentary practice. I'm just asking -- is there room for this to be read as a ban on government reconstruction? So the government can only be chosen after the Assembly is established. What's the name of the process when we choose the government for reconstruction? Is the reconstruction because the minister resigned, whether the reconstruction is because the parliamentary majority has changed, whether the reconstruction is because the Prime Minister wants the coordinator, for example, for European integration, so he comes to the Assembly – good day, I would do this, and we would all say – come on. So, I'm asking, can this really be read that you can't choose the government except after every constitution of the National Assembly? This shows you how one extremely clumsy language formulation in the law can produce very serious problems. The proposed text is, in addition, evidence of the deconstitution of the Constitution because it amends the constitutional principle. When you read the law, you will see that for some reason the Proposer is very far away from using the words "in accordance with the Constitution". I can understand it, she doesn't like it or him, who writes it, but instead she can't misrecord the Constitution, and in particular she can't change the Constitution with the guaranteed rights of the Assembly to decide how the government is elected. It's two things that are being defended here only by the existence of good intentions. I'm saying again, I don't question the existence of good intentions, but I'm reading what it says. Without a doubt, you had good intentions when you proposed these provisions, you will suffer huge criticism for enrolling such provisions and, with that Article 6, this Article 15 must be evaluated on constitutionality. The Constitutional Court must assess whether the government law has the right to say that the government is elected after every constitution of the Assembly. You know it doesn't. That makes it easier for you to accept this amendment and get everyone out of trouble together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15319	Thank you. Anyone else answer for an amendment to Article 15? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarović, and then the Prophet of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. It's a proposal for a government law. This amendment requires that the position of the 2nd member be changed, i.e. to change the text of the oath of the members of the Government before the National Assembly. If my amendment were accepted, Article 2 would read: "On the day of my election, the members of the government take an oath before the National Assembly, which reads: I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government responsibly and resiliently." This amendment removes the misunderstanding from the bill when sworn in. We've had problems with the moment before when a member of the government needs to take an oath and from what point on, his term begins. We had a situation that Mr. Goran Pitic was acting as a member of the government, although he did not take an oath, he did so only after a few months. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the question of what the oath is. Were all those acts signed by Goran Pitic before he signed the oath valid, were they qualified later, and from what point was he actually a minister? I think, at the very least, it's unserious to let similar things happen in the next period. By accepting this amendment, this possibility would be removed. Secondly, this article states that the government's mandate runs from taking an oath before the National Assembly. We know ourselves that, in his own explanation, the government is now saying that, of course, the mandate of the entire government is moving from that moment on; you are also aware that later, if the political moment and situation, or the needs of those who have a majority in this Parliament, are so sought and demanded, very easily, as in the previous period, there may be an interpretation that at that moment will correspond to the parliamentary majority and that what it is now writing and what you are declaring in this debate can be very easily crushed. The second part to be amended by this amendment is the text of the oath, as it is set up, where someone swears by his honor, swears allegiance to the Republic of Serbia. These are some, it showed time, extremely stretching concepts. Some, behold, swore with honor when they took an oath as a messenger of the people. There were really very bad examples in the previous period. We even had a vice-president of the government who was caught in the act as a representative of the foreign intelligence service handing over certain information, and you know that this, too, I can't say to him, sir, but that this person, a moral freak, swore allegiance to this state, swore her own honor, and it's evident that such a person has no honor, so it's absurd to swear here by oath of such people to honor and summon. I think it is much better that we stick to this House of the Constitution and the Law, that those elected, whether for the President or Vice-President of the Government or for the Ministers, swear to uphold the absolute Constitution and the law in their work, and that the duties of a member of the Government will be held accountable and secure. In that case, we won't have the possibility that if there is a violation of the Constitution or the law, these people will respond. You know very well that there is no court of honor or any court that would affect someone's conscience, but there are regular courts that could perform this function. Then, in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, it is totally unacceptable that you try to use the law of someone who has a conscience and honor or does not have a natural thing. For those who have conscience and honor, this law will mean nothing, for they will feel it themselves. For those of you who have conscience and honor, they don't even have what you're going to write here that someone should swear with honor will certainly mean nothing. Therefore, I suggest you accept this amendment. I think it's much more realistic, that the situation in the country is more appropriate, the political moment and the development of democracy is currently with us. So let's get rid of more of these moral and quasimoral flossules, let the ministers stick to the Constitution and the law, let them perform their duty responsibly and safely, and I think we'll all be in a much better situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15321	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15322	Ladies and gentlemen, the government law is certainly one of the key laws. I think that fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority, and also representatives of the government, although the minister is not present, have realised that the SRS parliamentary group has approached this law extremely seriously and that it is our intention to regulate the law through these amendments, that tomorrow, in the application of this law, this or some other government would have no problem. I believe our intention is as well understood as some amendments have already been accepted. I'm sure Minister Loncar, when he hears this argument and this argument, and this amendment will accept, that this law would really make sense. It's not just the text of the oath that's disputed here. It's a questionable term. Article 16 states that the government's mandate is to take an oath before the National Assembly. When it's going to be taking an oath, it doesn't say. It's really something that needs to be determined. No one who would possibly dispute this amendment to say that it is understood. It can't be understood, it has to be known. A colleague, Sarovic, has just presented the example of former Minister Goran Pitic. The colleagues in the assembly remember that it was both funny and sad when our colleague Milorad Mircic came out for this pay phone and asked the secretary then if he claims that Goran Pitic is the minister. It turned out that he had not taken an oath until that moment and that he had served as minister for seven months unauthorized. For that reason, we suggested that this whole article be changed and we said it should be. We said that in point one, it should be said that on the day of their election, the members of the government take an oath before the National Assembly that reads... So, on the day of the election, on the day of the government's constitution, an oath should be made and both the President and the Ministers can take office to which the National Assembly chooses them. I really don't see what anyone in this room could object to this formulated position of Article 1 of this 16th Law. We further suggested that the text of the oath be changed. The bill states: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law and the duty of a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment. "You know, this may sound like some big saying, some significant oath, but believe me, if you look at the essence, it doesn't mean anything, and it doesn't commit anyone to anything. We therefore suggested that the text of the oath read: "I swear that in my work I will abide by the constitution and the law and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with responsibility and security. "What does this mean? If a member of the Government adheres to the Constitution and the law, of course, that he will do his job honorably and morally, because if he does not violate the Constitution and the law, he must fit into this general provision of honor and morality. So, the bottom line is that we have to say that a member of the government will adhere to the Constitution and the law and that the duties of a member of the government are carried out responsibly and securely. Let us not with this proposal of the Government, which is too wide and which is undefined, because what does that mean – I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia? We have no doubt that anyone, and anyone sitting in this assembly, who is today or will be a member of the government or has been, is not loyal to the Republic of Serbia, but it is probably present in every man, in every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. However, the minister has certain duties and must swear before this Parliament that these duties will be carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. That is why I call on the minister, the colleague will probably pass it on to him or she will see it in a stenogram, and I call on you fellow Members of the Assembly to accept this amendment. So we haven't changed anything conceptually, but we just want whoever we choose here to be a member of the government, who we vote for in this House, and swears that this duty will be carried out in accordance with the law adopted in this House, in accordance with the Constitution. There is no reason why this amendment should not be accepted. I urge you once again to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party for a better text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15323	The People's MP Dragoslav Milkovic, then MP Zoran Krasic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment to Article 16(2), which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, in front of the Serbian Radical Party. This amendment should be accepted by all, as it is a matter of government and all state officials having to comply with the Constitution and the law and the duties of a member of the Government with responsibility and security. Why do I say this – responsible and safe? You've passed a lot of laws, Europe makes you do it. Are you building a basis for their achievement in everyday life? Not yet. I understand the minister's busyness over business, due to Darwin, due to new methods in the school's systematic examinations, due to poor response by voluntary blood donors, because of 063, because of sugar and scholarships, because of Bosniak language and for many other reasons. That's why in a hurry, by applying Resavia-prescribing school, you're proposing bad and unreasonable laws, with a lot of foreign terms. Gentlemen legislators, enter into this law and all other laws, but more specifically, instruments that will truly have responsibility for irresponsibility, responsibility for pranks, responsibility for corruption, responsibility for affairs, etc. For example, former Serbia-Montenegro foreign minister, as a member of the International Commission for the Balkans, signed for Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Serbia-Montenegro's current foreign minister said the English minister that Serbs had committed genocide against the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija. One apologizes to the Croats, said the Serbs caused the war. Others apologize to Muslims that Serbs are guilty of war. Who has empowered them, and in whose name do they do so? Everyone should be responsible for what they're doing. Otherwise, you are free of imitation of English, Austrian and any other legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15325	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15326	I think the promoter should accept this amendment, and I'll state the reasons. In accordance with the Constitution, the amendment has been specified since the term of office and when a member of the Government takes an oath. I have to say, we've got some things in place that we don't respect here. What we call an oath should, in fact, be a solemn statement, because oaths are made according to some emotions, according to something imaginary, and members of the Government, the President of the Republic and all officials who are subject to that obligation should, as a rule, make a solemn statement and that statement should be consistent with those values promoted by the Constitution. As a result, this amendment only potentiates the values set out in the Constitution and where there is a link between that value and the holder of state functions. So, in the text of this amendment-proposed oath, there's exactly what's in Article 53. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – everyone is obliged to adhere to the Constitution and the law and everyone is obliged to perform a public function in a safe and responsible manner. He who belongs to the executive government is a member of the government, he gives a solemn statement confirming his commitment to respect the Constitution and the law and that he will securely, diligently and responsibly perform his public office. In that sense, there should be this solemn statement called an oath here. What the Government has proposed, of course, is also about security, honesty, constitutionality and legality, but also about something that does not exist in the Constitution and falls within the domain of imaginary categories, which is loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. Does this concern loyalty to the care of the republican form of government and state organisation in the Republic of Serbia? What else does it apply to? What values should a person be obedient to, so he willingly gives up something and accepts something that is imposed upon him? What's that got to do with him? The Republic of Serbia? The Republic of Serbia is not imposed on anyone. You know, as for the text of a solemn statement, that I don't use examples from some other states, in some countries, government members do, depending on religion that is ruling, one Christian oath, say, like Greece. In Western Europe, there are countries where one who has been elected a member of the government, the president of the state, in addition to the solemn statement he gives, swears and has some church features. Of course, I do not plead to it, since this is the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution has prescribed it as prescribed, but the very formulation of commitment to the Republic of Serbia does not really mean anything; because how is it that one who is a monarch swears allegiance to the Republic of Serbia? We now have people elected in the government, members of the government, and according to political belief are monarchs and you provoke them when you force them to swear their loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. I think the termology of a solemn statement has been mischosen because I can't call this an oath. I'm not going to point out, since my predecessors have cited concrete examples, where it's getting really pointless. In some officials' statements, it becomes really pointless. The foreign minister is, after the President of the Republic, another person representing one country abroad. The Minister of Ecology cannot represent the country abroad. The foreign minister is, as a rule, in some countries and vice-president of the government. It's a person who knows abroad. If his statements are not in line with the government's policy, they are not in line with what is the apparent interest of public opinion and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then the question is what he swore, whether he is bound by the oath. That is why I think that this amendment, which the Serbian Radical Party has proposed, in accordance with the Constitution, is more realistic, and yet it leaves it to anyone to morally assess whether someone adheres to what has been promised, in one part; in the other part, where the law and law apply, that statement almost has no influence, because the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are subject to the provisions of all other laws, so if they have not worked in accordance with the law and the Constitution, or have been unwittingly working, to other forms of responsibility, regardless of what at one point they have immunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15327	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, so Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 16 shows the nature of the proposed government law, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a number of amendments trying to regulate the legislative proposal more precisely and clearly, as it is a very important matter, which should be fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, submitted an amendment to Article 16(2) where he asked for that position to be changed and said: "On the day of his election, the members of the government take an oath before the National Assembly, which reads: I swear that I will adhere to the Constitution and the law in my work, and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government responsibly and securely. "As for Article 16 of the Law, which the Government has proposed to the National Assembly, paragraph 2, it is said – I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge my honour to respect the Constitution and the law and the duty of the government members with confidence, responsibility and commitment. This Article 16 The draft law in paragraph 2 is not well-conceived. counterpart Sarovic has submitted an amendment, i.e. the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 16(2), and counterpart Krasic has just said a lot of reasons why an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party should be accepted. When it comes to taking an oath in the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that the connotation and what each of us needs to be very important, just that act, as Zoran Krasic said about this speaker, instead of saying the oath, can be said in a solemn statement and that it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that the government will accept this amendment by Mr Sarovic and the SRS MP club, because it fully corrects the shortcomings of Article 16(2), which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15329	I thank Mr. Djordjevic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we 249 MPs, as many of us as there are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, can argue about the text of the oath each in its own way, taking into account and considering what is moral and what are essential and moral values, and what is its negation. For all honest, honest and responsible people, and especially for people who believe, that's something that's not asked as a question. No matter how much we argue as political insinuators, we must stick to those basic moral postulates and what the Constitution commits us to, as the highest legal act of this country, and the laws that are passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have reported that by making a little more argument, in my own way and from my own corner, I support what he wrote in his amendment, distinguished counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, because here is the most important fact when something happened. Not that the first position of Article 16, as the promoter has given it, is confusing, but can indeed be interpreted differently. You'll see, everyone who reads, and a million times read that sentence and that first attitude, that it's not defined. So, the Mandate of the Government runs from taking an oath to the National Assembly. ′′ Kolega Sarovic is much more precise, and in accordance with experience, and especially with the negative one when it comes to Pitic (but who knows how many such cases could and hypothetically could have happened), he said and suggested that this attitude be changed and that it read: ′′ On the day of their election, the members of the government take an oath before the National Assembly which reads... ′′ This first position, as you have written it, this sentence – the mandate of the government runs from taking an oath to the National Assembly, does not mean anything in the essential determination of the moment when it happens. A colleague, Sarovic, made it clear and left the possibility, because it is indeed happening, that some ministers resigned, and many had no regard and conscience, and many did not follow the Constitution and the law, so they did not resign, and they should have. So, counterpart Sarovic leaves the possibility, if the government's reconstruction happens, that's what happened in this Kostunica government, and to change the minister, that he should do it in front of the National Assembly the day the assembly chooses him. The text of the oath itself, as I said at the outset, can be interpreted differently for each of us 249 MPs in the Assembly. When it comes to something subtle, and I think that this text of the proposed oath is exactly that, unlike the essence that Mr. Sarovic has been making, which is that the text should read – I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law, and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government responsibly and resiliently, all of this and any possible glorification, or in order for someone else to put it together, raises doubts as to why something else is being added, when this is actually the essence of the choice of one member of the government, one responsible politician, the representative of the executive authority. This whole thing doesn't have to mean anything. If, as Nemanja Sarovic suggests, he has committed himself to respecting the Constitution and the law, then it is understood that he will be both honorable and moral and safe, because as a member of the government then, a question arises, which is not. There have been such cases that many predecessors took an oath and committed themselves to it, and they have shown that they are both dishonest and immoral. He mentioned counterpart Sarovic of the famous Perisic case and his meeting with the CIA chief for the Balkans Najbor at a bar in Ibarska masteral and state secret. The scandal that took place is not only a matter of this handful, or a party, which actually did not exist, and whose president he was, but the full responsibility for this was to be borne by the DOS government and the entire cabinet of the time, because the Deputy Prime Minister did one of the biggest crimes in the country. The very text of the oath must always be conjectured so that it contains two words: the Constitution and the law. If anyone respects the Constitution, or a elected member of the Government, which is what we MPs and the Constitution must do, as well as the law, it is unnecessary to add anything in this regard. (President: Time.) I'm done. The statute of municipalities and cities predicted that the elected, for the first time now, the president, or mayors, took an oath. When we had the first session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly and when Mr. Veroljub Stevanović was elected by the citizens of Kragujevac to the post, the session was to be concluded by the fact that we committees had already taken the predetermined text of the oath, and he was not scheduled to do so on the agenda that day, and that the mayor would do so; this I suggested to him on behalf of the Serb Radical Party's parliamentary group, and we didn't have the text of the oath. We agreed very quickly to do it through one sentence that contained only this - I swear that I will comply with the Constitution and the law to carry out my obligations. That's why it would be better, especially because of this first attitude, where exactly the time is set when it happens, to accept the amendments to fellow Members of the Commission, Nemanje Sarovic. For all elected representatives of the Government, respect for the Constitution and the law and trying to preserve national and state unity is imperative, which is not showing, of course, not the predecessors, nor all the members of this government, but we Serbian radicals have advocated it since we are a parliamentary party and we think that this is, in fact, the key to everything and that is the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15331	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian Radical Party MP Mr Nemanja Sarovic has submitted an amendment to Article 16 which is very specific and explains this part concerning the start of the government's mandate and the taking of an oath. You remember that in that government after the ′′buldozer of the revolution, one of the ministers was in the minister's portfolio for six months without taking an oath or a solemn statement, or whatever it is called. Therefore, he could for six months, without swearing allegiance to the Republic of Serbia, do whatever comes to his mind, and after that, as with the peace of mind – everything you have sinned does not apply to you, and from now on you are a minister in the right sense and you can do it. It's about Mr. Pitic. So, for six months, Mr. Pitic was a minister without taking an oath. On the other hand, this oath for individual ministers in the government since 2000, and it certainly means very little in 2003. The first part of the oath proposed to Article 16 says - I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia," and the money and the Republic of Serbia in the Euroaxis bank, through which the National Savings Office opens. I don't want to mention the name of the minister who did it. "I pledge my loyalty to Serbia," and four billion dollars found in Cyprus disappeared on the Virgin Islands. ′′I swear on the loyalty of the Republic; let's say, sugar affair, Erikson affair, water affair, I mean an affair related to "Knjiz Miloš". "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic" – one of the federal ministers who swore allegiance to the Republic of Kosovo to the Shiptars. As much as he took it, I don't know. "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic," and one of the current federal ministers, he intends, at least said on TV, to help the first to kidnap Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, oaths or solemn statements, or whatever it is called, will have that weight and be as important to the man who lays it or who gives it as much character and humanity as it has in him. Therefore, this amendment by MP Nemanje Sarovic should be accepted because it is much more comprehensive – I swear that in my work I will adhere to the Constitution and the law and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government responsibly and securely. You can write him an oath on three sides, but if he is given the opportunity to open the National Savings Bank in Serbia through Euroaxis, he will certainly, if he has no character, do so. On the other hand, in an explanation of why amendments to the People's MP are not accepted, the government says - the mandate begins on the day of the oath. As a rule, the oath will take place on election day. And what if it's not by the book? And what if it's past the rules, then today's election, and the day after tomorrow, it's just supposed to take an oath, and one of the ministers hurts a leg far away, so he can't even come that day? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic be adopted and that this text of the law be improved in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15333	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15334	Dear People's MPs, the text of the oath, if it is not observed essentially what the oaths and words are spoken for when the oath is taken, and apparently, seeing things take place in the state of Serbia back several years, and what is happening today, are at least appropriate or bear responsibility for those whose functions are most in the state of Serbia, including members of the government and the Prime Minister, their obligations and responsibilities are in the hierarchy in the state of Serbia, and should be their sacrifice and for the interests of the state and the people. In this explanation, why the amendment of MP Nemanja Sarovic, in addition to respecting the Constitution and the law, is not accepted, it is said that this text proposed stems from moral norms and feelings of adherence to the Republic of Serbia. What moral norms can this government, in its explanation, speak of if all this is happening as it happens, both in the government itself and in the ministries and across the Serbian state? The constitution is trampled on every step, not to mention the violation of positive legal regulations, non-compliance and non-compliance with the law. And who's obliged to enforce the laws, so they're taking care of their implementation? The government, headed by the president, and ministers. Looking at the real and real state of affairs, the humiliation of Serbian citizens at every turn, the failure of all state institutions, perhaps in the text of the oath, since citizens have already lost faith in the legal order, because they cannot protect their naked rights, which are at every turn at risk, should be introduced, when there is no respect for the law, to swear briefly, as Bishop Nikolai, if they have morals at all, said - is not stealing the state. That's the only thing that could help. If they could maintain that while in power, while in charge, it would be enough for all citizens of Serbia. I must refer to the text of Article 16, and the first position the Government has proposed, in the last words – safe, responsible and committed. What does that mean – committed? This was sometimes spoken in legal order or laws – accessible. I will give an example because of residents of the entire area of Usce, which is the territory of the Kraljevo municipality, which is the largest in Serbia's territory. The territory of the entire area of Ustasha takes up a third of the municipality of Kraljevo. With severe torment, on a proposal from the local communities, the SRS parliamentary group was able to reach the conclusion of SO Kraljevo on the opening of two out-of-the-art schools in the mouth in the autumn. The conclusion was to be carried out by the president of the municipality with the Head of Education of the Rasko District and to deliver to the Minister a complete draft on meeting the conditions for the opening of those departments. And the conditions are the following, short and clear: this Usce is far from the Kings for over 50 kilometers, not to mention other populated places; there are two elementary schools, there are finished founders for this year over 200; this area is extremely poor, the population is constantly moving from that space to the city of Kralje and suburban settlements. Unfortunately, neither the president of the municipality has done anything to make this happen, and even more tragically, the minister of education with his deputies has done anything about it. One delegation addressed Deputy Milos Jankovic in February, with a complete elaborate on meeting the conditions. There's a higher education building, there's students who finish eighth grade, there's a chamber that can teach 80% of the general classes. To this day there is no response from the competent ministry, but that is why Minister of Education Vuksanovic and last night on TV Kraljevo says he has agreed with FK General Partizan to remove the fence between the audience and players on the ground. His preoccupations are football courts and games, derbys, not that those children have the right to attend primary and secondary schools in normal conditions, as well as all children throughout Serbia. No, Minister Vuksanovic, elite schools, or schools that have priority on certain conditions. All children in Serbia must have about the same conditions to school, as well as their parents, so that the state allows them to do so. I hope the ruling majority will allow this item to be placed on the agenda on Tuesday, i.e. that Minister Vuksanovic and his work are being discussed here by MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15335	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15336	Ladies and gentlemen, before we explain our amendment, I would like to say that the DS Parliament Club will support MP Nemanje Sarovic's amendment in the voting day, because we think this argument is better than it is in the proposed text. Our amendment concerns the position of the 4th same member of the 16th to discuss the start and termination of the government's mandate. The bill states: "The new government is elected according to the same procedure as the government is chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly". We propose that the position be deleted because you do not have a new, newer, older, older and newest government, simply, all cases of the 3rd position on when the government ceases its mandate, which it says, with the end of the National Assembly's term of office, the vote of mistrust, the resignation of the government, the vote of no confidence of the Prime Minister, the resignation of the Prime Minister, has been defined by the Constitution, and the deadlines for the government's election following the resignation have been defined by the members who follow the law that is proposed. The government is always chosen the same way. There is no new and old government, one government has suspended its mandate under legally prescribed conditions, the government is elected under the same procedure as the previous government. What is interesting for these Articles 16, 17 and 18, which we will talk about on the subject of the amendment, is the matter of the government's mandate. There is one intention, quite clearly, in this proposal that the motioner deals with the government's mandate, because two things are mixed. The government's mandate begins with the oath of elected members of the Government, elected by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and ceases under the conditions for the termination of the term of office of the Government defined. However, the law deals with the capacity of the government's mandate in certain cases, meaning what a mandate is when the government resigns and what is not a mandate. That shouldn't stand in the law. I will give you an example: suppose this law applies, and we have our current Government of the Republic of Serbia; what is its mandate? I argued, while we supported the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, that the government is in the capacity of mandate as long as 126 MPs are present. I claimed it then, I say it now. I've always been against defining the capacity of the mandate. You claim the same thing, but you want to define the capacity of the mandate and then you open up a space for illustration. This government is, if you look at the current support, the non-parliamentary government, it has only one party that would be parliamentary to what it is. Other parties in the government would no longer be parliamentary parties. We have a Parliament in which we have a representative of a parliamentary party who has not participated in the elections and one party in the construction that has MPs, but is not yet registered, but we have in the media. What about applying what you write about mandates in this particular case? It is absolutely pointless that, beyond what is written in our Constitution, you speak here, therefore, of the start and termination of the government's mandate and of the capacity of the government's mandate, to define the difference between a minister in resignation or a minister in resolution and a minister who is not. The minister is a minister. As long as he's not relieved, he's a minister. Otherwise, real situations will arise for you in Serbia, such as this one now, where they have appeared to you in the Parliament of parties that have not participated in the elections and where it can be done, in my opinion, in comparison with whether the Government has the capacity, based on how much support public opinion is given to individual parties in the government. So, to be perfectly clear, I advocate the principle: the government has a mandate while it has 126 MPs. What is the support, what will happen to this support, as it will change, it is a completely different story, but by putting provisions on the special properties of the government's mandate, you are opening a space for poor perfection, events in Serbia, when it comes to supporting any government, not only the one currently enjoying the support of 126 MPs. In any case, the final position should be deleted – that the new Government is chosen by the same procedure as the Government is chosen after the Assembly is established, because we believe it is quite obvious that it is an amendment that improves this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15338	The title above article 17 reads: "Governmental authority and government member after the end of the government's mandate". This is what I was talking about. How can something have authority if his term of office has ceased, how can you by law define special powers of something where the term of office has ceased? This is the idea I was talking about in defense of the previous amendment that a position should be deleted – the new government is elected... I will read to you a member as proposed, so: êGovernment to which the term of office has ceased can only be done current affairs and cannot propose to the National Assembly laws and other general acts, nor to bring regulations, unless their adoption is related to the legal deadline or requires the needs of the state, interests of defence or natural, economic or technical accident. ′′ Either he can file drafts of the law or he can't. Do not, reshaping the constitutional principle that speaks of what the Government is doing in the resignations, fully language and legally incorrectly enter provisions in this 1st position, which cannot stand. The second view reads: "It cannot appoint officials in the authorities of the state administration, and in the exercise of the founding rights of the Republic of Serbia it can only appoint or agree to appoint acting directors and members of the board of directors and supervisors. "This can't be done, you don't have a foothold anywhere. You will determine whether or not the Government will... for which you say her term of office has ceased, and after you speak of the government in resignation, you say, she did not stop the term of office, but ended the term of office on the basis of Article 93 of Title 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't going anywhere. You can't prescribe to the government whether or not they're going to name a functioner at some point or not. But I will return to my mandate. Here is the wrong approach to attempt to define the capacity of the mandate. If you're a government-led politician, then you know the measure of your capacity and what it is that you can do in the state as Prime Minister, which is the price of a political project, and what it is you can't do. It is foolish to put a provision in the law that you warn the Prime Minister or the Minister not to appoint officials when they are in resignation. The desire to make things too normal very often leads to much more damage than good. The third stance says: "The government to which the term of office has ceased cannot propose the disbanding of the National Assembly to the President of the Republic. "She or she has already done so, if she has stopped the mandate, if she has resigned, why would she propose disbanding the National Assembly. If there is a vote of mistrust, how can he suggest disbanding the National Assembly? These are the constitutional conditions, and the unnecessarily proposed loops into something that can't happen. The government that stopped the mandate, it stopped on some basis. I will return to the previous member, therefore, when the motionary defines when the government ceases its mandate: or has suspended its mandate to the National Assembly – how to propose that the Assembly be dissolved; or if no confidence has been voted – how to propose that the Assembly be dissolved; or if the Assembly has resigned – how to propose that the Assembly be dissolved; or if no trust has been voted on by the Prime Minister – and here, how to propose that the Assembly be disbanded. Who did it occur to make a position – the government whose term of office could not propose to the President of the Republic the disbanding of the Assembly? She can't do it by definition, it's simple, here's what I get to say Serbian -- by difolt, whatever you say. Last position: A government member whose term of office has ceased following the end of the government's term of office has the same powers as a member of the government who resigned. ′′ You are constantly messing with the capacity of the government's mandate. Unnecessarily. You want to standard something that's a matter of political consciousness, of political maturity. The president of a government who doesn't know what he's capable of doing in Serbia, to change, doesn't need this. He doesn't need a norm that doesn't make any sense absolutely. Why do you want to do that? This is unclear to me because you know very well that it is essentially comments on the period of the previous government, which has been commented on everything and everything. That's not true. So you have mechanisms now, as someone who had the right to make media comments and critics, to prove whether those comments were right or wrong. It's not solved. Just because you're convinced that you know whether or not you were wrong about the government of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic doesn't mean anything at all. So you challenged the government's capacity to do something. That government has finished its work. None of what she did in the mandate in which you challenged her capacity was illegal. You didn't use mechanisms and instruments to prove anything was illegal. In Serbia, it is a custom for prejudice and impatience to form a policy for a person, no law can solve it. We can solve this for those of us who deal with politics in Serbia, but don't do so by introducing illiterate provisions into a law that should be organised by an institution that is ours, whoever is the Prime Minister and whoever makes up the majority in this assembly when choosing that government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15339	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 17? I'm taking a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 172 MPs attend the afternoon session. Please establish a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. We are continuing the debate on the amendment to Article 17. People's MP Radosavljevic was reported, followed by MP Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Article 17 is again one of the proposals that is absolutely unacceptable for the DS, because we find it unacceptable that the proposed Article 17 defines what the Government is doing in the event of the end of the term of office. Anyone who has any knowledge of the right is clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been electing a new government to carry out tasks that are within its jurisdiction and there is no one who can do so to the government, for any activity or any task defined by the Constitution, to deny the right to carry out the job until the new one's election. What is certainly a culmination is the famous attitude 3 that says that the government to which the term of office has ceased cannot propose disbanding the National Assembly to the President of the Republic. Article 16(3) says: "The government ends the mandate with the end of the mandate of the National Assembly, the vote of mistrust, the resignation of the government, the vote of mistrust to the Prime Minister and the resignation of the Prime Minister. "I don't understand what you wanted with the attitude of the third proposed member, which he serves, if he in his own right is being undermined in Article 16. I really don't understand why the legislator stubbornly insists on the proposed members, when the DS makes a clear and loud statement of what the problem is. I see no reason, if it is obvious that something has been done is wrong, if it is evident that something is contrary to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, why does the Proposer continue to insist that the existing solution in the bill remains in force, not accepting an amendment that far better, clearer and more precisely defines this matter. What's surprising to me, no matter what we've received today as DS, is a request from the Ministry's people to bear in mind that today the minister has been prevented... I respect that the minister has been prevented, but no doubt the Democratic Party has seen this three days from the minister. The minister sat there, wisely silent, and whatever the Democratic Party said as an objection to this law, the minister didn't even realize it, so I can draw the conclusion that, as far as DS is concerned, it has a folk saying that it says "sits tree to tree". About the same was our minister who proposed this law. Whether he was in the O.R. or not, we get the same thing. In any case, I appeal once again to his colleagues sitting here to accept the amendment to Article 17, because it is far better and more precise and harmonizes with the Constitution this proposed text of Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15342	I ask the MPs to take care of their expressions. Do not insult the MPs of any party, nor the MPs of the DS. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15343	Ladies and gentlemen, the member to whom our amendment applies is under the heading ′′Reliable to the Government. Distrust to the Prime Minister. The proposed text reads: "At least 20 MPs can be proposed to the National Assembly to vote non-trust to the government. "Station 2 reads: "From submitting the proposal to voting on non-trust, it cannot go less than three days or more than 15 days. "This attitude is disputed for us and we believe that it should be disputed for all MPs of the National Assembly, because the government law in this position actually prescribes the time of the assembly debate. So this solution is different from the Constitution of the prescribed solution when it must be put on the agenda to discuss the government's trust, but how long and when it will be the day of voting, whether it will be after four days or after 20 days, it is at the National Assembly. The government law, regardless of all the understanding of good intentions, cannot make it clear that if there is an obvious problem with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it must be done within a certain period. This must be left to the National Assembly because MPs decide on the time needed to discuss each item of the adopted agenda. So, the Rules of Procedure determine whether we will be doing business time or we will have a proposal for each MP to have a debate in principle run double, triple, quadruple, whatever time, of the five hours currently enrolled for the total time of the principle debate. This must be left to the National Assembly for decision and that is why it cannot be in government law. What we're trying to say is that, regardless of the obvious good intentions of knowing the exact time limit, it's a greater shame that the government law prescribes deadlines than that of the Parliament of Government for more than 20 days. The Justice Committee heard arguments that it could happen to discuss government for a month or a half in the assembly and that this is the cause of destabilising political opportunities in the country. If you have a government and a congregation majority who is not aware of it, then you cannot, in particular by law on government, prescribe responsibility for the lost term, if it is obvious that there is no congregation majority. I repeat, I also said that in the debate on the previous amendment, the government has a mandate as long as 126 MPs are present. Any kind of comment on the capacity of the mandate is harmful, wrong, invalid and can serve only political campaigns, so whoever acts as government or whoever makes up the parliamentary majority. I hope that, on behalf of the affairs we have taken over as MPs, whether we are members of the ruling majority or members of the opposition, this assembly will accept our amendment. The second part of the amendment is to delete the words "in the same period" in the last position, and concerns the conditions on how the motion to vote for mistrust is decided by the Prime Minister. Both processes, a vote of no confidence to the entire government and a vote of no confidence to the Prime Minister, must be left to the Assembly for a decision. The way it will be done is a procedural question and concerns the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of any other regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15344	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15345	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the title above article 18. The bill regulates the situation when the assembly procedure raises the issue of trust to the government by the MPs. What is controversial in this article is that the government wants to take over the regulation of those things that are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Assembly. Here is not a question of the congregation's majority or the congregation's minority, it is a question of the Assembly as a legislative body that should not allow the government to impose a legal solution, which we must adopt in parliament, which would regulate the procedure of the National Assembly in the event of asking a question of trust with the government. The procedure for not voting with the Government and the Prime Minister has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, from 198 to 203, where the request of 20 MPs can be forwarded to the President of the National Assembly. The bill states that the proposal is to be put to the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly may be: Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Secretary of the National Assembly, Professional Service of the Assembly, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are specified to give the motion for a vote of no confidence to the Government or to the Prime Minister in writing, with an explanation, to the President of the National Assembly. It is provided that from the submission of the proposal to the non-trust vote, it cannot go beyond three or more days. However, in Article 199. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that a discussion of the government's mistrust and mistrust may begin not three and no later than 15 days ago. These are two completely different situations. The government is trying this way to oblige the Assembly to make a decision on the government's mistrust or trust within 15 days, which is completely contrary to what was regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We think that the government is trying to regulate the procedure that is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, trying to take over powers that do not belong to it under the Constitution, and should not belong to it under this government law. We think this article is 18. The proposal for a government law is totally unacceptable and that it is within the domain of jurisdiction exclusively of the National Assembly. This should be regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and possibly by the future law, which will be passed, on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15346	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly should accept this amendment because it shows that there is a principle of power-sharing and that the legislative authority is independent of the executive government, which in practice can be very difficult to achieve, but at least if for nothing else then simply because we cannot allow the bill to delete that provision that raises democratic societies in the developed world. In fact, here the legislator dared to determine what was entrusted to the National Assembly and regulated by Article 82. The Constitution, which is that the National Assembly regulates its work and organisation and the way in which the rights and duties of the MPs are exercised. People's MPs have the right to submit a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government, and the Rules of Procedure govern how a non-confidential vote will proceed and what are the deadlines for a non-confidential vote. If the Assembly that adopted this Constitution wanted to limit the National Assembly, then it would not be in Article 93, paragraphs 3 or 4, only limit the minimum legal deadline for a vote of no confidence. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says -- a vote of mistrust can only be accessed three days after the application. From where the lawmaker is entitled to include in the law a provision that is not in the Constitution and says – at least three, and not more than 15 days. The government can't propose a law to limit our discussion of the government to a certain time limit. What happens if there is no vote of mistrust within 15 days? Does the Assembly interrupt the debate or automatically approach the vote at the end of the 15th day? What if some MP didn't get his word? Who prevented the MP from carrying out his duty to represent the citizens of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The government cites suspicious reasons for the refusal of amendments; 20 MPs can propose every 20 or a month to vote non-trust, so there can be inhibition, no more ugly words in the explanation have been said, and could have been said. How can you accept, even if you belong to the ruling majority, that someone, that the Government of the Law restricts you from working in the Assembly and that you limit yourself to some self-censorship when you discuss government? I argue that it is suspicious and what the previous government has resorted to, which you will resort to on Tuesday, that it is doubtful from the view of the Constitution whether the Assembly can avoid a debate on the government's non-confidential vote, or not a debate, the Constitution says – a vote; whether the Assembly can by proposal and by majority prevent 20 MPs from putting a vote on the agenda of mistrust. I'm convinced he can't, but with our Constitutional Court, he can do anything. You are witnessing that the DOS, in its earlier composition, rejected the assembly's majority as a item of the agenda for not trusting the government, Zoran Djindjic, and therefore the vote on the government's mistrust. I know you're getting ready on Tuesday to perform the same equilibristics, to use a kind word, and I have a uglier word for it. Of course, we will appeal again to the Constitutional Court, but he did not respond to Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to remove the item from the agenda because the motion to vote for mistrust was submitted to the government by those who did not vote for the government. Shut up, Constitutional Court, and in front of such stupidity. They'll probably shut up and if you do a new stupid thing on Tuesday, so stop us from discussing it and vote for no confidence in the government. I ask you not to raise your hand automatically in the voting day, and that this amendment pass, so that, if not for others, and then for us MPs, we preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15348	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are faced today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 15 years from the renewed multi-party, with the scandal that MPs are being kidnapped, bought and on transfer and on the menu of individual Serb tycoons, or those who robbed Serbian citizens and people's torment, have become rich, like Bogoljub Karic. It's not enough that a key institution in the state is collapsing, but we're getting to Article 18. The proposal for a government law, where it is obvious either misunderstanding or indeed the wrong intention of the promoter to make it impossible for us to do so by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the president of our parliamentary group, to discuss in the constitution as long as this is necessary about the mistrust or trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I don't understand who wrote this and this sort of explanation. So, the very intention of the promoter is, in a sense, tending, you see what he says in an explanation for the refusal of the amendment Gordana Komic: ′′Mali, the Constitution sets out a number of motions to vote against the Government (20 MPs) with the constitutional obligation to place the motion to vote non-trust with the Government on the agenda of the National Assembly, which is true. There is a certain amount of malignancy in this very sentence in the explanation. Who in the name of the government, refusing this amendment, dared to say so in this way? He says: small (in a diabolical and ironic sense) is the number of messengers, and the Constitution has prescribed; the Constitution is valid. In numerous requests for a change of constitution from 1990 to today from various political factors, there is always a story that there is something missing. We, as the SRS, have come out with what key things are, and three things are, above all, those concerning property relations that need to be changed in the Constitution. In such a way as to realize that it is a small number – so what, the Constitution has defined what number it is. We are now coming to the fact that with this and this proposed member, without the adoption of this amendment, MPs and those who want to defend the government and to convince those who have submitted the initiative that it is good to make arguments. When the SRS parliamentary group submitted an initiative in 2003 to vote for no confidence in the government of Zoran Zivkovic and when the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, began to make arguments, and it was actually on tones, kilograms of material on various abuses and corruption of DS ministers, Mrs Pop-Lazic only principles and scratched those portfolios, and the debate lasted only a few days. It could continue to be that the government resorted to it, that the then, already completely decomposed, DOS furniture did not realize that it had no survival and that it had done a lot of bad things for the people and the state. They decided to stop the debate and discuss the election and the elections decided on December 28th 2003 that the SRS today has the largest number of voters. The trend continues, despite attempts at kidnapping and robbery in the Assembly and buying those who think they can be MPs and earn it, and they could never have gone past the National Assembly if they hadn't been introduced to the political party list. So, this trend continues, as regards our popularity and the president of the parliamentary group of Mr Tomislav Nikolic himself. All that it is as the promoter says, and the Constitution has specified which number, says – a small number, 20 MPs, no one can prevent everyone else when the debate is opened that if they need to talk about it for days. Therefore, it is necessary to preserve the possibility and the undeniable right that the people have given us by transferring the work of their sovereignty to us, the people's representatives, so as not to limit the discussion of trust between those who are elected here, the holders of the executive body of power, the prime minister and the members of the government. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment and thus bring this proposed text of the law into line with both the Rules of Procedure and the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15350	Thank you. Please, on the occasion of the same amendment, Zoran Krasic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15351	I would only warn the MPs and representatives of the government to read part of the reasoning of the Bill I which says – the constitutional basis. And, indeed, there you have not been wrong, the constitutional basis for this bill is in Article 91. But, Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its position 3. reads: ′′ The organisation and way of work and decision-making of the Government is governed by law and rules of procedure. What you tried to arrange for article 18 is constitutional norm. It's something the Constitution has prescribed and it's found in Article 93. The Constitution. The fact that it is referred to in Article 93 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The constitution can't be a matter of government law. It may be matter, it's more and more common to hear here a new term, a law on the National Assembly, but by law and the Constitution, it should only be matter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because there's nothing to do when it comes to Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the government law. There isn't. No, there's really nothing to do. There is no constitutional basis for meddling in this matter. However, the way the proposaler has agreed on Article 18, especially what is well noted by the amendment, that the problematic position 2, that is terrible. It says: "From the submission of the proposal to the vote of non-trust, it cannot go less than three or more days. ′′ But what it associates with this is in Article 93. The constitution, where indicated, can only be accessed after three days. So, only the vote, but someone here has expanded, says – from submitting the proposal to voting, and three to 15 more days, has taken something that also exists unconstitutional in our rules of procedure. But our Constitutional Court won't appreciate it. That's the problem. The Constitutional Court wouldn't plead for this. So, there's a whole missing topic here. Next, what is characteristic now – that you tried through the Government Bill's proposal to disabling what is in Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic. This member of the vote on non-trust and trust is by his nature an imperative norm and I must warn you that a huge mistake is being made by the National Assembly in continuity, so that I do not exaggerate, but 7-8 years, and perhaps more, which is always decided when the agenda is conjectured. Well, this is where the Constitution gave difficult conditions for something to come to the Assembly. He said - 20 MPs, 20 MPs. This is a qualified condition to bring something on the agenda, which is being debated, which there is no vote on whether we are going to discuss, whether we are not, or how it was a few years ago, when those who supported it also laugh – you cannot ask for a government shift, because you did not vote for the government. Well, that's funny. Now, there's a real problem here, what would be if every day 20 MPs submitted a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government. But, please, that situation doesn't have to worry anyone. It has a solution in the Constitution, and fear these situations those who consider it perfectly natural to break the Constitution. So what's in Article 18? The bill is not a matter that should be in law on the government of the Republic of Serbia. And what you wrote, especially it's well noted in attitude 2, that's terrible. That's terrible. It can't be the matter of this law. And, I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious, but believe me, all this talk about this bill on government is that those who are making the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have to keep in mind when making a draft; I guess now we're richer for some experience, so we know what's wrong and what shouldn't be. Well, I guess we'll just go through the elimination system and get something that's good, useful, which will respect both these principles and all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15352	Thank you. We'll take care of it. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15353	Dear fellow MPs, article 19 regulates the issue of trust with the government when the government proposes to the National Assembly that her trust be voted out. We have submitted an amendment to this article, first of all in Section 1, which we believe should read: ′′The government can ask in the National Assembly a question of its trust by a written request requiring discussion and a vote of confidence, first of all, to specify how trust is raised in the National Assembly, and much more so in order to avoid possibly such interpretation of the government law to debate and there is no Parliament. So the debate must run and attitude 1 would have to change in terms of our amendment. We haven't intervened on Section 2, where, I suppose, in a rough slip, and we missed the amendment, you suggested that from the proposal to the vote of confidence it couldn't go less than five or 20 days. I guess you weren't thinking about voting, you were thinking about putting it on the agenda. And if you mean the vote, then you're restricting parliament for as many days as he can discuss the government's trust. So if we have a discussion, it can last indefinitely, or no one can predict how long it can last. This is a rough slip, which cannot then be taken under some legal-technical order, and if the intention was exactly like this in the bill, we are absolutely against it, because in this way you are rudely involved in the work of parliament, and that does not mean that we are in favour of having the principle of completely separate authorities, legislative, executive and judicial. As we do in Parliament, we arrange it with our own rules of procedure, bearing in mind, of course, the law and the Constitution, and in no way does the Government impose on us. Item 4, which predicts that a government that is not eligible for a vote of confidence can resign, is absolutely unacceptable. I suppose we can never have to that extent an immoral government, which would be in a position not to vote her trust, and then to continue her term of office. But what experience we've had so far can be assumed and come to such a situation, and that's why we've asked the amendment to change attitude four, in the sense that the government's resolution decision has been made if most of the total number of MPs don't vote in favour of the government. So, according to automatism, the government ends the mandate, and that is to say, it is resolved. We believe that this amendment aims to introduce automation unless the government receives most votes from a total number of MPs when voting on confidence in the government, if initiated at its request. It would be a perfectly normal situation for a government that cannot provide 126 MPs who would vote on her trust to resign, that is to say, not to depend on her will. The passing of such a law on government, especially when it comes to members 18, 19, 20, 21, so all this about the confidence and resignation of the Prime Minister and the confidence of the Government, the resignation of the minister and the termination of the minister's term of office, requires after intervention and in our rules of procedure, which is not something that is unacceptable, we can agree on in the context of it, but, all in all, it is a really rude interference.... I would ask the chairman to provide some conditions in parliament, because, believe me, the citizens who are following the work of this session to hear more noise in parliament than the speaker hears. (President: Please, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is right. It's been five minutes, we're providing conditions, and I'm asking you to finish your exposure. I'm asking for a little patience. So, I would just like to hear the minister's answer when he's here, I suppose you'll tell him, that it wasn't intent on attitude 2 being this way, and that it wasn't the government's intention to regulate the work of the National Assembly by law and to be at least as moral as to realize that, if someone dared, and so far, we didn't have such a situation, that the government would go before parliament and ask for her to vote for her trust (the cause of this could be a difficult political situation or government's position on some important political and state issue) that she had not received Parliament's trust and resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15354	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I apologize to everyone, but Mrs. Pop-Lazic is the amendment promoter, so I gave it a minute and a half longer. The word has the MP Zoran Krasic for the same amendment, so Mr Nikolic, Mr Milajić, then Momir Markovic and Mr Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15355	Another provision that did not belong in this law, but in order for it to be no doubt and someone to say – when it did not belong to the law, why you submitted the amendment, we had to submit an amendment to do it a little bit, because we have experience and with the Labour Act, we have submitted so many amendments to fix it, so it finally had to go the way it went. Article 19 concerns the issue of trust with the Government. So it's back to Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There is only one position in that article that says that the government can question its trust in the National Assembly; but more and more it must be resolved if not by the Constitution, then to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But you're making mistakes again, you're announcing something again. What Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, and as far as the first attitude is concerned, anyone would probably accept that, because it's quite clear. But what you wrote in attitude four is terrible. I do not dispute that such situations exist, but are constitutionally prescribed in certain states. This is the situation when the government raises the question of its trust, does not get a constitutional majority in parliament, it continues to work, and in order to stop its mandate, it can resign because it has heard, it has received a response from the most competent institution in one country. So, not from statistics, not from polls, not from the mood of public opinion, she got the answer not to enjoy trust. It's a problem with fragile, weak coalition governments, where maybe three or four partners exist, so one, because of its dissatisfaction, causes the government to fall, and in order to defend itself from this fall, it raises the question of trust to get some point, force someone else to vote for confidence, and then there might be some new composition. However, such a situation with us is impossible, because the existing Constitution in some other provisions does not see this situation, and if this political situation is in mind and how whoever catches space in the political sky is practically excluded. Because of this exclusion, and in order not to happen that the Government, in good faith and in order to strengthen its position, has raised the question of its trust, has not received the required number of votes and would not continue to exercise power, although it has received discharge from a competent institution, so that the fate of the government does not now depend on whether the Prime Minister will resign or not. And, can you imagine the situation, God forbid: Karic, the Prime Minister, asks a question of his trust, so he gets one vote here, and he says - I don't care, I can think about whether I quit or not, I won't resign. That is why, in Serbian conditions, what Mrs Pop-Lazic said should stand in position 4, it is more the matter of the Rules of Procedure, so the decision to resolve the government was made if most of the total number of MPs do not vote in favour of the government. This provision makes the government always watch over providing 126 votes. That's the point. The point of this provision is that it reproduces, asks the government to be strong, if it wants to rule, but no, you say -- if we don't get trust here, then we'll think about whether we're going to resign. How do you think you're going to resign when you're from the institution that selected you? I've taken something completely insane for example, something hypothetical, but given who he's got now for political advisor, one can't go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15356	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted by MPs of the ruling majority, because it speaks of their seriousness. First, let's talk about attitude four, which tried to formulate what would be, which is the fate of the government that raised the question of its trust and did not get 126 votes. He says: "The government that has not been voted can resign. ′′ There are at least two questions. Can the government, in any other case, resign? You are now formulating here when the government can resign – if her trust is not voted, and what if she wants to resign any day in any case. Furthermore, why do you predict that the government can resign in this case, when it can resign anyway? Now he can bear in mind the Prime Minister's resignation, and is there any provision of the law that the Prime Minister can resign at 1800 hours today? There isn't. Then why do we need a provision that he can endure, if his trust is not voted upon, that he can, and what do we need in the law of the decree? Either he's intolerant or it's not mentioned. Let's discuss Article 93. The Constitution. In paragraph 4, the question of trust is formulated. Serbian citizens gave themselves this constitution back in 1990, a referendum. The Constitution states that the government can question its trust in the National Assembly. Now it's up to us, representatives of the people, to decide what will happen if the government doesn't pass the test of its trust. You can see how much more moral the people who proposed in 1990 were both at the referendum and this constitution declared. It was understood that the government no longer rules. Such a government that is not prepared, unless it has been voted in trust, that it should not resign or be elected to the National Assembly. It seems to me that this bill of law shows that she is not ready to step down, even if her trust is not voted, and you belong to the so-called. The democratic bloc that accused the former regimes of keeping power at all costs, that it would not give power after the elections, that the tanks would go, and now you're talking a little bit more about yourself. You are in power, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People who make up the majority. Don't adopt a standard like this. Don't tell your government -- if you don't want 126 MPs in the assembly, you can resign. Tell your government, your government and each other – if you do not have 126 votes in the Assembly, resign. So I ask you to adopt this amendment, because then a lot of things would be clearer to us. The Serbian Radical Party government will never remain that government if there are no 126 votes in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15358	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15359	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 19 regulates the issue of trust to the government. The Institute of Trust is a constitutional category and is regulated by Article 93(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the government is scheduled to put a question of trust before the Serbian Parliament. However, the institute isn't exactly regulated, it's just mentioned as a possibility. However, the constitution does not determine closer to the conditions under which trust is raised by the government. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 200(4), envisions a procedure for voting confidence in the government. It provides that from the date of the submission of the proposal, no less than three or more days can pass until the hearing is started. It is foreseen here, by the bill, in paragraph 2 that a vote of confidence cannot go less than five or more days. The promoter tried to impose other deadlines on this home than those provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The fundamental difference between this bill and what has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is that the Rules of Procedure provides for the opening of a debate within no less than three days and no longer than 15 days, but does not determine a deadline within which a vote of confidence must be held. The law stipulates that from the submission of the proposal to the government's vote of confidence it cannot go less than five or more days. So, the government is trying to regulate with this law the matter that is exclusively related to this home and what is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the legislative authority. The highlight of all is attitude 4, under which a non-voting government can resign. I don't think there's any law in any constitution of a civilized and democratic country. The government can always, at any time of the day and night, resign. She doesn't need a congregation procedure at all, she doesn't need to ask the Assembly for an opinion at all if she's going to resign or not. It's her right and she can do it at any time of the day and night. It is extremely hypocritical that a government that has not received 126 votes in the assembly is choosing whether to resign or not. I think it automatically loses its mandate because it has lost the majority of 126 MPs' trust and it is immoral to leave it to a government that does not have the support of the congregation's majority to decide whether it will continue to rule or not. It is evident that this bill, not only in article 19 but in a series of members of this bill, the government is trying to regulate the work of the Serbian Parliament, which is absolutely unacceptable and is contrary to both the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15360	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic has the word, and then he will have the word Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15361	I suggest that the National Assembly decide that we continue our work until the search ends on all points of the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15362	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here, you're in the O.R., right? Mr. Angelkovic taught me that yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and one of them seems to be doing it right now. The one that was done was that Mr Aligrudic did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure required that the session work be extended. You are obliged, Mr. President, just like when you refer to me such a question, to ask Mr. Aligrudic to state by which member of the Rules of Procedure he proposes. In order not to do this second injury, which you are now doing, I warn you that the 81st member regulates our working hours and does not allow us to extend our working hours. He says, "Employments of the National Assembly at which legislation proposals, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, rules of procedure are being held", etc. "are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18.00 hours with an hour's interruption. "There is a Article 4 that allows for some other day, which is being notified by the President of the National Assembly. At the sitting itself, your proposal may extend the work, but beyond the Rules of Procedure. That's what you should know. And this is the rules of procedure that some of us adopted. Don't insult and humiliate that majority with some newly created majority today. And these were the messengers of the people. Even you yourself have proposed and voted for this. So I would ask, Mr. President, that you plead, to give me an explanation of whether the Rules of Procedure is injured, whether he will be hurt if you vote for an extension, and then to do what you want to do. But I'm asking you for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15364	Mrs. Lakicevic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15365	Article 81 and Article 82. We also believe that the Assembly cannot vote for an extension, and since you have a majority and you will vote for extension, I would like for the sake of the Serbian public, on behalf of the Democratic Party, to give you some statistics on the work of parliament during this call, and to inform you that this assembly, when proposed and called, had 29 points of the agenda, has already happened several times already that it has been over-ambitious and pre-maritally convened by the National Assembly. At least you should be aware of the facts, President, that such a agenda cannot be fulfilled in the time in which the Assembly works, especially if it is done with the dynamics of how this Parliament works. First, the total figures. Parliament's afternoon work for 25 working days in this session by law was supposed to be 96 hours. (Glass from the O.R.: How long were you? (President: Please, no throwing away. Mrs Stojacic is very often in the Assembly. ) Long enough to make remarks about those gaps that you have been doing daily and long enough for me to have the opportunity to point out those gaps that the ruling coalition in this House is making. The opposition party, therefore, has no obligation to sit in parliament all the time, but has an obligation to adequately meet those points of the agenda for which its authorised legislators have taken the obligation to criticise the proposed laws. As far as my presence is concerned, it is probably much bigger and quite significant than most of the MPs in this House. So, to make things concrete: out of 96 hours of work, as long as this Parliament was supposed to have in the afternoon session, it was only 33 hours, so one third. The sessions began, instead of at 15.00 hours, always with an hour or two delay, even more. The maximum work in the afternoon was two hours, minimum for two days – zero minutes. On April 5th, the assembly worked one minute, April 20th, seven minutes, and on the other days mostly between one and one and a half hours, if there was a special desire to do something, a maximum hour and 45 minutes. Today, when it comes to the serious law, the government law -- which has greatly been inconclusive with many other laws that are currently in force, even with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks enough about the fact that we have repeatedly pointed out: that this Parliament has passed laws and thus destroyed the single legal system, because the laws were not in agreement with themselves, mutually, with system laws, even those laws that followed one after another had unanimity – it is the decision that the National Assembly is working all night. The decision is made to force this law, although we are all aware of the huge gaps this law has. I'll remind you that this is the way the Education Act, which is not worth wasting words about, because it's so bad and it's so stopped the reforms in this area that we're all feeling already. I'll remind you that this is how the budget was discussed, that we've been working all night and, you'll admit the fact, we've done a job that's also had a large number of flaws. So, in order never to tell anyone again that this is the most valuable, most conscious and successful assembly of parliament, I remind you again that we are extending today's work, and that in the previous period we have worked less than one third of the time prescribed for the work of MPs in the National Assembly. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you, by respecting the dignity of the Assembly, by respecting the dignity of the citizens of Serbia who are following the flow of the Assembly and that in this House today, laws are passed that should correspond to reality, guidance and what you all swear, which is the fact that you want to do so in Europe, do not extend the work of this Parliament and that you continue to take care of what agenda you are planning and try to enable each of us in this Parliament to make your remarks and suggestions on the laws that are being passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15366	Mrs. Stojacic, thank you for the self-critic. Once again, I remind you, that there would be no public harassment, don't God forbid the assembly works seven minutes, or whatever you say. Fortunately, the Assembly works 365 days a year, every hour, and when it comes to sittings, the Rules of Procedure, thank God, does not know the definitions you spoke of – the opposition and the positional MP, because all MPs have the exact same rights and all of them are covered by all the points of this Rules of Procedure. It is a great pleasure to remind once again that, during last year, this was the assembly that passed the most laws and worked most days of the year in the history of the Serbian parliament. These are facts and I thank you all for this, but I will also listen to your self-critics and Mr. Aligrudic's request. If your assessment isn't done enough, I'll put it to a vote, according to article 130. ... Of course, you'll all get a word in the Rules of Procedure, but I'm just announcing, it's my duty to inform you that I'm going to be in charge of the session. So, according to Article 130, since the Assembly has the power to make decisions, I will put the decision to the vote, according to your statement by the Rules of Procedure, on the extension of work, which does not mean all night. That's what we'll decide on in the Rules of Procedure when there's going to be a break. Before I put it to the vote, please, MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15367	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, neither Mr Aligrudic nor Predrag Markovic, have any foothold in the Rules of Procedure to carry out the extension of work and working hours in advance of the scheduled and defined session. One thing is obvious, and the citizens of Serbia need to know. Mr Nikolic in that general confusion and in that chaos that took place half an hour ago in the Assembly warned Serbian citizens that something was coming. You now see that this whole situation in the Assembly... And, by the way, I'm advocating Article 28, Mr. President, because you just said, and that gave me the opportunity to advertise Article 28, to have the intention to do so, or to put a proposal, which is absolutely not your authority under Article 28, and it's not in the description of what you're supposed to be doing as president of the Assembly. So you're clearly upset about the absence of a stable congregation majority, which is obvious. You know, all of you who laugh can laugh right now, right now, and I'm asking you where you were half an hour ago to figure it out, this morning and all these days when you're in an O.R. less than 84. Just because you've been on the phone right now, making each other come into the O.R. doesn't mean anything. Obviously, you do not have a permanent and stable congregation majority, because if you did, you would not resort to such methods and jump into your own mouth. Imagine, you defined the agenda, I'll remind you, last year, the beginning of a regular session in October of the month, megalomaniac, with a number of system laws. One of those laws was the tourism law. You know when we discussed him? 15 days ago, we started a debate, or 10 days ago, with eight months of delay. Now you're informing us, five minutes before you gather in haste from the MPs' clubs, where you've already come from, from the store, from the restaurant... At least you can't tell us, no one from the Serbian Radical Party, like you can't even throw me that we're not there, because we're the most valuable and diligent MPs in Serbia. As you are unable to have a constant majority, you tell us five minutes before the famous idea came to a colleague Aligrudic that you do not want a new vice president of the Assembly, he tells us that he is giving up choosing him, so you are still informing us that the National Bank of Serbia does not need a statute that has delivered you another 5 January this year. What kind of a majority are you, then? Most of you are at a time when you're so eliminated in a minute when you're 126. You can't do that. There must be at least 126 of you all the time, and you're not there, but that's a big problem. Mr. President Markovic, taught by the experience of the former chairman, and then this assembly majority has brought this Rules of Procedure which in many of its provisions violates the democratic postulates and the possibility of national representatives to represent the free will of citizens here, you cannot, by article 28 and by Article 81, extend the working time of the Assembly. The fact that you said it wouldn't last until deep into the night, you know, Mr. Markovic, I can't tell what's going on for you until deep into the night, and what's some appropriate time. Then you should tell us that it's 11 o'clock when people usually go to sleep because of their biological clock. Someone might be going at three o'clock at night, how do you know that? You can't speculate what it is deep into the night and what it isn't. You just have to stick to the Rules of Procedure and know... Time, time's running out, but it's time to tell you nicely that this can't be done. I thank the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party for their support, and I thank you from such a ruling majority for realizing that I am right. Thank you for the applause. So, after 18 hours here, according to the Rules of Procedure, it can't be work, and now my colleague Krasic can pick up where I left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15368	So, just one clarification to Ms. Jovanovic: under Article 28 paragraph 1 of the third indent, the president takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, in that sense, I have informed the member of which I will do what I will do and, of course, since, under Article 81(4), it is clear who can apply to speak, who is present, I am now putting the proposal to the vote... Be nice, I said, since it wasn't, everything's fine... Under Article 81(4), the MP is required to identify himself with his card. There aren't any now. I put to the vote, by Article 130, a proposal to.... Meanwhile, Mr Nikolic signed up. Mr. Nikolic, just a moment, to explain to the MPs who are confused, be kind. Therefore, pursuant to Article 82(4). Rules of Procedure... I said there are no opposition and positional MPs. According to Article 4, each MP is required to identify himself when entering the O.R. by inserting an identification card into the MP's unit. That's why I begged Mr. Nikolic, before I gave him my word in the Rules of Procedure, to identify himself. Here you go, it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15369	Mr. President, I greatly appreciate the way you run the National Assembly sessions, and this is what I'm doing to you right now. I want to prevent you from making the most serious breach of the Rules of Procedure and it's about four members of the Rules of Procedure. If you put your proposal to the vote and call for article 130, you will be injured by four members of the Rules of Procedure, have a look at your secretary: Article 80, Article 135, Article 157 and Article 158. Why? Because you are now putting into the agenda one point, which is not choice and appointment, by emergency procedure. It's the only point that could now be placed in the agenda during the session. Only those points delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure may be classified in accordance with Article 80. There is an emergency procedure regulated by Article 157, and it could include points whose non-compliance would result in adverse and inconceivable consequences. There is Article 158, which would allow you to put the choice and appointment of judges on the agenda now, we would not say a word, but a point called – a proposal to vote on an extension of work cannot now be proposed by the Rules of Procedure. You can force yourself, you can do the rudeness, but it would be like if the judge in the courtroom told you – no matter what law, I know how I'm going to conduct this procedure. So do you. I repeat, I greatly appreciate the way you run the sessions. There's a situation where you're skillfully getting away with it, you're not showing the rudeness that the former presidents have shown, but right now you're going to make the biggest mistake, you're going to be remembered, Mr. President. You'll take off your mask, you'll be naked as a ruling majority MP, and I don't know why, from which sympathy, as an MP to the opposition, I kindly warn you not to make that mistake, not to be remembered by Serbia. Let me compare you to King Milan. You like it, and your appearance speaks, and you wish you were a radical, and if they told you, so is Pasic. King Milan kept the MPs under arrest, so when he needs them to vote for the budget, he takes them out of his office, they vote for the budget, he wakes them up again and puts them back in the seat. I would hate for us to serve you that way, Mr. President. You've adopted this blue book most of the time, respect that majority. According to most of this madness with your proposal to put the vote on the extension of work on the agenda must not go away. Here's the minister here. This is not Minister Lalovic who told Serbia – you are doing everything the opposite of what the SRS is saying will be fine. I know when you said that, Minister. This minister is quite reasonable, and I notice that with respect to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15370	Just thanks to a reminder of all the points of the Rules of Procedure I had no intention of putting on a new agenda, you're absolutely right, but I'll listen to you. Member of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta, in accordance with Article 158(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, should be included in the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Please, we are entering the agenda, because the condition you have called for is fulfilled, there are more than 126 MPs. Please don't turn the congregation into a farce. You'll all be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. The conditions were met, the moment you answered, you weren't there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There is no debate on such proposals, I guess that's clear by the Rules of Procedure, for God's sake, but we had a problem in the morning, one MP didn't read the Rules of Procedure and he didn't know how to call and get the word. We will not allow such things, the seriousness of the National Assembly is above all. We have three of these. Be nice. For 126, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. National MP Dusan Petrovic, in accordance with Article 158(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Dusan Petrovic, chairman of the DS-Boris Tadic, should be included in the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against one, he did not vote one out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, in accordance with Article 158(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the 9th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be included in the agenda of the first regular session of the 2005 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in an urgent procedure, as the last item of the agenda, on the basis of a proposal submitted by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. These were all suggestions for expanding the agenda. According to Article 130, I am putting on the vote a decision to continue the assembly until the search is over. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. MPs who have not inserted their cards cannot ask in any way by the Rules of Procedure to turn around. I warned you five minutes ago, everyone who wants to turn in their cards. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. We're continuing our work. Here you go, Mr. Krasic is present now. Here you go, Mr. Krasic. I thank again all MPs who have helped to be precise in the Rules of Procedure, respecting all these provisions, we can carry out today's meeting in an adequate manner. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15371	It would be really inappropriate if I were to plead from here to form a consulate that would determine whether or not you can see it. You'll see there through those instruments that the card was and that in time there was an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now that you hear it, Mr. President, what is it, you'll see that you made a mistake 15 minutes ago. I suggest that you have injured Article 100(1), and this should be seen as a contribution to the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia. In order for the next chairman to understand what this is about, and especially the professional services that give the wrong instructions to Predrag Markovic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, and here is the view. One member of the ruling majority came out and suggested something. He didn't specify on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure he was doing so. Then we had the opportunity to hear through the President of the National Assembly that it was possible to make a decision to extend the work, based on the provisions of Article 130. Rules of Procedure. But they missed. The fact that it stands in article 130 has a logical relationship with Article 156 means that whoever suggested an extension of the work must provide it in writing, with an explanation. There is no such document. Secondly, you from the professional service to know, the fact that it stands in Articles 130 and 156 refers to general acts, not to something that would look like an individual act or an act governed by some procedure. You have violated this entire Rules of Procedure, because you want to forcely extend this work, and that you have proposed in writing and that you have explained the reasons for the flood, but for you and the floods are not an emergency. It's an emergency for you when that MP comes out and proposes, because it's said to be working until he passes out. You faint, let the cameras walk, the government has escaped into the hallway, because now 84 can work and now it shows who cares about this law that's on the agenda. Those who are in power are not up to this law. It is up to them to record how many laws they have passed, how many they have worked, and we have seen, for a minute and a half, seven minutes in the afternoon. It offends the dignity of the National Assembly. If you're scheduled at 10.00 hours, be at 10.05, and if you say 3:00, be here at 15.00. It's your duty to secure most of it. It is your interest to pass these laws, and it is our duty to criticise you and, if we may, to make you better. It's obviously an unsuccessful job. Now, these gymnastics of yours, they're changing flying exchanges, the presidents, the chairman, and someone hasn't checked in, and he did, he checked in, he's gone. Find out...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15372	Mr. Krassic, you're out of time. Mr. Krasic, you've received an explanation from the President of the Assembly, called for article 130. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15373	It's a business thing. Mr. Mikhailovich, how could I get an explanation when Markovic didn't even hear what I objected to? How could I get an explanation from him when he "burned" before I got here? I'm really going to have to propose one decision as a general act on the formation of a consilium.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15374	Mr. Krasic, the explanation has been given to all MPs, including you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15375	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, experts to turn impossible situations into possible, experts to incomprehensible and unacceptable conversions into possible today have shown their true face. After all, this law and many laws before this, and probably a few other laws, while literally this political pyramid of yours formed at the ′′bulldozer of the revolution's end and there are no new elections, and those who really care about the interest of the Serbian citizens are triumphing over these elections, so far you will be able to pass a few more laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't care about improving your laws. We are trying to lead this law to at least be applicable when we come to power and when our ministers lead these ministries and that this assembly where the SRS will have most of the time has time to pass new laws. And the fact that all of this branch of government, the legislative branches of government, are taking away some of the power, some of the ingenuity, ever since that people's congregation burned down to this day, so from October 5th, I'm not making the difference between you. You're only different by the number of shoes, otherwise, you're a lot alike. In Article 18, which we had just discussed, and also in Article 19 of the amendments and discussions, it was tried not to stop at least a little bit. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has submitted an amendment to Article 19, and as citizens of Serbia are watching, and I can see that you are not interested in this, but Serbian citizens are very interested, because their skin is also about their pocket, because you have regulated that the government can also propose to the National Assembly to vote for mistrust. So he says, from submitting the proposal to voting on trust, it can't be less than five days or more. With this other attitude, you predicted that trust is not discussed at all, but that it is just a vote. Because if you had predicted that only individual ministers were discussed, who have been sitting since the tangerines entered the NB, and going "Bore Schneider Development Road", through rifles, through governors, by force of kidnapped chairs, and to the minister, his entire development path is paved by affairs that could be talked about for a month, only one minister could be talked about for a month and not say half. Not because Serbian Radical Party MPs would talk slowly, but because it's such a bunch of affairs that he doesn't get at least 150 years in prison, the moment justice and justice are in this country. Finally, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic asked for a change of resolution by amendment to Article 19. Instead of – a government that has not been voted in trust can resign, she has actually requested that a decision on the resolution of the Government be made if most of the total number of MPs do not vote in favour of the Government. Do you know what this item 4 in Article 19 means? You can vote all you want, I'm still the minister, we're still the government, we're not going to resign. That you didn't vote our trust, so that's your business. The discussions were held – if he had morals, he would resign. Oh, there's no morals, people. No morals, because if there was, there wouldn't be an Erickson affair. If she had, there wouldn't be a "Knjiz Milos" affair. If she had no need to have a travel affair, there wouldn't be an affair with Belgrade Airport, there wouldn't be an affair at all about JAT. If it had to, there wouldn't be many affairs and there would be a lot of money in Serbia, and the four billion from Cyprus found, for which Mladjan Dinkic is now named former Minister Batic. But, to be clear, Batic is not fair, but Batic stood up for the commission and therefore calls it out, but the state of Serbia has lost four billion, which are now being bought by businesses around Serbia, are being created by national savings banks and other banks. The government must resign the moment she is voted out of confidence, that is, when her trust is not voted out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15376	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15377	Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary club, or co-worker Gordana Pop-Lazic, has tabled an amendment to Article 19(1). We ask that this attitude be changed and that it reads: “The government can question its trust in the National Assembly with a written request that requires discussion and a vote of confidence. ′′ As regards attitude 4, we also ask that the position, which my colleague Markovic spoke about enough in the previous presentation, change and that it reads: ′′ The decision to resolve the government has been made if most of the total number of MPs do not vote in favour of the government. ′′ As regards the 19th Institute member himself, when we talk about the Government, especially the 4th position in which it is said: “The government that has not been voted can resign”; therefore, it can and must not, the government that does not vote with confidence has been resolved, it is no longer a government, and that is the essence of the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 19. In the case of this Article 19, it is evident that the law is inaccurately drawn up and proposed to the National Assembly. If we are talking about a law that should address an issue of such an important institution as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that the government must submit precise and clear legislative proposals to the National Assembly. We have tried to make this draft government law more precise with our amendments, however, this is a confusing bill that does not resolve the issue of this institution that is very important for all citizens of Serbia, especially when we look at Article 19. A bill in position 4 says: ′′The government that is not voted in trust can resign. There's a point there and there's still no point. The government that has voted for non-trust is no longer a government, means it does not trust the majority of MPs of the National Assembly, and that is the essence of this amendment. Minister, we expect you to accept this amendment, because it clearly addresses the issue of such an inaccurate member that you have submitted as a representative of the Government, that is, the Government has submitted to the MPs in the Assembly a bill on the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15378	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mihailovic, first of all, let me ask you where you have been all these days, since you have had enough time after Straight Up to attend the sessions from 10.00 to 1800 hours, and today you have come to justify the President of the Assembly, who, completely with the absence of morals and respect of the Rules of Procedure, was in the midst of advertising by Mr Krasic, who left the session, or the chair. Since it is said here that the government should have consideration for the situation it has encountered, I suggest you, Mr. Mihailovic (see, you have influence, and you and this group, in Kostunica), in the absence of the President of the Assembly, to take a break, because there is no one to replace you in that place, therefore, to go to the phone and invite Vojislav Kostunica to come and resign. It is obvious that 20 minutes from your celebration that you are strong and powerful, there are 127 of you left here – as many of you; I can now look to the side where the MPs of the ruling majority are named to tell you who's not in the O.R., you want me to start talking to you, from every MP's group, so you don't know for yourself who's not there. In the morning when you sign, you watch who's where, and I have to tell you who's missing on your benches. Don't, please, pretend you have most when you don't have one. This is about morality or immorality. Mrs. Pop-Lazic is looking for... Quiet as I speak, be so parliamentary and polite, while you've already stayed in that majority, that you listen to what this is all about. Since Gordana Pop-Lazic has sought and has experience of bringing down the government (as she, as she will end the mandate before the time), the government is determined by automation to the fact that there are no 126 MPs, you need to accept its amendment. Mr. Lonchar, in this general chaos and cramming by certain MPs, because you are a serious man, I hope as a minister you will understand this argument and that, as you did this morning and yesterday, realizing these arguments, you see that it is necessary. So, it is unacceptable that we are given this reason for not accepting the amendments of colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic, because if you say that through the adoption of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia there is no such failure, so there is no such automation and then you are calling for morality, you as a minister whose law is on the agenda you have seen how immoral your colleague Slobodan Lalovic is. As soon as the work extended, he leaves the session in his immoral style, there is no more, one less minister, after him these two more from this quasi-party, and the non-existent parliamentary groups, and then what are we talking about here. You know, Mr. Lonchar, if your intentions were honorable in some part of it, and you say – if there is a failure in the Constitution and every member of the government has to call for morality, then there is obviously an immoral presence here with some of your colleagues. If Vojislav Kostunica is watching the session broadcast, if there is no other job, and I suppose there is no afternoon now, he will, if he is a moral man, come here and say it – it is obvious that my MPs are insubordination, that they are not disciplined, that they are not doing the job properly, and they have deceived these from the opposition, they are gathered at a time when they were to vote for extension, and now they are gone, sorry, I no longer enjoy the support of responsible people, and I can't be prime minister. That's what it would be like to interpret it from word to word this argument for Article 19. Since that can't happen, because that's not the case, then I suggest that for every future government and for all those people who have to understand when there's no 126, they have to resign and that it's stopped, that you accept Mrs. Pop-Lazic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15380	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Jovanovic. It's not this one, it's Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15381	Ladies and gentlemen, since about 17 minutes ago about the President of the Assembly broke the Rules of Procedure, members 1 through 236, continue to do so apparently and now by throwing to the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15382	Mrs. Radeta, please, I've prevented a throwout, and now I'm asking you to address the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15383	Mr. President, don't interrupt me, you just didn't let me talk about the Rules of Procedure, and now let me speak and say what I want to say. I understand your nervousness, and I understand the anxiety of this so-called congregation majority, because I see how you planned to gather you 126, to stay in this room for seven minutes, to vote to extend the work and then to where my dear ones are. There are now 34 fewer of you than there were at the time you voted and the question is how many of you will be in the next half hour. Just so you know, I guess you have experience with Serbian Radical Party MPs, we're going to work, don't think that what you've extended your work will affect our participation in the debate. It's that you're ahead, one group goes to sleep and the other comes back here just to make some quorum, no intention of working. You don't even know what's on the agenda or what's going on here, and that's why you can act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15384	I warn you not to insult the MPs of the people...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15385	... And if you knew that, if you knew what this is about and what it's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15386	Mrs. Radeta, they know, please, I'm giving you a second warning. So MPs know what's on the agenda and discuss it, whether they're MPs or opposition. Be kind, you've been given the word after the amendment and proceed according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15387	Mr. Markovic, first give me my time, and then tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you give me the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15388	No one has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to warn and interrupt a speaker other than the President of the Assembly. Be nice and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15389	I'm asking you again to continue to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I'm talking about the amendment. I need to say all of this to draw attention to those who get it if it's not true, because they really don't know what's on the agenda, maybe they'd come out to say something if they knew. Here, gentlemen, on the agenda is the draft government law, currently in Article 19. The bill, to which the amendment was tabled by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and the amendment was submitted because Article 19 is one unmistakable, nebulous, stupid solution that no one understands and that definitely means nothing. In Article 19, when it comes to trust in the Government, you say: "The government may propose to the National Assembly that her trust be voted out. From the submission of the proposal to the vote of confidence, it cannot take less than five or more days. I guess this is the highlight of stupidity. What happens if we talk about the government's trust for an hour and what happens if we talk about the government's trust for 20 days and an hour, what happens to the vote in that case? Obviously, and this is not the only example, what we have been telling you for several days – that this law is also one of the bad translations, because if you had at least hired a good translator, then you would have made such a suggestion that the law at least makes sense and that it can be applied. What do you say next in article 19? ′′Vladji voted in favour of most of the votes of the total number of MPs. ′′ You say, the final position: ′′The government that is not voted can resign. "This is indeed a miracle unseen. Now, if the government, and it is, is what the assembly majority is like, since you chose that government, and if the government is as moral as this government is, Vojislav Kostunica's morale, I ask what will happen when it is passed on by mistrust and that government will not resign. Then why the vote? Then why the debate on the government's trust? However, you, and now, above all, the President of Parliament, and the majority of parliament who accepts to change the agenda, to interrupt the agenda, that the points that have been on the agenda since January for the fourth time, you do not respect the current regulations and therefore do not put trust in the government for a month and a half. If you have managed to gather 126 of you to extend the work of this assembly, you may also be able to arrange for government. Have courage, let us discuss this, because you who swear to parliamentary democracy should know that in modern parliamentary democracies when the majority of parliament is sure that the government is doing well then proposes to discuss the government's trust, and you do not allow it to the opposition when you have a month and a half of a proposal before this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15390	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, followed by Petar Jojic. For those MPs who do not read the memos coming from the professional service, a session on the government's trust point is scheduled for Tuesday at 12:00 p.m. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be nice for the camera to show this left-hand part of our hall to see what's left of the majority who just triumphantly voted for an extension of the work. As for Article 19, the most controversial position is Article 4. All of what we're talking about mostly refers to the position of the fourth member. In fact, Article 19 speaks of the government’s trust, or one possibility for the government to ask the National Assembly to vote in the National Assembly or to show confidence. The position of the 4th member states that a non-voting government may resign. When I first read this, I thought it was a technical mistake. However, it is obviously not a mistake, but an intention to leave the government to its decision, personally, morally, whether it will resign if the assembly does not give her confidence or continue to rule. The logical question is why this institution trusts the Government, why debate in the Assembly, why vote on government confidence, if the government will say – we don't care what you voted for, the government will continue to work as it has so far. I think this is important for the government and for the majority who support the government, in order to preserve the little rating this ruling coalition has in the Serbian public. In fact, if you adopt this the way it stands in the bill, you will be funny to the citizens of Serbia. The average, most ordinary citizen of Serbia understands this and thinks clearly, so he will say, which is the government he has had to stay in if the Assembly does not give her confidence? What is in the explanation that you rejected this amendment by Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic? It is said: "As the vote on mistrust of the government's parliamentary pressure institute, the government's vote of confidence is a kind of pressure on the Assembly to provide it with support and security in further policy-making or, by denying government support, to expose the National Assembly to possible disbandment." Look, we have a threat to the National Assembly by the government. If the National Assembly does not vote in confidence with the Government, it is exposed to possible disbandment. This is a threat from the Government to the National Assembly. Also, it explains: "If the government does not have a vote of confidence, its mandate does not stop. The constitution does not provide a foothold for that. The issue of the government's survival remains in the domain of broader political relations and morals, at least formally, is left to the government's assessment. ′′ If the Constitution does not provide a foothold for the automatic resolution or resignation of the Government, the Constitution does not restrict you from predicting in this law the possibility of the government being resolved by automated means. As you have applied one other option in this law, because the Constitution, as you say in the explanation, does not explain the possibility or way of voting with the Government, or does not speak directly about the number of votes you must have to support the Government in order to have her voted in confidence, but in the law you provided for it to be 126 votes, why did you not say in this proposal – even though the Constitution did not provide a foothold for it, we provide for this law that a government that has not been automatically resolved by the government. You wouldn't break the Constitution at all. You'd have a clear situation. As far as we are from the opposition, this won't bother us very much, but it brings you to a funny situation in front of the citizens of Serbia. I say, what little rating you have today, if you have it, will disappear when this goes public and is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", because this is extremely unserious. If the government doesn't have 126 votes here, how come the moral right of such a government to even consider resigning, or to get out of that place?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15392	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 19. The bill provides that the government may propose to the National Assembly to vote in confidence. Secondly, from submitting the proposal to voting on confidence, it cannot go less than five or more days. Third, the government voted in favour of most of the votes of the total number of MPs. But what is ugliest and can be the worst in this article is that a government that has not been voted can resign. This is good to hear from the professional public, people who have worked in science, professors of law school, judges, prosecutors and legal audiences, to hear and compare paragraphs 1 and 4. When you say, "Government can propose to the National Assembly to vote her trust," what does the National Assembly do? The vote of mistrust and the government can resign. It doesn't make sense, if the government has decided to check its authority and go before the National Assembly, so before the parliament that chooses the government, that, in the end, if her trust is not voted out, she changes her mind and gives up, and there's nothing from that verification of her authority. What's the result of all this? What did parliament get, what did the government get? The government only played with parliament here. She hired parliament to waste a certain amount of time, to discuss it, because she didn't, and she didn't intend to. What's the big deal here? The government had no intention of resigning as soon as it said – if her trust is not voted out, she can resign. However, it would be more correct if it were provided for in point 4 - if the government had not voted in confidence, it is now considered that the government had no confidence and that it had resigned. It doesn't make sense, it says -- it can -- it can -- it can, but in that case, it's only being determined and declared that the government doesn't trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15394	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Goran Cvetanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15395	Mr. Chairman, I've been waiting for you to return to the O.R. because I'm really surprised by your behavior. I was sure you'd let Mr. Krasic and I get word to the Rules of Procedure, because we were registered to sit, so I don't understand why you overlooked or maybe your powers of observation weren't adequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15396	Excuse me, Mr. Cvetanović, I have to interrupt by Article 99 and ask all MPs to allow the speaker to address.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15397	President-in-Office of you, above all, Mr. Martian acted incorrectly and had dual arches, and when he was president of the Assembly, and also when he was an MP; while he was president of the Assembly he asked all MPs to be present in the O.R., and when he resigned, because he was forced into such a procedure, he himself was not in the O.R. This also applies to Natasa Micic, who as chairman asked all MPs to be active and to make quorum. Mostly, and even now, she's not in the O.R. You have allowed the head of the DSS parliamentary group to speak, without any indication of which member it appears; you have put it to the vote, and the vote lasted 20-25 seconds, although according to the Rules of Procedure it is allowed for a maximum of 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15398	Mr Cvetanovic, for a minimum of 15 seconds, so that someone would not worry in public and that there would be no problem with the vote, the president allowed more than 15 seconds to pass, so more than the minimum. Once again, I apologize to you, but under Article 99, I have to interrupt and ask you to talk about the subject on the agenda, which is the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15399	If you're referring to an amendment to article 19, I disagree with some MPs. First of all, I think MP Zlatan Jovanovic has just voiced his suspicion that a government that does not have the confidence of 126 MPs would certainly resign. I do not really agree that this government would do so, because in this government, apparently, people who do not have the basis and have not received enough votes to be MPs, and they are obviously good for ministers, above all, Mr. Marsican, who indeed went through a catastrophic election and was later promoted to the SCG ambassador; or, say, Mr. Slobodan Vuksanovic, who did not get even 1% of the votes in Belgrade, and was later promoted to the minister of education. Based on this experience, I am sure that the existing government does not want to resign, regardless of which it does not trust the voters and the people, and I am sure that it is necessary for most MPs to adopt Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15400	Mr. Cvetanovic is present and his card was where he was sitting when he was given the word. The president takes care of the conduct of all MPs and has an equal relationship. Therefore, do not doubt Mr Cvetanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15401	Ladies and gentlemen, before I explain our amendment to article 19, just to inform the Democratic Party MPs' club will vote in favour of the amendment to article 19, which was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. In the event that both amendments are adopted, and the amendment submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic and our amendment, there is no conflict, since also by adopting both amendments, this article will be much better than it is now. Therefore, Article 19 speaks of the government's trust, and our amendment refers to Section 2 and Section 4. Paragraph 2 of Article 19 says: "From submitting the proposal to voting on trust, it cannot go less than five or more days. "We have already reiterated that there is a similar provision in Article 18, where we have proposed the amendment to delete from Article 18 a clumsy formulation in this law, because we do not want to believe that there is no good intention of respecting what the National Assembly is owned by, which is that its rules of procedure determines the procedure and procedure and cannot be prescribed by the government law within what time limit it will vote on whether it will be a day of voting or not, according to a proposal in the government law. The second part of the amendment concerns the erasure of Article 19, Article 19. Paragraph 4 reads: "A government that has not been voted in trust can resign. "Nothing but deep vanity, stubbornness, or passion, which can be enticing if you really have 126, cannot be explained that this attitude should remain in the law. We fully understand that it insists on the view that a government whose trust is not voted can resign, but I think we are all fully aware that this position should be deleted from this article. In case you accept the amendment to the 19th National Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic, then you have a different formula of attitude 1, and in case you accept our amendment, then you have the erasure of Article 2 and 4 and then a member who can talk about the confidence of the Government. The particular problem is that if you say there's a case that the government itself asked for a vote of confidence and that she was not voted in trust and you say that then she can resign, that means she doesn't have to. Article 16(3) has previously defined when the Government ceases its mandate. Now we can play a game of argument as to whether a government that has not been voted in trust has actually been voted in mistrust. For anyone who's seriously involved in state affairs, that's understood. So, hypothetically, there's some reason why the government said -- we're going to the Assembly, we want to see if we have confidence in our own parliamentary majority. In the nature of things, it should be some serious cause, some big political or state issue. Or, it can be a simple technique that uses the question of putting your own trust on the agenda, which is when there is a public campaign that the government has no trust and the government says – okay, you in the media, in various social groups, among social actors, you talk about the government having no trust, and the government is ready to come before the Assembly and to check that it still has the will of the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly. That's the two cases. The first is a strategic one, which means that the government chooses this on the basis of some large political issue that has been raised on the agenda or which the government has put on the agenda as a priority and if, in some sense, it is controversial and the government, in view of making a decision on such a large political issue, requires a vote of confidence. In both cases, the position is: "A government that has not been voted can resign", unnecessary because it is known in which cases the government resigns and because the government can resign forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15402	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and the MP is Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as incomprehensible and unacceptable as the views of Article 19 are, it is so, not to say, a ridiculous explanation why amendments and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and MP Gordana Comic are not accepted. In an explanation of why the amendment of Ms. Gordana Pop-Lazic's MP is not accepted, it is said, among other things: "If the government does not have a vote of confidence, its mandate does not stop. The issue of the government's survival remains in the domain of broader political relations and morals, at least formally, is left to the government's assessment. "I can't believe it. I've been reading all these unsuspecting explanations, but this really goes beyond my expectations. In an explanation why the amendment of Ms Gordana Komic's MP is not accepted is said: "Part of the amendment proposing to delete Article 19's position. The bill is not accepted because the Constitution does not prescribe... ′′ etc. The government that has not voted can either continue its mandate or resign: simply failing to vote in confidence does not lead to the government's term of office being terminated. ′′ Then why is it voted against the government's mistrust if only the vote of mistrust does not withdraw by the act itself and the resignation of the government? "It is precisely the reason why the bill potentiates the possibility of a government that has not voted in confidence to resign. "So he can resign, and he doesn't have to. Opinion, the views of the MPs sitting in this House do not have to be of any interest to the government at all. You can vote however you want, the government will not resign, as it is said – the bill indicates the possibility of a government who has not been voted to resign, which puts additional pressure on a government that has not been voted to resign (not but) to consider whether there is a moral standoff... The government that the National Assembly voted for mistrust should consider whether it has a moral foothold to remain in power. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is high time for these dances to stop, to stop infatuating the MPs, to stop underestimating the intelligence of the MPs of the people, and I suggest that the minister adopt the amendments of the People's MP Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and the MP, Mrs Gordana Comic, and finally put this member into practice. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as you've seen on Tuesday, we're going to vote on the government's mistrust. Does this mean, if we declare on Tuesday we don't trust the government, it applies to Article 18, and if we declare no confidence in the government tomorrow, that they will have a moral obligation to consider whether to stay in office or resign? That's funny. I think the citizens of Serbia finally see who they are dealing with and God will give the parliamentary elections very quickly so that we can finally resolve these concerns with the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15404	I hope the citizens don't want to grow old as soon as possible, so soon as in 2008. The government law won't come in until Tuesday, so don't worry. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15405	We're discussing article 19. He has the assumption that the government itself raises the issue of its trust. I don't think we've had the chance, at least in the last 15 years of parliamentary practice in Serbia, that the government is checking whether there are enough MPs who support its policy, but it is logical that the moment the government is gone, specifically in our case, 126 MPs, there is no more debate on whether or not the government can resign. If she is already going into the process to check, the procedure is being initiated during certain political crises that exist in the state, affairs or simply the government itself wants, for public reasons and for its own sake, to check whether the majority is stable in parliament, that the government that has not voted can resign, it is truly unimaginable, especially if in Article 16, which we have also discussed, in paragraph 3, it is very clear and precise that the government is ending the term of office of the Assembly, by voting non-trust, etc. I understand the minister when he says we've been permuting. What is different from checking whether the government has confidence and if it is voted that there are not enough MPs from the fact that it no longer has confidence, no political entities behind the parliamentary majority so far, and at that moment it is logical that the government can no longer function, has no right to manage. Hence, Article 19’s attitude to the fourth is totally unacceptable. In the end, one finding. You had 128 MPs, respected gentlemen of the majority. How much you respect the laws your government has proposed, how much you respect this home, how much you respect other opposition colleagues, it says that you are currently in the ruling group room with 57 counts. Therefore, I would really like to ask the chairman, if you have already insisted that today the Assembly is working late into the night, until we exhaust the agenda, then it would be really quite correct that here at all times you have a minimum of 84 MPs of the ruling group and that it works in a valid manner, as you have agreed. As far as the Democratic Party MPs are concerned, and I believe other opposition colleagues, it's no problem, we'll do this, but I'm saying this for the public. The public in Serbia must know that the opposition is doing its job correctly by participating in a debate on the bill, the amendments submitted are being declared. But at least it's scandalous that the ruling group, which, once again according to Article 19, supports the government, says there are more than 126, stands behind all its proposals, decides to work late into the night and then when we make that decision, faster and better, within 15 minutes, there are 57 of you. I don't think that's correct, no matter what MPs of the ruling group resent, it speaks enough about the relationship of the ruling group to the Assembly, about the government's attitude towards the Assembly and the attitude towards the whole state, which you, here, and through this law have tried to make the most possible possible way simply to make fun of the relevant political entities and the public of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15406	I didn't want to interrupt you because of the respect of the MPs, but I remind you once again that the assembly has to work according to the law. No ruling group is making decisions, but the Assembly is making decisions, of course, foreseen by the majority. I also respect that you are an expert on how many MPs there are in the hall, but since we have a Rules of Procedure, all MPs participate in the work of the Assembly and I hope that everyone respects the Rules of Procedure and keeps cards within their identification units. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15407	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, and this member is one of the proof that, by adopting this law, the government will dominate Parliament's work, that it will not respond to Parliament and that, even as it states in a provision, it will not be obliged to deliver even files or data at Parliament's request. That this is so enough says an analysis of Article 19 and, compared to Article 16 of the same law, we come to a collapsing of the provisions contained in the same law. So, I will quote: ′′The government has voted with the majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. ′′ Then attitude 4 says: “The government that has not been voted can resign. ′′ Article 16 says that a vote of mistrust ends the term of office of the government. Yes, there may be language disagreements, because it's about trust and mistrust. If the government does not trust the ruling majority or the majority in parliament during the vote, regardless of what Mr Balinovac is laughing at, this means that it automatically does not respect, or does not trust the majority of MPs in the People's Parliament. Yes, it is not polite to laugh while the MP explains the amendments to members who are not in line with the same law, which should refer to one of the most important institutions in Serbia, to the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So there is no interpretation, we will repeat once again, 250 MPs, most represent 126. If you put on a vote of confidence at the government's request and you have less than the required majority, that is proof that you do not have the necessary majority to remain in power in the Republic of Serbia. Then in no case can you have the discretion to decide whether or not you will continue to exercise power. Of course, you can be rude enough and bold enough to, and if you don't trust, decide to exercise power further, with the fact that this power will probably take a very short while, because after that you will have a vote of no confidence. I suppose that, given that you are faced with daily problems and the fact that at this point you have no objective trust, not the ruling majority in parliament, but the proper trust of the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to bring something like this which could in many ways enable you to and if put to the vote trust, you do not have the right number, the government remains and exercises power. So, we think that Article 16 has quite well regulated this issue, because by not voting automatically, the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must cease. That's why we think... Thank you, Mr. President, for reminding government officials and lawmakers that it would be polite for them to listen to MPs at the assembly speaker. So unless the government has confidence, the only way is to resign. We suggest that Article 2, which I did not explain, but Article 19, paragraph 4, be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15408	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. According to Article 97(3), I don't give you a replica, because you didn't mention it offensively, and I didn't interpret your presentation, I was already giving notice. Seriously, attitude 3 is a decision in cases The President of the National Assembly shall bring this member from Article 1 and 2, and I shall stick strictly to it. [[and this is about Article 97 relating to replica]] Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Please, all MPs are equal and I didn't interpret your exposure, so it wasn't possible for me to hurt you, I was just giving an explanation to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15409	That's not why he can do business. I've reported for the amendment, so there's no confusion, since emotions work... (President: Please follow the amendment. Of course, Mr. President, and you'll read the stenogram, so you'll hear what I said about that injury. Since it is not on the agenda, it is on the agenda of Article 19 and this amendment requiring erasure of points 2 and 4, as far as I understand the applicant of the amendment, and I share my opinion with the previous applicant of the amendment. Because of the government's representatives and this small number of MPs who voted to work to the end, I'd just like to explain some of the things that concern this constitution, and, I'm sure, the future constitution, means, the future constitution that is being done. Let me start from the beginning. Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed the responsibilities of the National Assembly as a republican body, a body that exercises constitutional and legislative authority. There is a point in the 10th that says the National Assembly is choosing and resolving, and these bodies are listed, among other things by the president, vice presidents and ministers in the government. So, decisions made on this matter by the government, the status issue of the government, whether it exists or does not exist and in what composition, when the choice is made, the president, vice-president, ministers, and when it is moved, it is a solution, the resolution decision is made. Now we come to what is the matter of Article 19, which is the trust of the Government, it's a special path from Article 93. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia when the government itself raises the question of its trust in the National Assembly. When the right is exploited by the MPs, 20 or more, and ask to vote on the government's mistrust, then the motion for a non-confidential vote is an instrument that comes to a possible resolution decision. Therefore, there is no proposal for a resolution in Article 93, but there is a constitutional mechanism. If the Constitution has prescribed a majority of MPs to vote for a non-trust proposal, automation is believed to have made a decision on the government's resolution. That logic should also be applied when considering the issue of trust with the government. It is a special institute aimed at strengthening the government's position and position. Any government that raises the question of its trust does so only to strengthen its position. If, in an effort to strengthen its position, the government raises the question of trust and does not get 126 votes here, then, according to the same untrusted automation, it is believed that the government is resolved. You can only be right if this voting mechanism and what is interpreted and how it is interpreted by the Constitution, as it exists in some countries. I do not dispute that in some countries, but as constitutional norm, there is a government that has not received trust in the vote can resign, but that is not the case with our Constitution. Since that is not available, we propose on the basis of this automation from Article 73 point 10, because the proposal to vote on trust, the proposal to vote on non-trust is just instruments, means that something is entering the assembly procedure. The measurement of the decision is a solution, either it has been made or it has not been made. That's what this is about. What's more, we can do it, and it's not the matter of the government law, it's more matter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I don't know why you put it in here. I don't want to talk to you. I'll get back to you about this other member. I think there's an advantage to this debate that we're having today, which everyone can interpret in their own way, whether it's good or not, whether it's obstruction or not. Anyone who gets into the story of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia must take a stenogram from this session, because I think some good attitudes have been heard that can help with the adoption of a new constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15410	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word. You're calling about the amendment, Mr. Jojic? Yeah. ) I use the opportunity, until Mrs Comic arrives, just to inform: on the basis of the decision the Assembly voted on, Mr Krasic, so that there will be no confusion, until the debate on amendments is concluded on these two members, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the president will certainly give a break tomorrow until 10.00 hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15411	I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 28 of the Provision, to the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and to the President of the National Assembly, and to Article 84(2), under which the President of the Assembly is authorised to give the necessary notices. The president of the assembly allowed himself to comment after the presentation of MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Either he had to tell all of us that he was using the provisions of Article 84(2), or he had to, in the spirit of parliamentary tolerance, allow for replication. Otherwise, he is right when he says that giving a replica is a discretionary right of the speaker of the assembly, but it is not a discretionary right to choose which MP he will negotiate and discuss with. The MP spoke of the presence of the ruling majority MPs. I also refer to Article 82, to the position relating to the determination of the quorum, because visually, given the electronic record of the presence of MPs, on our right, in the third row of the final order in the Assembly, there are seven cards and two MPs. National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, if you listened carefully, spoke only of the presence of the MPs. He didn't ask for a quorum just to give you time, we've all been working all day, to come to the O.R. and it's inappropriate to comment and make remarks about what he said, because if he wanted to, he could've been looking for a quorum at that point. So please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15412	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for your precision first. So, in no way did I refer to Article 82(4) but I commented on the conduct of the speaker, who did not interrupt the speaker by article 99, so I apologized to the Assembly and explained why I did not interrupt the speaker by this article. So that was the only thing I wanted to inform you about. Then, one more apology. Of course, we'll have to check the quorum. Lapsus was, I said earlier, and Miss Jovanovic drew my attention, the lapus was, so – after the end of the debate on amendments under these two laws, not two members. That's what I said. Excuse me. And now I ask the MPs, at the request of Mrs Comic, who is the authorised representative for this item of the agenda, to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please, allow me, I'll say 80 MPs are present in the O.R. The others are breaking the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm taking five minutes off. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I remind you once again, according to the National Assembly's decision made this afternoon, and according to the Rules of Procedure, we will certainly be working during tonight's session until the amendments to these two laws are completed, and after that will be given a several-hour break, probably ten hours. Please, for starters, let's determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, you will not be able to take a break until tomorrow at 10.00 hours, because the debate on these two laws and amendments on these two proposals will not be completed tomorrow until 10.00 hours. I'll be able to speak to you at 5:00 or 6:00 in the same way as all the colleagues in the SRS. And now I would like to invite Mr. Minister and his associates to accept the amendment of counterpart Gordana Komic, who is fully in line with what is submitted to the same member of the bill, Article 19, by counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic. In fact, if this is the case, and if the minister as a representative of the government and the legislator does not agree with this, we will again come to that situation and the story that the government will collectively understand its obligation that at the moment it becomes evident that there are no 126 MPs who support it should resign. Later, when we discuss the amendment to Article 20 and through the debate until the end of this law, you will see that the big problem is in a termological sense not to determine the exact time when what is happening. It is so clumsyly formulated that every member in which the obligation is spoken, in this particular case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so we had a request, at the initiative itself, and when we took an oath, simply that time uncertainty is going through the entire text of the law. It is something that is unacceptable to the MPs, because there is no clear definition when in this case the executive authority should fulfil its obligation. It really isn't enough to call on that indeterminateness of the current RS Constitution and then say – it's now part of morality and responsibility. Today I was telling you, when we began to debate in particular, that the issue had to be truly understood by some politicians in our country, or by those who tend to be politicians and allegedly have a party, such as that unfortunate man Bogoljub Karic, so we cannot accept that some member of the government, and in this case the whole government, refers in such a way to the obvious will that can be expressed at one point. Whether or not she will be, we'll see about next week, if there's a debate about trusting this Kostunica government at all. So it would be better, in the context of all our explanations and amendments and Mrs Pop-Lazic and Mrs Comic, to accept both because they are not in the opposite. It would have been precisely the 19th time that the article was arranged as acceptable for the people's representatives, who are the only ones who have the right to say whether they want to remain a government, because they chose it, accepted the prime minister's exposés and cabinet that he proposed. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15415	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15416	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments to article 19 submitted by colleagues Gordana Pop-Lazic and Gordana Comic are essentially the same, formally not, and therefore it really doesn't matter which of these amendments the minister will accept. The previous one is not, but perhaps this one or the congregation majority will do so after such an exhaustive multi-day work in continuity. So, article 19 speaks of the government's trust. The amendment proposed erasing Article 19, Article 19's position, and said: "The government that has not been voted can resign. ′′ Nothing more normal, nothing more logical than to erase this attitude, because it is simply incomprehensible and unacceptable how the Government can continue to rule if it does not trust the congregation majority. Here, I allow that it may not be clear enough for us, and I would like to, I don't know which one of the MPs is talking about Article 19, to have Minister Loncar come out and explain to us, maybe we'll give up our insistence, because what is in the law and in an explanation why these two amendments are not accepted really cannot convince us of the correctness of the government's proposal. On the contrary, all these arguments are in line with these amendments. I'd rather say that the government's arguments are why it doesn't accept the amendments, in fact, to the reasons for the amendments submitted, because the government is telling us in its explanation what we've been talking about here for several hours now. That's why I can't understand why it really doesn't come to this as it's written in the government's explanation. The government says a government that has not been voted in trust can either resume its mandate or resign. This is amazing. Does this mean that when the government is elected and some prime minister comes, introduce us to his exposés, his government, and that government doesn't get most of it, does that mean that they will go from here to the government building and say, but we are the Government, because we intend to be the Government, we don't care that the majority of them don't. This is really unspeakable. He goes on to explain: ′′Just not voting with the government does not lead to the end of the government's mandate. "And what, then, Minister, leads to the ceasefire of the government if it doesn't lead to a lack of trust? I don't really understand what direction this government and this policy is going in. You first made a precedent in this community, the so-called Serbia-Montenegro community, when you accepted that the elections were not being discussed and that whoever took over there would not call the elections and there was no change in government at that level. So, you're already telling us here, and if we discuss the government's mistrust, who cares, because you're going to pass this law, it's probably going to be published right now, waiting out there in the official messenger, and who cares that the government here won't get the trust. You've decided that the government lasts while you're ruling, and you don't really need the law, you don't need this provision either. Since you intend to work unconstitutionally and illegally, don't force the MPs to accept this as Parliament's solutions, because this is really a disgrace, first of all for the legal profession, and for everyone else who knows how to read, they don't have to know how to interpret, it's enough to know they're reading. Finally, in the final position of this argument, the Government tells us: ′′ In one word, the provision of the bill is necessary because it explains to the National Assembly and the Government, but also to the public, the situation in which the Government is not voted in confidence. ′′ Who doesn't know what situation he's in? A government that has not been voted in trust is no longer a government. Who exists in this white world that he doesn't understand? You are really insulting the intelligence and the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia who are monitoring the work of this Parliament. Minister, after five or six speakers yesterday, you realized that we were right, come on, maybe now you'll understand and accept this amendment, don't get all confused, you're a professor of law school.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15417	Thank you. Do any of the MPs present want a word? Here, Mr. Arsic has just walked in and wants a word, and after that he will have a word with Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15418	The card was in place, but the electronic system was wrong. (President: I'm sorry, I have to respect the electronic system. ) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 19 of attitude 1 is quite fine. Each government, including governments in the Republic of Serbia, have the right to ask the National Assembly, which elects the government, trust for that policy that they have led from the government's constitution to the day of the proposal that the assembly declares confidence in the government. However, the 2nd position already shows a continuity, where the proposing, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, is intruding into the work of the National Assembly, where the time at which a debate on the government's trust can be held again is limited. It is no wonder when I see which party the minister is from and when I remember the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they gave us, Dragan Marsican, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the rest of the DOS, that the MP in the Republika Srpska Assembly could discuss for one minute and 27 seconds. In the second half of 2003, there was one debate about the government's trust or mistrust, call it whatever you want, requested by the Serbian Radical Party. On behalf of the promoter, Gordana Pop-Lazic was empowered, which presented the reasons why the government of Zoran Zivkovic and DOS should fall, and then the debate was held for 20 days and more, with these benches taking over ministers and changing one after the other after the speaker several times. If this remains, ministers can talk for 15 days about politics, that no MP has the right to criticise the government, or that government and the policy it leads, or any MP to defend that government policy. That's why it's completely illogical. One such restriction and abuse by the ruling majority is the continuity and abolition of democracy by those who allegedly advocate that democracy. Paragraph 3: "The government has been voted in confidence by majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. "It is quite understandable, for the government of the Republic of Serbia of 250, at least 126 MPs vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which wants to remain who it is at all times, Mr. Minister, must have 126 MPs behind it. This item 4. The bill says "A government that has not been voted can resign. "If no vote of confidence has been voted, what is voted upon, Mr. Minister? What's the score? What goes on, then it's mistrust, then it's 0-0, then we could translate it that way. So, if there is no trust, then the Assembly has voted for mistrust and then the government has to resign or, according to automation, by this law and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is considered to be resolved. Mr. Minister, this is one of the worst laws discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, you have two right to exit: one is to immediately withdraw this law and try to create a new one; the other is to continue the assembly with this debate, and when the debate is over, to withdraw the law, to take the stenograms from this session of the National Assembly, to take a good look at the discussions of the Serbian Radical Party MPs and to write, based on these discussions, a new law, which will certainly be much better than yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15419	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ćirkovic, if he is there, and then Mr Petar Jojic. Please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15420	It's understandable for the opposition to bring down the government. But it is incomprehensible to this text of the amendment, for the simple reason that both MPs, i.e. MPs are pushing for an amendment that has two positions. Indeed, the first position is optional, because voting on confidence in the government is an act of goodwill for the government. You cannot now conclude from that act that her goodwill must then be punished if trust is not voted out. If you do that, she'll never ask to vote on trust, because she's never asked for it before. That's the whole problem, if you're pretending to be Toshe so you don't understand. I would understand you on one condition, if you would write that the government is obliged to demand to vote on her trust and the other, to suffer the consequences of a vote of mistrust. But if you speak for the first time simply for volunteering, you leave it to the government to do or not to, you can't sanction it for that. Mr. Minister, since this thing can run to infinity, adopt this amendment. He's not going to produce anything, as he is now, that the government who cares about survival won't ask a question of trust and you can't carry out the sanctions you wanted. So once again, I insist on ending this rhubarb, adopt this, because it doesn't hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15421	Thank you, Mr. Cirkovic. The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15422	Ladies and gentlemen, if the Proposer considers it right, let him go out for a pay phone and let him tell the public and MPs the law on the Government of Comparative Law, from the European Union, the regulated issue as proposed in Article 19. The question is, I'm going back to it, what is the proposal's intention and purpose? However, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We can't interpret regulations here as to whom it suits. The regulations need to be interpreted as interpreted. The rules should be interpreted as acceptable in practice. In Article 93(5), point (b) is replaced by the following: The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised: "The government can question its trust in the National Assembly. "It is said in attitude 7 that the government, which has been voted out of confidence, which has resigned or has suspended the mandate for disbanding the National Assembly, remains on duty until the election of the new government. Who can interpret trust and mistrust? There are two institutes and two initiators in the vote of no confidence; whether it is initiated by parliamentarians or by the process of checking the issue the government is asking before parliament whether it has confidence or not. However, the moment the government that submitted a proposal to verify its authority does not get a majority in parliament, it is believed that the government has fallen, with the government having to stay to do its jobs and tasks until the election of the new government. Therefore, it seems to me that Article 4 is indeed unacceptable and has no meaning and no purpose whatsoever. The only thing I can doubt is that in the meantime, if the government raises a question of its trust, it can break up with the MPs and get a maneuvering space to allow it to continue its work in this way. It is logical, if the government itself has submitted an initiative and a proposal to vote on trust and not get most of it, that moment the government fell. There's no other logic. I don't know who's interpreting it differently, but the question here is quite clear. The point is that the position of the fourth member does not matter. The only thing that matters is that he saves, eventually, a government that would manage in certain conditions to extend its century. That is why I propose to Minister Loncaru, yet he is the minister of law school and I am not sure that he is 100% convinced that attitude 4 has stops here, that, as an expert and a man of craft, he accepts this amendment from the MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Gordana Comic. I think there's room, there's logic, because this in public won't know how to pass, and in practice, it's the only goal that the government can manage to extend its century.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15423	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15424	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will use this amendment to say a few words about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, and here I do not mean this Government of the Republic of Serbia, but generally about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government in Serbia. First of all, I will say that what is stated in the draft law in Article 19 is not questionable for me – that the Government can propose to the National Assembly that trust be voted upon. It is a normal instrument for the government in parliamentary democracies to which the government has a certain influence on the assembly, and most often it is followed by certain regulations concerning the fact that after that a certain time cannot be asked the question of trust in the government that has done so. It's not very controversial. I find it more controversial, generally, the government's relationship with the National Assembly in Serbia. In fact, I think that, despite the declared system, we have divided the authorities that were carried out by the 1990 Constitution really far from sharing power in Serbia. As much as the system divides the authorities, the separation of legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the condition of democracy, is so much to say that democracy is missing in Serbia. Namely, during the 1990s, when there was a power centre that was personified in the former president of Serbia, later Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, there was a clear domination of the executive power over the legislative authority. It's not something that's unknown. However, after five October changes, and especially after these changes occurred with Vojislav Kostunica's arrival and the DSS government, I believe that this jagged parliamentaryism in Serbia has been given, in practice, the full importance of a wrong system to divide power. I think that a series of events here has shown that we have a clear domination of the executive authority over the legislative one and that, in that sense, we as Parliament must do something not only about the adoption of laws on the National Assembly, but also about some of our relations and our dignity when the pressures of the government on this Parliament are at stake. I see first of all the pressures of the Government on this Parliament in the way we call on the agenda, the way laws come into the procedure of the National Assembly, and especially in something that is a kind of scandal, which has forced the MPs to vote here again, in due course, on the Labour Act. Since this is not a topic, I will not go on talking about it, but I think it is very important that we, as MPs, think about it, talk about it and make sure that, for the sake of democracy, for the principle of sharing power and for the dignity of the National Assembly and the state of Serbia itself, in some way the National Assembly, we raise parliamentary life to a level that is at least equal to the one who has executive power. I do not understand the behaviour of this government when it comes to the amendments to the opposition, especially when it comes to the DS amendments, precisely because we have tried to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions. Besides, the public knows and you probably know, Mr. Minister, how many times has the Democratic Party voted in favour of the proposed laws. I don't think it's hard to find an interest in what's good for Serbia, but we're double disappointed. First of all, we are disappointed by the fact that many of these laws are not implemented. The lawless conduct leads to inflation of the authority of the National Assembly and the state in which we live. On the other hand, we are disappointed that our amendment apriors are being rejected. Sometimes it's so illogical that if it wasn't sad, it would be really funny. In this law, we've come across a series of bad solutions. One of these solutions is what is proposed to Article 19. In fact, unless there's already any substance in this law, the law doesn't have to have this number of members. Simply write down as many members as one law has. Second, for the sake of respect of the National Assembly, throw out the law of those provisions that are not subject to legal matter, but the subject matter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is no need for the law to state what is stated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thirdly, this is a question for you, Ministers – when the Government asks to vote on trust, is the National Assembly obliged to do so, in accordance with the provisions of this law? Why do I ask you that? Because the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly clearly states that when a motion is submitted for a vote of no confidence to the Government or one of its ministers, the Assembly is obliged to discuss the subject within no less than three days and no longer than 15 days. As we have been informed, this majority will most likely refuse to discuss a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. In that case, this provision of the law would not have any meaning, since, as in the case of MPs, it would also mean that even when the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to vote on trust, which is a legitimate instrument, the National Assembly may reject it. Therefore, I ask you to accept this amendment, but above all, to accept those previous amendments. I am sorry for the other obligations that I could not be there to help my distinguished colleagues explain these amendments, but I would ask you to accept this, in order to make this law, which should be done to Serbia, acceptable to the majority in this House and to be beneficial to Serbia tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15425	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15426	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment to article 19 is very good and I think the minister should accept it, because this is how the proposed member is very bad and makes this law scandalous. The position of the first member – "The government can propose to the National Assembly to vote her trust" is prescribed by the Constitution and that is one normal thing. But it probably won't be a practice in this parliament in a long time. But that is why this last position 4 is so ill-written -- a government that is not given the vote of confidence can resign. So, it leaves the government's discretionary right to decide whether or not it will continue or not, unless her trust in the National Assembly is voted out, which is scandalous for every government. In particular, the bad explanation given in the bill is: ′′The government can question its trust in the National Assembly, i.e. ask the MPs to vote on whether they continue to enjoy their support. The government may have a decision by the National Assembly to give the Government a vote of confidence. The law norms that trust to the government is voted by 126 votes, i.e. Most of the total number of MPs. If the government doesn't have a vote of confidence, her mandate doesn't stop. The constitution does not provide a foothold for that. ′′ If there is anything that this government can hang on to, it will only hang on to survive, even if it is a failure in the Constitution. The question of the survival of the government remains in the domain of broader political relations and, at least formally, the government's assessment. ′′ So, the government makes its own decision, regardless of the Parliament's decision and the public opinion that exists, and we know that this public opinion is not for this government either, and that in this Parliament there is one artificial majority that maintains this government. Why am I saying that most of this is artificial? Because it has been manipulated and various cash transactions are provided by 128 MPs in this parliament. In case one government does not pass the law, the work report, the budget and the like, the government, by logic, must fall. We already have that example. He happened in March last year. Last month, we adopted a report on the work of the Coordination Centre, which is the province government of Kosovo and Metohija. The work report was not adopted. What's the consequence? The consequence is that the province government or the Coordination Centre is being replaced. What happened? The circuit government hasn't been replaced. There is a stalemate, a vacuum, and seven-eight months, and we have no Coordination Centre, nor do we have a province government to take care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Then overnight, before the New Year, again these same people, who have not received trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are also named by these same people as secretaries in the province's government or at the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? It is true. Why are these same people still secretaries? Why does the Coordination Centre work, if he has lost confidence in the National Assembly, unanimously, when all MPs of all parliamentary groups voted not to adopt that report? Because this Mr. Covic has three MPs in this assembly, which are three famous MPs who are due to provide these 128 in this House. Mr. Shormaz, 128 less 3 is 125. Go back to the first grade of elementary school, that's what a teacher learns. It's all that talk, the distraction of the public that doesn't lead to anything. We have one year of failure, a year where no single dinar has been invested in Kosovo and Metohija; so we also have a year of failure in Serbia, and if we interpret the law you write on our own despite this number of complaints from the MPs, and you still do not want to accept it, then we will have another year missed for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15427	Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15428	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 20 has a marginal title – the resignation of the Prime Minister. Government's resignation. Nice title, everything. The proposed text states: "The Prime Minister may resign, which he sends to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic. "Do not slow down the freedom of style to write laws, however, I think this formulation that the Prime Minister is sending to the National Assembly president and the President of the Republic is extremely unusual. It is not only the reason why we have submitted the amendment to paragraph 1, but this is the first amendment, which is not only about our desire to fix, which is, essentially, certain members of the law, but what we would like as a Democratic Party, to see in the government law. So, according to our proposal, attitude 1 changes and reads, "The Prime Minister can resign in writing and verbally. "We did not expect the ruling majority to agree with this because if you wanted such a spirit of control of the resignation institution, you would probably suggest it yourself. In that context, this is probably the only amendment that we assumed would come across with one clear argument – we don't want it, we just want written resignations. Unfortunately for us, there is essentially no reasoned debate on why the amendments proposed to the amendments are being rejected, so it remains to be concluded that this is not at all a congregation atmosphere, where we should cross the arguments for individual solutions, but about the intention not to accept any amendments at all. I would understand that with this amendment. Why do we propose that the Prime Minister may resign in writing or verbally? Because it would bring one seriousness into the law, and into our political life. We rarely hear not only from government officials or from institution officials at all, in the form of a threat or in some emotional performance – I resign, and then I change my mind. So, with full understanding of the responsible jobs now being done by the ministers, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister or any state official, we want it to be in the law to be a formulation that must be considered before the government's session, in public, in any form on the public stage, says the sentences - I resign. We have two kinds of public appearances. The first is - I will resign if that happens. It's unusual that we don't mind, that it's democratic that any official of any institution threatens with his resignation if something doesn't happen. It's not natural, it's not democratic and it doesn't show the maturity of someone who takes any function. I'm not just talking about the Prime Minister, especially the Prime Minister. We, as a society, looked at public resignations, verbally, if you remember, in television broadcasts. We are heirs to a one-party society, where there was an institution to withdraw the irrevocable resignation. I know it takes time for us all to determine what the dimensions of the responsibility of the public word are. The institution we propose in the law is that the government voluntarily says to itself that the Prime Minister can resign either orally or in writing and that it has equal weight. According to us, it would greatly improve what would be called the government's responsible attitude towards all the difficulties that this government and any government face in the next two mandates are certainly waiting for in Serbia. So, we did not expect this amendment to be accepted, but we were hoping that there would be discussions about it, simply to raise one topic to the public, so that perhaps a message from this assembly would contribute to responsible public behaviour. This clumsy form for us – that the Prime Minister sends to the President of the National Assembly, we reformed – to deliver it to the President of the National Assembly, and we also left it to the President of the Republic, for the simple reason it was the proposing's intention, although we do not see why the Prime Minister would resign to the President of the Republic. (President: You're out of time. ) And, of course, paragraph 3, which reads: ′′The Prime Minister may explain his resignation in the National Assembly. My colleagues will work it out. It is inadmissible, meaning that he resigns and explains it without MPs being able to respond. This attitude is dangerous, except it is unsustainable, because it implies disrespect for the Assembly, which only allows the Prime Minister who resigns without MPs being able to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15429	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15430	I have to say, this is the first time in our law we've ever used a term called ′′ sentic. You know, what you say on the street -- he sends a kiss and something like that, it can't be in the law. How does he resign? It's not working. The proof that you've overstepped some things is also in the Constitution itself. You have article 93, where it says: ′′Government and any member of the National Assembly can resign. ′′ Not saying – they can resign, but – resign. Here - sends; then specify whether with a tax mark, without a postmark, in two copies, recommended by mail or via a dove. Don't do that, please, and respect the National Assembly and one legislative technique that exists with us. What should concern us – where did you find the resignation to be submitted to the President of the Republic? I'm reading here, he says: "Government and any member of the National Assembly can resign. You could have extended it to the president, as a closer location, and as it goes, because everything that goes here in the National Assembly goes through the president. What did you bring in the President of the Republic? Why did you put him in? Out of which came the obligation to resign, a copy of the resignation to be sent, as you say, to the President of the Republic. You don't have the Constitution of authority to do that. It's a terrible failure. I don't know how you could write this. And this is what you wrote in your second attitude – the National Assembly at the first next session, which takes place within seven days of the day of your resignation... Please, this is the matter that enters the way the National Assembly works and decides, and that is the matter that is regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This position 2 is not a place in the law on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Do not complain, if the Rules of Procedure brings the National Assembly, if the Law is passed by the National Assembly, and the matter is about the same, then we will do something in the law, and we will do something in the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. There are areas that go to the Rules of Procedure and there are areas that have to go into the law, and as a help you could be served by a member of the Constitution who tells you that the Rules of Procedure is governed by the way of decision, mode of work and the rights of Members of Parliament. So there is this constitutional basis that regulates that the Assembly will and what the Assembly will do when it resigns. Why the seven-day deadline? Where did you get the authority to do that? What's scariest is that if the Prime Minister resigned, he has the right to explain it. It's always said that resignation is a personal act. The minister's personal act if he resigned, if the entire government has signed his resignation, then it is a set of personal individual acts of government members, and if the Prime Minister has resigned, there is the touch point with something that looks like the government's office system of office. As a rule, when resigning, no explanation is given. This is completely unnecessary for you here. That's why we've submitted another amendment, and if you're going to force it to push through and that we're listening here to someone who has resigned, which you can't agree with this minister, which has obstruction, which has this and that, that's the other thing. If he has the right to speak, then the MPs have the right to speak. The National Assembly is not a one-way organ. On the occasion of all that is on the agenda of the National Assembly, a search is opening, and this is the phase and the debate is under way. There must be another, both third and fourth sides, all political options. It's a shame we don't hear the political option of the Serbian Force movement -- Zivadin Lekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15431	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15432	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to point out this part of the debate that discusses whether it is necessary to open a discussion if the Prime Minister resigns. Simply, the business provisions are very simple and clearly written: ′′The National Assembly at the first next session finds itself without a search,” means Article 202 paragraph 4, “that the Government, or a member of the Government, has resigned, and that is not the decision to make. ′′ It is not possible to discuss the Rules of Procedure. In this regard, it is not clear where the provisions would be drawn to open the debate, as it is said in the Rules of Procedure that the Prime Minister who resigns has the right to explain it. So it's not an imperial norm. There was talk here about how harmonised the Rules of Procedure and the Law are. We see here that, simply, the norm in law and norm in the Rules of Procedure is fully in line. We'll see after one amendment that tries to impose an obligation to conduct a discussion. As to the fact that it is possible to resign orally, I believe it could cause major problems, especially in a situation where the President of the Republic and Prime Minister are from different parties. I think it's clearer and it's safer that there's a written clue that the resignation is filed. If there is political tension between the two institutions, it is possible for the public to pass the news that someone whispered that he resigned, this one later says he did not file it and that a political debate and debate should be opened. I think the solution to the bill is that it is necessary to resign better in writing. Once again, it is clearly said in the Rules of Procedure that, without a search, it is found in the National Assembly of resignation and that he who endures it can, but does not have to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15433	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that this bitter cake has fallen to this very minister, because in the extremely bad government there are a few ministers who deserve respect, but it goes with the minister's office and what to do to him. Such a law certainly cannot pass without explanation and without discussion of MPs, especially Serbian Radical Party MPs. The amendment to Article 20, which is at issue, says: ′′The Prime Minister may resign in writing and orally. The Prime Minister shall resign in writing to the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. Well, why didn't you go further, and tell the head of the People's Office, this yellow one, I don't know what it's called and anyone else. The Prime Minister resigned to the National Assembly because the National Assembly and elected him on a proposal from the ruling coalition. The explanation is a special story. It's got to be read. An explanation of why the amendment is not accepted: ′′The written form of resignation has no doubt a evidence value and represents an effective means of establishing legal certainty. ′′ Well, in which country in the world, if the Prime Minister resigns to the National Assembly, who chose it, besides giving it orally, he also needs a written form, because it has a questionable proof value? Well, the moment he resigns and the assembly adopts his resignation, his term of office ends. Right now we're going back to all those previous members whether or not they can. His mandate ceases and does not require any written form, except for the stenogram, which is normally held at each session of the Assembly. Since the Prime Minister's resignation as a consequence has ended the government's term of office, that the Prime Minister independently makes a decision to resign, independent of the position of the other members of the government, we are in a situation where when the Prime Minister resigns, one of the ministers can say, "I'm sorry, you haven't consulted me, I won't accept your resignation, and I won't lose my ministerial portfolio because you resigned." Well, it's amazing. Finally, it is logical for the Prime Minister to be given the opportunity to resign, and thus to suspend the government's mandate, explained in the National Assembly. I wish the current Prime Minister had resigned, so instead of today we're discussing these amendments, he can explain up to 12 o'clock at night, or 24 o'clock. Believe me, everyone here would sit here and listen to the explanation and at 24.00 would accept his resignation and thus Serbia's agony would certainly end. That's why I'm proposing that the Minister adopt this amendment. I have to ask the chairman, or whoever will be chairing tomorrow, that at 12:00, but not tonight at 24:00, but tomorrow at 12:00 p.m., the MPs will have to attend the Committee's meeting, given that it is very serious things that the Committee will discuss, so the chairman will take tomorrow at 12:00 a.m. break from one hour to be able to attend the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15435	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15436	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear citizens of Serbia, Article 20. The bill is also one of the very inaccurate and vague members. Of course, the government had to make a precise and clear legislative proposal, given the importance of the institution for which the law is being prepared and proposed to the National Assembly, and ultimately it should also vote. The Serbian Radical Party, as well as any previous amendments that we have raised behind this speaker, which my colleagues have spoken about, has objections to this particular member, which is not to be drawn up precisely and concisely, but shows the full nature of the law that the government has submitted to the National Assembly. If the government proposes to the National Assembly legal proposals that are inaccurate, vague, of course, in the application of these laws, if the majority adopt such laws, as it has been in practice so far for many previous laws that have been passed, then these legal proposals can be misused, and will go to the detriment of Serbian citizens. We, as the strongest political party on the premises of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that in the next elections, the SRS will be the one who will be the authority, because it is obvious that the ruling coalition in its legislative proposals does not aim to pass precise and clear laws, which will regulate the areas by which it has proposed, which will solve those main issues in the Republic of Serbia, but rather the figures that you are talking about... What does it mean to say that this National Assembly has made over 80 legal proposals? And how much of these legal proposals are applicable in practice? How many amendments we have made not only for this legislative proposal, but also for previous laws, in order to help make these legislative proposals clear and in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative act. This bill in many cases has just been made up contrary to the highest legislative act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This article, which you have predicted, is of course not good, as this legislative proposal has not been well done either. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted amendments to try to make this legal proposal better, as it should be, because the issue of the legislative proposal on the government of the Republic of Serbia is being resolved, on a single institution. Most importantly, if you continue with this practice, you will not have the support of 15% of Serbian citizens in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15437	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15438	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 20. The draft law states: ′′The Prime Minister may resign, which he sends to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic. ′′ But, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic is not a constitutional category in this concept. Obviously, the promoter does not want to respect the Constitution. We can't make up any more words right now -- the president of the GGG party, or any company, or any head of the parliamentary group, etc. We can't do that. If the Constitution states that the Government and any member of the National Assembly can resign, then resignation or dismissal from the office of the Prime Minister withdraws the entire government's resignation, but there is no word anywhere about the President of the Republic. Who put the President of the Republic here now, past the Constitution? Who's authorized to do that? How can the Proposer go before 250 MPs? Well, these are MPs who have certain experience. There are people who are graduate lawyers, there are professors, lawyers, experts. Simply to conclude, all are qualified to read Article 93, paragraph 8, in which it is said - the resignation is passed on to the president of the National Assembly. There's no President of the Republic anywhere. Where are we pushing the President of the Republic past the Constitution? However, in the explanation given by the promoter on page 8, there is no word about what will happen to what someone said here – we send this one now, or – we send a shipment to the President of the Republic and to the President of the Assembly. What is now the role of the President of the Republic, what will the President of the Republic do with what he has now received his resignation, when he does not lead any procedure, has no authority. He took note of something that he could receive from the newspapers and the "Official List" to receive, because that's how it comes out; he only has the right to read or be notified by telephone or read a stenogram from the Assembly without being pushed into the law by the Constitution, he can't. He's not a constitutional category here, and I'm just surprised that the promoter didn't refer to the provisions of the Constitution. It appears here that the promoter does not want to respect the existing Constitution. We would agree that there may have been a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that if it were so normised in the Constitution, this proposal in Article 20 might have a foothold. This is pointless and unacceptable, and it is quite logical to accept the amendment addressed to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15439	The word has an MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15440	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I would like to refer to the discussion of the predecessor, MP of Mr. Jojic, as the amendment tabled by Mrs. Gordana Comic is being discussed here. The fact is that in our amendment, we have left the part that implies that the written resignation is delivered to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic, but I must say that I fully respect your position which speaks of it being delivered only to the President of the National Assembly. Anyway, I don't think this should be a particular issue of dispute, but I respect your attitude and, from the point of view of constitutional matter, I think you're absolutely right. As far as our amendment is concerned, we really think that this article's proposal as you put it in the bill is not good and that we need to change our first position. So, there was the possibility of oral resignation, and that is the situation when tomorrow the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia would come to the National Assembly and resign here before the MPs. I must remind you that the president of the National Assembly, Dragan Marscanin, has resigned. In this context, it is quite possible for the Prime Minister or the president of the National Assembly to explain his resignation. It simply makes no sense, nor does it make any sense to prohibit him from speaking orally to explain his resignation. I do not agree with my colleague Palalic in the way of interpreting Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because Article 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly state that the Government or a member of the Government resigns, in writing, and that it can explain it. Here, the very clear explanation refers to the written form, because the resignation is also in writing. So this does not apply to his being able to resign, and then, in the function of some later political outsmarts, to come before the National Assembly, to tell what he wants, and without the possibility of the National Assembly to discuss it, which you correctly interpreted as being so in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In that sense, I think our rules of procedure should change anyway, because in this way, practically, we are still on track for what I said in my first presentation, and these are the constant advantages of the executive power over the legislative authority. I think that we all agree that it is wrong for 250 MPs to sit here and that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, does not matter, to explain their resignation in the way he wants it (and that may be an explanation that will contain a series of lies about the work of the National Assembly, MPs, political parties that make up parliament), and you do not have the opportunity to go out and respond to such an act in front of the National Assembly and the public. Therefore, I think the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure here must be strictly, as I said, and the reasoning refers only to the form in which the resignation is given. How can the explanation be in a different form than the resignation? Come on, think about it. How is it possible for an explanation to be in a different form than the resignation? Since you have already mentioned the Rules of Procedure, and I very much respect you as chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, I would like to hear from you the following question – did this National Assembly and this parliamentary majority violate the Rules of Procedure, article 199, which reads: "The National Assembly session to discuss the confidence of the Government or the individual member shall be held at the earliest date of three days and no later than 15 days after the submission of the motion for a non-confidential vote"? A motion was tabled here for a vote of no confidence two months ago, 60 days ago, and I think the ruling majority is ready not only to violate the Rules of Procedure on deadlines, but also to reject a request for a debate on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or a single minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That all points to poor parliamentary practice. I think the rule of government of the Republic of Serbia over the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has taken a worrying dimension. I think that if this continues, we cannot talk about democracy in Serbia and that, in addition to the legislative authority, Serbia is seriously threatened and judicial independence. I think that, in this direction, the Democratic Party of Serbia has taken inaccessible steps towards monopolising and centralising the overall government, past the Constitution and beyond the procedures and practices known to free and democratic societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15441	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15442	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have to re-evaluate, as an MP of the DS, the fact that we have already presented several times behind this pay phone, which is that the language in which this law is written is irreparable. As in the state administration law, we have a lot of disagreements, misunderstandings, trade failures. Although we have given up the amendment to amend the law on state administration, we have tried in some way to amend it, to justify it legally and to make a law that we know the Republic of Serbia should, that the Government should, that Parliament should, that we all need it. We therefore expect, in a certain sense, the understanding and support of the ruling majority over some amendments that we really do not think are political but purely professional, therefore, to correct the law, which we think is something that needs to be adopted and adopted. But, of course, when you pass the law, it is extremely important that it is applicable, that every provision of it can live in the fullest sense of that word, therefore, that it produces in the legal system the consequences that each of us wants that provision to have. That is why it is certainly completely unclear what it means in the first position that the Prime Minister is sending his resignation to the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic. The term ′′ has simply never appeared in any law before and as a legal term has not been recognised in legal terminology, nor in the legislator's term. It's very vague and can mean that it's sent by courier, signed, unsigned, mail, it can be recommended. It's simple, and it's too serious to regulate the prime minister's resignation with such an unserious term. By the way, you're causing a misunderstanding when he's sending that resignation, because you're not saying anywhere that that resignation means destroying the government itself. Then there's the question of what's going on with the ministers. I'm not sure everyone would agree at this point if the prime minister decided to resign, to deprive himself of his ministerial post, because I'm not sure we'd have the hope of having a longer or shorter life span to be ministers again. So that's the problem; the prime minister's resignation automatically implies the government's resignation. The Democratic Party's amendment provides that it is possible to resign in writing and verbally. There are only two possible ways. If it is submitted, whether written or orally, we do not see why the prime minister needs this resignation to explain to the National Assembly, for the simple reason why the debate is not opened. It's clear to everyone. If you do not open the debate, there is no reason for you to question the person’s personal position at the head of the government, that is, to ask him to explain it to you or to give him the right to explain it to you and thus simply usurp the National Assembly for a speech which, at that time, after resigning, does not have any political weight. This is another proof that throughout this law, through its provisions, it is literally leading to the state that the government dominates the National Assembly. I must say, this leads to the association that there is a lot of misrepresentation of the National Assembly, a misrepresentation of the Members of the People's Parliament, and therefore a lack of respect for the will of the citizens. Therefore, I think that, in any case, the amendment should be accepted and the provisions contained in Article 20 should therefore be clarified accordingly. I suggest that the National Assembly accept the DS amendment to Article 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15443	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15444	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 20 should regulate how the Prime Minister resigns. But in Section 1, in the third word, you can see the intricacies of whoever wrote this law. That position 1 says -- the Prime Minister can resign to the president of the National Assembly. Who can't? That's what you should have written here, too. Even the chairman of a local committee of some political parties is clear that the resignation is filed. Who? The Prime Minister resigns to the president of the National Assembly, not -- the Prime Minister can resign, which he sends to the president of the National Assembly. It shows how much there is no profession at all, no right in this as you wrote this law. It can be used – the president of the Republic of Serbia, but the question is why. Will the President of the Republic of Serbia continue the work of the Prime Minister, so we need to inform him? He does not have the constitution of the powers given, so that the part concerning the president of the Republic of Serbia is completely excessive. Instruction is also seen in Section 2, which says that the National Assembly in the first session, which takes place within seven days of the day of receipt of the resignation, without debate receives knowledge. The National Assembly, when it comes to the government's resignation, accepts nothing but the resignation of the Prime Minister. It's the only way to do it. When it comes to the fact that the Prime Minister can explain his resignation to the National Assembly, why are we abolishing the right of MPs to discuss his resignation? Mr. Minister, I told you about a little less than an hour ago that you are getting out – either to withdraw this law immediately or to study the discussions of the MPs of the SRS, to withdraw the law later and to write a new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15445	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15446	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as your previous legislative projects, and this legal project is not clear, concise, it is not professionally written, and even has many language flaws. That's what we've been talking about for the past two or three days. Tonight, the SRS MPs point to all your failures, with the aim of improving what can be improved, to improve this legislative project, which is very important for the state of Serbia. Unfortunately, here, the assembly majority is committing a real torture over the opposition, in violation of, above all, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the conduct of the session. But because of the importance of this legal project, we Serbian radicals will endure working, if necessary, day and night to let the citizens of Serbia hear what mistakes these are in this legislative project and what it is that should be removed. For example, Article 20 says, as my predecessors said, that the Prime Minister can resign, which he sends to the president of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic. First, this - the President of the Republic is an extra-constitutional category, i.e. according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 93, this is not foreseen. Here may be your failure not yet to get the Prime Minister or ministers to inform the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic, and so should Solana or Carly del Ponte, perhaps that would be comprehensive. It would be a lot more comprehensive if you'd let Solana know, too. Unfortunately, this solution in Article 20 is, as I said, unconstitutional and this solution from Article 1 so it should be deleted. Finally, the government of the Republic of Serbia no longer has the reputation to represent the people of the Republic of Serbia in this way. There are no reputations, because there are major affairs behind your ministers, especially Deputy Prime Minister Labus, Finance Minister Dinkic, Minister of Education, who, unfortunately, besides all these affairs, as if they were not even "bought fleas", simply crossing from affair to affair, explaining that someone is lying and not suing who is lying. So, it would be realistic and fair if that minister who's been written about in the newspaper, who the public knows, simply sues the one who slanders the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This way, we move from affair to affair, the citizens of Serbia are getting harder and harder to live, and that's how it's going to go all the way to that moment until this assembly majority loses citizens' support. I hope it will be soon, and perhaps Tuesday, when we discuss the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that by accepting the amendments to Article 20 and the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Mircic, on Article 20, would improve this legislative project and so much as mitigate the doubts that exist in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15447	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I once again state the position of the Democratic Party, which we said in the principle debate, that this law was written in a rather incomprehensible language. It is indeed a precedent that, according to Article 20, the Prime Minister can resign, which he sends, etc. I don't know if anyone has had a chance to see one of these terms, and especially the Prime Minister is resigning to the President of the Assembly or the President of the State. That, as far as DS is concerned, is something that is absolutely unacceptable that exists in the bill. My predecessors also referred to heading 3, so the Prime Minister could explain his resignation at the National Assembly. If we want to be precise, and if we want to look at the explicit statement here: "The Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly", if you already wanted to, it was more logical to say that the Prime Minister can explain his resignation at the first next session of the Serbian Parliament, because "in the National Assembly", if you want to interpret it in various ways, it can also mean that he can address journalists in the National Assembly building and he did his job and went home. Given how the Prime Minister is and how confused he is, I wouldn't be surprised if he walked in the door, resigned to the porters and went home and did his job. However, my colleagues are getting me a resignation. As far as he's concerned, he did his job under article 20 of this bill. The second question is, what my predecessors said, what will the other ministers do. Will Mladjan Dinkic say – President, have you consulted with some of us, etc.? Therefore, we find it absolutely pointless that this position exists, for the simple reason that there is no possibility for this debate to be conducted in the Rules of Procedure. We simply want the Prime Minister to come, explain his resignation without the MPs saying a word. It is not only contained in this article, but also in previous members. Absolutely misbehaved by the Serbian Parliament, demeaning. Simply, the proposer wants the bill to put the government itself in a dominant position in relation to parliament. According to us, it's absolutely unacceptable. Once again, I appeal to the promoter that he truly understands our changes in order to correct a very bad law proposed by the Serbian government. A good part of the ruling coalition colleagues realizes that the law is very bad, but for reasons they do not want to suggest to the minister and his colleagues in the ministry that they are making an effort in this direction to accept our amendments, it is absolutely incomprehensible for me. Since the ruling coalition has asked for work, and once again I warn the chairman that there are not enough MPs in the hall for uninterrupted work, please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, establish a quorum, so that we can continue to work uninterrupted and continue the debate on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15449	Mr. Radosavljevic, you are not authorized and your proposal cannot be adopted. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Comić, did you insert your card? National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15450	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic asked, under Article 82, to check the quorum, since he expressed doubts about the consent of the electronic report on monitors and what is seen in the lines. Otherwise, it is the right of MPs, because it is treated as an invitation to the Rules of Procedure, but if we want to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, I apologize that our MP, Alexander Radosavljevic, has addressed this request and I repeat the request to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15451	We're trying very hard to respect the Rules of Procedure. Since you're an authorised representative, we're about to determine the quorum. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please confirm the quorum. Insert your cards into the identification units. I understand we have a quorum to work with. Mr. Mircic asked for a word about the amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15453	In principle, the Serbian Radical Party cited its objections to Article 20, where we would like to amend the provisions of this member. This article is about the right of the Prime Minister, who follows from the Constitution and the Law on Government to resign, but this right is achieved by resigning to the National Assembly and that is something that is in line with the existing legislation. However, the draft law in paragraph 3 says that despite the resignation submitted, the Prime Minister has the right to explain the resignation. Surely, the legislator thought about this way of defining the right of the Prime Minister to further explain or explain his resignation in general means a written path. However, if it remains like this until the end undefined, then it foresees the possibility that the Prime Minister will be an exception that will be able to explain his resignation to parliament when he resigns from the speaker. It is then an area or part of matter regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, because no one can be excluded in his rights, especially in the ability to explain his resignation, if the MPs do not have the right to debate the resignation. Here some colleagues have called for a real political situation, i.e. the possibility that the Prime Minister, with an additional explanation, would explain the reason for his resignation. In line with the political reality in which we now live, what if the Prime Minister, based on such an undefined and undefined opportunity to explain his resignation, comes out for this speaker, explains his resignation (I am talking about the current political situation and the current Prime Minister) by saying that his coalition partners are forcing him to surrender Kosovo and Metohija? How will we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party support this argument and seek the opposite solution? How most will be able, and I think most people are so in the mood that the president can't in any way force himself into such an act. It can force him under this provision the President of the Republic; they're different thoughts, but, let's not spread the story. If his coalition partners, or government representatives, his associates, have a different view on the status and status issue of the Serbia-Montenegro community and tomorrow the Prime Minister, because of the inability to agree on political issues, which are very important for all of us, comes out and resigns, what will we do? Should we stop that resignation? No discussion, the Prime Minister will further explain his coercion to such an act. It's a political reality. If you take it as an example, then you have to look at it as it is. We have been denied in such a situation to come out, as MPs, Serbian radicals, whose position on Kosovo and Metohija is recognizable and clear, to say that in such situations we are giving full support for such views and political moves to the Prime Minister. Secondly, you make one exception in the whole bill. First, it's simply impossible or almost impossible to replace the government, and secondly, it turns out it's impossible to replace the Prime Minister, except in cases where he resigns. Even the President of the Assembly cannot have such privileges, although I would personally and intimately want to be protected as a sacred animal in India, so that no one can protect him in such a democratic way as to lead the Assembly, to present to the public how tyranny or, rather, knowingly, in breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that regulate the work of the Assembly can cause us to discuss until late hours what it is and to suggest clearly that it cannot exist so undefinedly and cannot, at the very least, be applied, and can be major consequences. For that reason, we are now also talking to you about this article 20. In the provision following Article 3, there should be a provision that if the Prime Minister or any member has the right to explain his resignation from the speaker, it must not be the right and the possibility to deny MPs, not for the reasons why, as I have stated in the case, we would say in favour of the Prime Minister, but as any MP would have the right to speak his own opinion from this speaker. It would be a benefit to Serbia, and what you do more, paraphrasing that Latin saying – which is allowed to God, or Jupiter, is forbidden to the ox, and you can in most ways support whatever way you want and whatever you want to play a part in that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15454	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15455	Here's another proof that what you wrote in article 20 is not the matter that should be in this law. I must remind you that the constitutional basis for this law is Article 91(3). It is said: "Organization and mode of work and government decision-making are governed by law and rules of procedure. "As you can see, resignation issues do not concern the organisation and way of working and deciding the government. When you're stuck putting something like this into the law, of course we've had to submit an amendment to point to you and over-authorization, but also to point to the inability of what you've written and what's contained in point 3 of the amendment. The 3rd position says the Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. The way of work and decision of the National Assembly is regulated by another member of the Constitution, and on the basis of that member of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted and we now have provisions in the Rules of Procedure concerning the resignations of the Prime Minister, i.e. the resignations of the Government. Since you feel that when someone resigns that it is a personal, moral act, you are now moving on and you say within those deadlines set out in Article 2 or 3 – it should be stated at the session of the National Assembly, so you go further and say that the Prime Minister has the right to explain his resignation. I must return you to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There are few points of the agenda and questions at all that can be discussed in the National Assembly without discussion. To be more specific, there are only a few questions for which the National Assembly decides without debate. They are precisely mentioned in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise this Rules of Procedure, because it absolutely does not correspond with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia without talking about a practice that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To all of this you add another solution that is extremely pointless. It is pointless because it is not the matter of the Law on Government but of the matter of regulations that should regulate the way of work and decision in the National Assembly. If you're already going to give some space to the Prime Minister to explain something, then as soon as something here is explained, there must be an open debate. If someone wanted the government law to resolve the status issues of the government, the government's existence, the government's looks and to extend the interpretation of the right to comment on the provisions of the Constitution, which could not be commented or copied, in order to make a single continent allegedly about the government, then you made an even bigger mistake. Why? You don't have a decree here when the term of office ends, the day of the term of office ends. You don't. Here you say in Section 2 - The National Assembly at the first next session (you have given some time), without debate, receiving the notice that the Prime Minister has resigned and thus the government has suspended its mandate. The day that it was established is the day when the government's mandate ended, but if you allow it to explain its resignation in the National Assembly, then you must accept our amendment that has the second part, and he says so – words are added, and then the debate opens, and after the debate finds that the government's mandate has ceased. You didn't notice this, you just paid attention to it – the Prime Minister should be given an explanation of why he got angry, what was difficult for him, who didn't listen to him, that he couldn't do it anymore, etc. And the end of the story, done the job. You forgot that when it's being determined, because in attitude 2, you're saying that the finding is done without debate... (President: Time.) ) Although he opened the debate, we must further encourage him to resign, encourage him, and nothing is dangerous about his resignation. That's a good act. It's a moral act...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15456	Mr. Krassic... Thank you. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now on this amendment to Article 20, and you have seen so far, all our wishes and intentions are to direct this law towards being in line with the Constitution, that is, with the comments of practice and to be feasible and meaningful. A colleague, Mircic, asked for the words "and then the debate" to be opened in article 20 after the words "The National Assembly" were added. He wanted to improve this member, and you heard from his comments and all of our comments that it is necessary to enable MPs to give their comments when resigning, that is to say, to coordinate those two findings, whether the resignation is okay or not, and whether there is some logic about the resignation. You have not justified these legal provisions by language or legal comments. We're trying to fix that with our amendments, and you probably don't even want to give your judgment about it. You can see it from these comments, or comments you showed tonight, and it's a quorum. You cannot set up one basic system of work, that you have a quorum, and that is more than 85 MPs. This time uncertainty is being passed through the entire law, as well as through Article 20. Before your group came to power, or quasi-democratic, you spoke differently; you spoke of these laws and this article as a completely different vision of democracy. That vision is broken not in the democratic field, and you point out that by the way you act, you act, and so also tonight, it's obvious. No one can replace you, or no one can do the shift, because you confirm that with your performances, or you want it not to happen, which is logical. I think that's gonna happen soon. Hard for Serbia with your authority. You are unable to fulfill the elemental minimum. These laws that the Government defends are controversial, because the general position of the Government in relation to the Republic Assembly is that the Government is exerting various pressures, and these pressures are evident and they feel; this system of factorying laws that will not be applied tomorrow, for one simple reason, and you know what the reason is – because you will not be allowed to do so. We had to bring first, most likely, the constitution, and you didn't have the strength or the opportunity, and you have no comment today when it's going to happen, and probably time will show. We know that the government will be replaceable, and as soon as these sponsors of yours, your employers, and we think of Solana and all those you respect, appreciate and respect... We know that you have another story for them, but then. What we're doing is probably going on account of them, because they're not going to suffer you, probably in a period that's ahead of you. I'd do another tour; you remember that masquerade, he says -- they're called old, they're invited young, and the board president's getting old and he's chosen to represent the emperor. It's probably that emperor in your memoirs and in your idea to experience all that you need... (President: You're out of time. All your shops are insecure. Your laws are inconclusive. Work on the quantum system, hoping it will dissipate quality. That can't happen. There are many hungry mouths in Serbia, many bare and bare children in Serbia, which will lead to your collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15458	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, by amendment to Article 20. The bill, submitted by Serbian Radical Party MP Mr. Milorad Mircic, is required to add the words "and then the debate is opened, and after the debate it is concluded that the government's mandate has ceased". So, Article 20, which should regulate the resignation of the government and the Prime Minister, in this position 2 provides for the National Assembly to hold a session within seven days of the resignation, to accept the resignation to knowledge, but without debate. Then the question is, why is the session even scheduled? On the other hand, if the Prime Minister who resigns allows this member to open the debate, this Article 20 should be so conceived as to allow a debate involving the National Assembly, as regards the resignation of the Prime Minister. So, on the basis of all this that the MPs of the SRS have said about the amendments to this draft law that the government has passed to the National Assembly, it can be said that, on the case of this member, you do not apply the basic objectives for the adoption of a new government law, as you have explained. Because the first and primary objective of adopting a new law should be, as you stated here in the basic objectives, that the clearer offices apply to the National Assembly and Government. It is necessary to clearly separate the legislative, i.e. the power of the National Assembly, and the executive power, i.e. Government. In this case, the government gives itself the right, if you pass one of these laws, to interfere with the legislative authority, which, of course, cannot be a principle in any democratically regulated state. The laws you propose, in the way you bring them, put the government first and minimise the legislative authority of the National Assembly. It is because of what my colleagues have said, SRS MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic, who have presented many arguments that require that Article 20 of Article 3 be changed, that you will have the opportunity to correct this imprecise, ill-conceived and regulated law by adopting the SRS amendment, which Mr Milorad Mircic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15460	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15461	Ladies and gentlemen, the resignations of the government and the Prime Minister are constitutional categories and are provided for in Article 93(7). The Constitution. However, the Constitution only foresees this possibility, but does not give a concrete explanation of the government's resignation procedure and the Prime Minister's. According to this article, there are two ways of resigning the bill proposed by the government to the Assembly. One way to resign from the Government is to impose an obligation on the National Assembly, following the resignation of the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly, on the National Assembly, to schedule a session within seven days, where the resignation of the Government will be established without debate. Another option is to establish the government's resignation with the debate, where the mandater will be given the opportunity to explain his resignation. If we imagine the first option, or what it would look like, then it would look like this -- if the president of the assembly had scheduled a session, MPs would come to the assembly, the president would inform parliament that the prime minister had resigned, that the government was resigning, that it was therefore resigning, giving the prime minister his word, the prime minister did not want to give the explanation and the assembly was breaking up, and the government was breaking up, and the question was why the assembly session was even scheduled. Is it possible to schedule a session of the Assembly so that MPs could see the Prime Minister, that they wanted him so much, that they wanted to see him in the congregation home? If he resigned, and if we are in principle holding the position that resignation is a personal act, then there is no need for an explanation. And if we go after the right of the prime minister to explain his resignation, then it is logical that MPs also have the right to give their opinion on the resignation. Why does it matter? As set out in Article 20. The bill is believed by the government to have finished its job and that there is an end to the government's resignation story. But it's not like that. We know from practice that after the government's resignation or the new elections, it goes on four, five, six months before the election of the new government. So, the government that resigned continues to hold its post until the election of the new government. Now, if the prime minister who resigned from this house to explain his resignations and state some of his reasons for resigning, or the entire government, then it is logical that MPs also have the right to report for the discussion and give their opinion on those resignations, especially because the government in resignations will serve as government until the election of the new government. Finally, throughout the proposal for this law, it implements the intensities of the promoter to assume on himself those ingenuities belonging to the Assembly. The government is trying to regulate through this bill what should be in the law on the Serbian Parliament or the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly -- how the Assembly will act in this particular case at the time of the government's resignation. She did so in the previous article, where trust was questioned in the Government, in Article 18, where it was decided on mistrust of the Government and there are also many institutes that are exclusively related to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and which absolutely do not belong to this matter, or belong to them in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15462	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15463	Ladies and gentlemen, in all parliamentary democracies in the world, there is a strict division of three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial. The legislative authority itself is a little more equal than the other two, because it is in parliaments that swears and judges, the bearers of the judiciary, and three hours ago we spoke about it, so in parliaments before the MPs, they swear an oath and the first minister, the prime minister, and ministers. Thus, everywhere in the world, except for us, it is strictly made sure that one branch does not take over and enter into the powers of another branch of government, except, of course, with us. With us, some ministers can literally demean and harass the MPs, even if they are fined, and nothing at all. The only thing that can happen to us is that the authorities of the legislative government are taking over, even if the judicial authority takes over the authority of the legislative authority in part, and that no one in this country has a headache. And further, when we come to the situation that the Prime Minister and the Government resign, then, if you adopt this law, we will bring the MPs into a position to just nod their heads and so the government, which has sold out all the factories, such as ours, can automatically resign and just nod - okay, you resigned. Some ministers can rob the state as it happened and as it happens with us, the affair after the affair, as it happens to find four billion dollars in Cyprus, so all of a sudden they're gone, they're gone to some Virgin Islands, which can't be found in the atlas, or on a geographical map, but these very high ministers have found them, and nothing. He can go back to the state with that money and buy all the factories, open up national savings banks and other banks, and nothing. There may also be a bunch of affairs opening up, and nothing, and then the Prime Minister will come and say – ladies and gentlemen, I am resigning, and we are going to nod, because this law does not allow us to open the debate and to discuss these reasons for which the minister, or the Prime Minister, or the entire government, resigns. National MP Milorad Mircic, by amendment, asks for Article 20(3) to be amended. (and Article 2 says – The National Assembly at the first next session, which is held within seven days of the resignation, without discussion is receiving notice that the Prime Minister has resigned) behind the words ′′ to the National Assembly, and then the debate is opened, and after the debate finds that the mandate of the Government has ceased. With this addition to Article 20, by amendment to Article 20, that Article 20 is making so little sense and it is possible for Serbian citizens to finally understand why ministers are resigning. Many ministers from this government, like many from the previous, once the judiciary is doing its job, will certainly be behind bars, and the legislative authority will soon, as of Tuesday, as this government will certainly drop if you allow the debate, the ruling majority, and that the citizens of Serbia will know all the reasons why we have applied for no confidence in the government; if not, soon, the people, not to tell you what kind of stickes, will drive you away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15464	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15465	Dear Ministers, therefore, as we have pointed out on the amendment of Mrs Comic, a similar or same argument can be applied for this amendment, not because of the content of a number of amendments, but precisely because of the shortcomings that the bill has. In the event that the amendment of the Democratic Party, or Gordana Comic, is not adopted, we will certainly support this amendment, because we do not believe that there is room for the solution provided for in Article 20. It's a bill of law. So I think there are two key issues here: one is the position of the National Assembly in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is the constitutionality of this law. I believe that in terms of the constitutionality of this law we have two kinds of provisions. One kind of provision concerns that this law is in some way, I cannot say that it is contrary to the Constitution, but it certainly does not comply with the provisions of the Constitution. On the other hand, this law also contains provisions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This law gives the Government of the Republic of Serbia powers that it does not have under the Constitution. I would really like to ask Mr. Minister to explain, among other things, where in this law there is also a provision of article 6, i.e., a pardon, a later member, which speaks of the control of constitutionality and legality, by the Government, acts brought by units of local self-government. There is no such thing in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is contrary to the very principle of local self-government, to which we as a democratic state are required. It's not in Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has no possibility that the government is thus controlling local self-government. Point 7 speaks of overseeing the work of ministries and special organisations, but it is impossible for the government to exercise such a kind of control over local self-government. It wasn't even in the 1980s, I really don't know if it was before, I was too young to know, but I think in 2005 in democratic Serbia and Serbia we want to build there's no room to control this kind of government towards local self-government. Because, therefore, and the idea of local self-government, which is a bit controversial and suspicious in our country because of the outdated provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the Law on assets in the possession of the Republic, this idea is questionable for its achievement, but it is not necessary to take a step further towards not having that idea come true with us. This is, in the end, some joint business that has not been done since 2000, so let's say, and I don't think you're making a contribution to repairing it, as in the previous period, no contribution has been made to correct that solution. I return to this question of the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia (any government of the Republic of Serbia) and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the question of whether the reasoning of an act can be in a different form than that act. Could the explanation have a different form than a discrepancy? If the act of resignation is dissipated, so I resign, it is the text of the dispositive act, acting as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, there can be no reason to be outside of that paper. It just has to be in the same shape. There's no explanation to be given orally. I do not dispute the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which say there is no debate about it, but I do dispute your intrinsicity to predict that there is a possibility of an oral explanation of a written resignation. So the resignation is written, the explanation is written. There is no different form of reasoning than the form of dispersion. Therefore, unless you accept our amendment, which we sincerely suggest, you accept the amendment of fellow Members of Mircic. If you do not accept the amendment of your colleague Mircic, or our amendment, we will vote for one and the other amendment, but you have most of it and you can vote all of it. I don't know if the government has or doesn't have a majority, but I'm starting to assume that this is the situation now. So, I think the whole law has a serious lack of material, content and formal nature. These shortcomings of formal nature are seen in disagreement with the provisions of the Constitution and contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, which, as it is, still respects and guarantees the right of local self-government. I would really like you to answer this question about the constitutionality of these provisions regarding local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15466	The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15467	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable MP, Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia, I have had many times the opportunity to see for myself your unmodest legal knowledge, so there is no legal knowledge and I have no reason to believe at all that you do not know, as a lawyer, very well all of these acts – the European Charter of Local Self-Government and probably know what is constitutional and unconstitutional. But perhaps, if nothing else, because of these late hours, you forgot one provision of the Law on Local Self-Government, which, as far as I can see, you voted in 2002 as a MP, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can initiate the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the unit's general act of local self-government, and until the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend the implementation of the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15468	Thank you. Replica, MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15469	Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for congratulating the National Assembly and me as the People's MP for your response. In my discussion, I didn't want to be completely guilty of this government. I've mentioned several times that we haven't done things together since 2000. When it comes to the lack of the Law on Local Self-Government, I could say that I agree with you, not only on this matter, but on many other issues contained in this law. But, Mr. Minister, I deeply believe that you will agree with me, today's mistakes of the current government cannot be justified by the mistakes of some previous government. Today we're talking about you, your bill of law, and in that context, it was my discussion, with no intention of injure your dignity in any way, and I hope you understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15470	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, believe me, I was convinced, when you came out for the pay phone, that with all the argument that you would accept my colleague Mircic's amendment. If that's another step until we get back, here's what I'm going to do, so you can say that's okay, his explanation and all this argument. I must remind the MPs that there are 13 amendments left to the Bill on Government and 43 amendments to the Bill on State Administration and that there is absolutely no need for anyone to give in to the concentration, to follow this well, because the day will come for the vote, the other day, and we will see when. It is necessary to think about how we will decide, if you do not now accept the amendment of counterpart Mircic, how to define the resignation of the Prime Minister, or the Government – whether in the way you suggested it or how it is in the amendment, indeed in line with the Constitution and in the most democratic spirit, proposed by fellow Mircic. As with many members of the SRS, in several terms, MPs in the National Assembly and never happened before, and two cases where the government's resignation in parliament did not occur, but went to the early parliamentary elections: in 1993, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic practically forced the government of Nikola Sainovic to resign and to call elections before the time and 2003, you know very well when several days after the debate on the government of Zoran Zivkovic, the government practically saw that there was absolutely no foothold and decided to go to early elections. We've had such two cases in our parliamentary practice. But we don't count that in the future, because of the exchange of power, because it's so normal in a democratic society, it's going to come into a situation that really the Prime Minister, for reasons that make it impossible for him to implement the programme agreed by the assembly majority, will resign. We argued about what it looks like when the Prime Minister sends his resignation to the National Assembly. We now come to a concrete situation when he explains his resignation to the MPs. You are proposing to us to adopt a member by whom the Prime Minister, in this case, if Kostunica, because of the failure of the coalition, decides to resign himself, to come here and read in his manner, otherwise he always writes speeches and tells us – that is, I can no longer cooperate with this minister, nor with what I am doing, and everything I have promised I am not able to do; in the manner of an Indian chief says ′′haug′′ there is no more, I also said what I care what you say. Well, it's not like that. So that's really how it is, Mr. Minister. It doesn't look like a chief, but that reminds us of that. So he comes to the National Assembly, reads his explanation, and he can find various reasons and excuses for not being able to do so, that is, to continue to act as Prime Minister. When he was president of the SRJ and was on the DOS-Vojislav Kostunica list, he brought the whole thing to power and after that, when, immediately after the constitution of the new government and after the republical elections, he came into conflict with the factors of the Dossov politburo, he kept finding various explanations – he obstructed me, obstructed me, he obstructed me, did not agree on this or that question, and complained about those with whom he came to power and who chose him to be the bearer of these lists and to bring them into the Assembly. We can come to a situation where he, in his well-known manner, brings before the MPs of the National Assembly and complains about Labus, Dinkic, Veli Ilic, Dimitrijevic, but also about you, Mr. Lončar, it is not excluded because he can find you a variety of objections. He can't exactly mention Mr. Balinovec, but the minister will anyway. That's the end, he said, and then the Assembly finds that he resigned and has no discussion whatsoever. Where is the meaning of democracy and the relationship of MPs with the Prime Minister? In a single position, Article 93 defines the resignation of the Prime Minister, or Government. Where did you find a foothold for this reason? Whoever wrote this, and I assume it's your deputy, says it's one of the ways to stop and this...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15472	Please speak for five minutes and 43 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15473	Here I am, but that doesn't count at the time I quote an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15474	But you're quoting it at the end of five minutes. Be kind, finish, or the dictionary you said -- uh, uh, uh,
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15475	Why do you go in and sit behind your back tonight, and act like you're neither your age nor the position you're in? It is truly inappropriate for you to enter the middle of a debate on such a serious matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15476	Be kind, it's not in the middle of a conversation, but at the end of five minutes after the amendment, which is what you are entitled to by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15477	Here, I am ending, Mr Markovic, but once this situation happened to you -- in front of the entire Serbian public, you promised to resign, change your mind overnight, and now you interrupt me when I tell you about what morale is when someone says they resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15478	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, and then there's Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15479	Article 20. The proposal for a government law is really not good, nor is it in line with the spirit of the Serbian language. (President: I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta, I'm going to extend your speaking time, because of the enthusiasm of the MPs you couldn't speak. Here you go. ) Article 20. The proposal for a government law is one really bad solution. A member like this is really not good, nor is it in accordance with Serbian, nor is it in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We think it is necessary for a representative of the government, here present, or the assembly majority to accept this amendment, which Mr. Mircic has submitted to this member of the bill. So in the position of Article 20, you say the Prime Minister can resign, which he sends to the president of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic. Several colleagues who spoke about this article have turned their attention to this rhubarb language formulation – that the resignation is being sent. Regardless of the fact, I need to draw attention again that this can't stand. All you had to do was write that the resignation was sent by a dove or another way. It is also unacceptable, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, that the resignation of the Prime Minister is submitted to the President of the Republic. These are two separate functions, they have nothing to do with each other in this sense and we don't see what it means to connect this way with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. What the amendment of counterpart Mircic is about is the position of the 3rd member, who says: "The Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. "We in the Serbian Radical Party think that this is not a good solution at all, that resignation should be written or oral, that it should only be submitted to the president of the National Assembly, that it is found and almost, the end, there is no government. But if you have already insisted that the Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly, we did not want to that end to the point of cepiding and suggesting that this position be deleted, but we have therefore suggested that, with this attitude, words be added that the debate would then be opened, and after the debate, it concludes that the term of office of the Government had ceased. Why do we think this is necessary? The government may have its reasons, since the government is proposing this law to us, but I don't see what the government can explain this proposal, where it is a foothold for the Prime Minister to have any advantage over the National Assembly. You've obviously confused the pots here, and not only in this article and in this attitude, but in this whole bill of government, you force the government against the National Assembly. That is not possible, and for that reason, the position of this third member cannot remain as it is. If the Prime Minister is allowed to explain why he is resigning, then the MPs have the right to engage in the debate, to ask him a few questions, if he already wants to say why he is resigning. Maybe then the MPs will find out some more things he doesn't want to say. If he already explains his resignation, then it must be with the participation of the MPs in the debate on the resignation. These arguments we have received from the government, which is why these amendments are being rejected, and this Mr Mircic and the previous one are not really convincing, and probably that is why fellow MPs are individually trying to explain this amendment, because it is incomprehensible that the Government in the explanation says: "The possibility of the Prime Minister to explain his resignation in the National Assembly is an instrument that explains the political opportunities in the state and the means by which both the National Assembly and the public are familiar with the political opportunities in the country. "Well, let the President of the Government resign, he doesn't have to explain it, let him organise a press conference, let him answer all the questions of the press, unless he wants a debate in front of parliament. So what are these political opportunities that should explain to us, possibly, the Prime Minister? Let's say, if the Prime Minister of Kostunica now resigns because, for example, he undisputedly finds that the Deputy Prime Minister was involved in an affair, what does this have to do with any special occasions in Serbia? Unfortunately, Serbia is on many special occasions, and it would be good for both the president and the government to resign. We don't need an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15480	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15481	Ladies and gentlemen, the DS parliamentary group will vote in the day of voting, because the vote after the amendments we have proposed is supported by the amendment of MP Milorad Mircic, because this solution is also better than the proposed one, regardless of what it seems to you that if we have proposed to delete why we would vote for the amendment to leave the possibility of resignation, but with the text that the debate is opened after the Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly, and after the debate finds that the term of office has ceased. This amendment deserves our support because it insists on respecting the National Assembly. So Article 20, paragraph 3, says, "The Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly." You know, if, and these evening classes probably deserve it, with a little cynicism to comment, we'd have the right to say, who is this man who comes to the assembly, did he resign? In an explanation, the government says, I quote: "The resignation of the Prime Minister is a unilateral act and the resignation of the Government ends the mandate, so there is no reason for a parliamentary debate on the government that has suspended its mandate. "Then who is this man who is coming to address the Assembly: the Prime Minister in resignation, the Prime Minister who resigned? Why does he address the congregation? The resignation of the Prime Minister and the resignation of the government is always a serious event in all societies and in all countries, as well as in Serbia. There are, in principle, typical grounds for resignation. The most common is that the government, such as because of its failure to meet the programme, has lost support for the parliamentary majority in the assembly due to political opportunities in the country. To whom then the Prime Minister addresses, who he addresses with a reason for political opportunities, when the government, whose president has resigned, was unable to correct political opportunities, the parliamentary majority knows. It's a disrespect for the MPs who chose that government. If the resignation was filed and a unilateral act, then you cannot give the Prime Minister a chance to speak to the MPs because he has lost authority; if he did, he would not resign because he would have the support of his MPs. If he wants to explain political opportunities, he has the opportunity to work at a cabinet session, which is being reported to the public about resigning, in the media and wherever he wants, but cannot take advantage of the institution of the National Assembly. What is an additional problem, which may not seem like an argument to you for this law, but is an inevitable consequence – why only in this law to be able to explain your resignation one person elected by this assembly. This assembly elects the President of the Supreme Court. If you adopt this, you will have to put in all the laws that the President of the Supreme Court can explain his resignation in the Assembly. We choose her. At this point, the woman is the President of the Supreme Court. President of the Constitutional Court, governor of the National Bank... If you believe that the Prime Minister is the person who deserves to address when he has resigned (or submitted), does this mean that in all the laws for all the officials we elect, through the courts and the National Bank, we will have provisions in those laws concerning their functions so that they can address the National Assembly and explain their resignations? If you won't have it, why was only the Prime Minister elected to address the National Assembly, where he lost authority in front of MPs, who simply don't support the government anymore, or the way it doesn't realize, possibly, the government programme? The proposal tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic has several amendments to this, because it allows MPs (here, MPs earn – they are fully fixed, and they are right), because it puts the National Assembly in a completely different position than to be a listener to the Prime Minister who resigned because he has no authority to lead the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15482	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15483	Ladies and gentlemen, although I don't have my amendment, I've read all my amendment colleagues and I don't see anything illogical in any amendment. The only illogical thing I see is that the government does not want to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Since this has taken a little and comical character, and since it's behind my back, I'm sorry, that's what happened, my colleague Professor Angelkovic, he'll let me make a comparison. This reminds me of Hemingway's novel "The Old Man and the Sea" – the government wants to catch fish in a blur, but it's attached to a huge fish called the SRS, and it can't beat it. Now comes the so-called, as we fishermen, Mrs. Komic, say, tiring and this fatigue will last for who knows when and I don't know if it'll end in two or three days. The government is gathering strength and its strength is looking at 126 cards and hopes to master the fish. Meanwhile, these tiny shark-shaped parties are pulling a little piece by piece, so the government will eventually extract only a skeleton. Therefore, I advise you, cut the rope, break this painful situation, withdraw the law or accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15484	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15485	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 22 has the title – Distrust of the Minister and discharge of the Minister. In its original text in paragraph 1, it states that the motion for a vote of no confidence shall be submitted to the National Assembly by at least 20 MPs, which is fine. Second position: ′′The proposal for a resolution of the minister is submitted to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister, which is procedurally fine. Article 3: ′′ From the submission of a proposal from the Prime Minister to the National Assembly, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the Government whom the Prime Minister has power. ′′ Hardly anyone can give a positive argument for this position, for at least three reasons. Article 22, paragraph 3, is the opposite of the Constitution. The Prime Minister's authority is given by the Assembly. By law on ministries, we each choose the government to determine the number of ministries and the jurisdiction of the ministries. From the Ministry Act, which implies that we will pass a law on government, one or whatever, with amended amendments, we know exactly what the powers of the minister are and cannot be told by the Prime Minister that he cannot exercise his powers. What is further a violation of the Constitution in this article is that the Prime Minister elects a member of the government to whom he transfers the powers of the minister he intends to apply for discharge. When the Prime Minister submits a request for a resolution of the minister, it is expected that the majority of parliament, which supports the government, will agree to this proposal, so it is on the theoretical level to discuss what we will do if we meet. And let it exist only on the theoretical level, only then can this not stand, because that means that the Prime Minister has completely seized the powers of the minister he has under the law. The promoter offered a very problematic provision, I have no doubt, again in good interest to clearly define the position of the minister, but this provision essentially only produces damage, because the case I mentioned is not being discussed – when the minister votes to trust. This is the second amendment that we did not expect the ruling majority to accept, because it is a new solution, but we simply consider our obligation to, worrying about what the Law on Government, the Law on State Administration, the Law on State Servants and the Law on the National Assembly will look like, simply contribute to our idea. So, our proposal is to change the position I have read, where the Prime Minister voluntarily withdraws the powers of the minister, and to read: "From the day of submission of the motion for resolution until the day of the National Assembly, the minister carries out his duties, except in cases where the reason for the settlement is to be found in the conduct of criminal or criminal acts or in the law established conflict of interest. "In that case, there may be discussions in this case, because it has already been defined by other laws. So, if he was found committing a crime or offence on him would be subject to criminal and criminal law, his immunity would be taken away, etc. Only in such cases can he be prevented from having powers, in any other case. What's in art. The 22nd position is to repeat in the draft law the obligation of the National Assembly, and the 4th position reads: "From submitting the proposal to voting on non-trust, or resolution cannot go less than three days or more than 15 days. "It is not possible, either for the government or for the minister, to prescribe a law on government within what time the Assembly will hold a vote on a proposal for the minister's resolution. Believing that this amendment is not disputed and deeply believing that there is no argument that has a foothold in the Constitution or in any law that the Prime Minister will voluntarily take away the powers of the minister, I hope that in the day of the vote you will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15486	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have come back to that famous Article 22, paragraph 3. In the previous amendment debate, we have highlighted unacceptable solutions, and I think this is the highlight of the unseriousness of the proposal. From submitting a proposal from the Prime Minister to discharge ministers to a decision by the National Assembly, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction. By what law does the Prime Minister take away the rights that the National Assembly alone has here? She chooses the government, she chooses ministers, and there is no legal basis that can be drawn and that the right of the Prime Minister to restrict the right of one of the ministers to exercise his jurisdiction. What we pointed out in yesterday's and today's debate is once again shown in the most brutal way possible, and that is the government's desire to take away the right of the Assembly, and that is something that is unacceptable for DS. He can't, but well, the ruling coalition's representatives are insolent or rather funny to comment on... But let's start from the assumption, for example, that the Prime Minister wants to resolve Mladjan Dinkic. Since it is said here in paragraph 4, from the submission of the proposal to the vote it cannot go less than three or more days, as the president of the Assembly schedules the sessions, so the session has twenty and a change of points, so we go to March and we end up in November, then we have a situation until that time period, until the Assembly declares it, Mladjan Dinkic sits in the corner or, as my colleagues say, kneels on corn. This may seem silly, but it is a solution that the government has proposed to this member of the law, not to mention that the minister cannot exercise his powers, but is delegated to someone else. Who can give this right to the Prime Minister, except for the National Assembly, to choose a new minister? The fact is, therefore, that this member of the bill is the highlight of unseriousness. Once again, I say, and in the talks that I had with the representatives of the ruling group, we got approval for one such amendment, but once again I urge them to try to talk to the minister, who is wisely silent and has no intention of giving any answer to such a solution, to tell us what the reason, what led him to do this, and to propose one such solution, which is really nowhere in the world. But it could happen, I said, hypothetically, that we have a situation where the Young One sits in a corner or kneels. What kind of government we have, I wouldn't be surprised. Do not disintegrate the institutions and take care of them; it is good, however, excellent, devoid of the representatives of the ruling group, they are obviously affected by the findings we have spoken. I once again appeal to the speaker's representative, the minister, to understand the demands of the Democratic Party. They're extremely justified. This is the only possible solution. In this case that you've listed here, anything is possible. It's possible from this government, and we've seen a lot of things. I wouldn't be surprised if there was a collective kneeling there. Okay, we've had our chance to see things, and I say one more time, maybe that's what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15488	I thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. If you have a promise from the ruling coalition, then the amendment will be accepted. There are no disputes, otherwise the minister can wait in Bodrum, he doesn't have to kneel. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. The MP of the people has perfected himself, he has the right. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15489	In addition to what is covered by this amendment, Article 22 has several more problematic views. First of all, this doesn't belong to the matter of the government law either, but when you think it should be in the government law, you have to bear the consequences of these amendments. What do you have to say? The 3rd position in the government's version reads: ′′From the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal for the resolution of the Minister to the National Assembly's decision, the Minister cannot exercise his powers, but they are taken by a member of the Government who is the Prime Minister. ′′ In all the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the Government when it comes to what the minister is talking about, it is about the duties of the minister, and in many places it draws conclusions about something called jurisdiction. What you have stated – powers, it is one free interpretation that the law should not contain. The second question that is nicely motivated by the amendment is – what is the difference if the motion for a vote of no confidence is submitted by 20 MPs, and if this proposal is adopted by automatedism a decision is taken to resolve the minister, and if the Prime Minister has submitted the motion for resolution? The proposal of 20 MPs to vote for mistrust is an initial act to begin the debate here. The Prime Minister's proposal to resolve one minister is also an initial act. But these two initial acts are not on the same level. When 20 MPs submit a motion for a vote of no confidence, there is no suspension. If the Prime Minister has submitted a motion for resolution, there is a suspension fact. The problem is that whoever chooses and solves it. One who chooses and resolves may, under certain conditions, which are laid down and suspend someone, but if a minister is suspended, it must be in the Constitution. Since this is not in our Constitution, then the question is whether or not the Minister's suspension is possible. I fully agree that it is strange, unwarranted that the minister is still in office, and the Prime Minister has tabled a proposal to resolve it and that this is a strange situation. It is also a strange situation if 20 MPs propose not to trust the minister, so he continues to work. At the very least, the fatal consequence for the minister, and one and another proposal, is the resolution, which rests on us again. What happens if the Prime Minister suspends the minister because he submitted a motion for resolution, and his proposal does not pass in the Assembly? Then what's it gonna be? I think, realistically speaking, in these status matters and on the position of the minister in the government, we have another problem. What happens if the minister resigns, and that resignation is not discussed here, or if the minister asks to be resolved, resigns and does not want to remain and performs his duty, but wants to leave the government? It's more like a reflection of the actual state than the normative state. Now, for what is possible, and it is likely that it can happen, this law has no answer, because that answer has not even been found on the basis of the constitutional authority prescribed. It is therefore impossible to talk about any suspension and in the variant as proposed by the Government and in the variant as proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15490	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15491	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 12 amendments to the government law and 43 to the state administration law, and you can't understand that the arguments and what we're talking about are in order to improve the government's law and shorten the torment of Minister Loncar, something that will allow every future government and its president to "calculate" in a more democratic and better way with a minister who doesn't do his job the way the Prime Minister expects him to. In Article 22, which speaks of mistrust and resolution, you are well aware that at least 20 MPs can apply for a vote of mistrust. Then you're saying that only in case the motion to dismiss the Ministers is submitted to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister from submitting a proposal from the Prime Minister to the National Assembly to the decision of the Ministers' National Assembly, they're being taken by a member of the Government who has been appointed by the Prime Minister. Imagine now, Mr. Loncar, that for some reason the Prime Minister decides to relieve you of the functions of Minister and Trust, but it is totally unconstitutional and inappropriate, that your affairs, from your portfolio, are being done by Velimir Ilic; or, Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Or, imagine if Kostunica decides to vote non-trust and call off Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, while the health minister's jobs are being done by Velimir Ilic, and now Velija is a health minister. Imagine a situation like that. Or imagine the situation, Mr. Minister, that you should take over the Ministry of Finance. Then tomorrow you have to continue what Dinkic started, and threaten the bankers, and the educators, and those who need to reduce the number of their employees, then the pensioners about the reform, and say, so the IMF ordered me to do so. Of course you wouldn't do everything he does, would you? But Kostunica tells you, and you have to, and it's just amazing to put yourself in that position. Perhaps Mr. Balinovac would have been either an honor or an easier one to write here, i.e. you, that these affairs until the vote of possible mistrust are carried out by the deputy minister; he could in that sense come to terms and say – here, I am now a Caliph instead of a Caliph. But like this, your affairs are entrusted to Velimir Ilic and you are in a position to cause chaos as far as the state administration is concerned, that is, local self-government. And it's impossible for you to intimately agree with this proposal by a member's text which speaks of a vote of mistrust to the minister. If such a law were to be passed by this still current prime minister, and the future until this law changed, and it would have to be changed by our coming to power, because it is impossible, simply, for us and for what we are fighting for, and this prime minister, and that will certainly be Mr Tomislav Nikolic, would not have given himself the right to abuse so harshly and his expressed democratic will and performance and to say – well, now, until the Assembly has voted out trust with one of the ministers, but of course there will be no reason or need to do so, at least when they have been radical, I will entrust someone else to do these jobs. Where did you get an idea like this, and where did this come from? Where is it? You'll probably explain it to us, or you won't, but it's up to the MPs not to play with what's key and, above all, key resolutions in one country. With such a transfer from one minister to another, because the Prime Minister has decided, for his well-known reasons, that one of his associates, or ministers, will not get anywhere. Anyway, the government is both unserious and the Assembly is in its work, and here's how this day is moving away, we're getting closer to a new one, and this kind of bill and these kind of members are bringing in extra unseriousness, which is totally unnecessary. I can see that you approve, Mr. Balinovac, of noding your head, but you see, when you were already involved in writing this law, and you want to come to terms with it, to put the deputy minister in the affairs of the minister, because I see it's a great wish for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15492	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15493	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first point to the position of the fourth member, who again deals with the matter that is regulated by Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So that's something we point to throughout this law. We cannot legally edit the way the National Assembly will work. In Article 82. The Constitution is stated: ′′The National Assembly shall regulate its work and organisation and how the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. ′′ Let us respect the National Assembly, and let the National Assembly do so with its own rules of procedure. Let us not regulate the work of MPs by the laws proposed by the Government. I'm asking you as Minister to help us with that. The other thing is something I also think is not in accordance with the Constitution. Namely, as Mrs Gordana Comic has already pointed out, the Prime Minister cannot deny the power of the minister given to him by the National Assembly. That can't and doesn't make any sense. How inconsistencies are inconsistencies, I shall appeal to Article 17. The government and a member of the government whose National Assembly votes mistrust has greater authority in its work than a member of the government who loses the trust of the Prime Minister. This isn't a cabinet. This is the government. A member of the Government shall be responsible to the Assembly and the Assembly shall elect members of the Government. I repeat, I would like, if you would be kind enough to answer us, Article 17 speaks of government powers and government members after the government's term of office has ceased. Please, I repeat, the minister who loses the trust of the National Assembly has greater rights, greater powers than the minister who loses the trust of the Prime Minister. So the law itself is inconsistencies. Members of the 17th and 22nd are in complete dissension. I have the impression that the law was made in the current order of things. That's very bad. Every parliamentary majority, every political majority in Serbia sometimes acts as if it will be forever. Thank God, we're witnessing that the authorities are changing, and they need to change to teach everyone that power isn't God of day. I ask you to accept this amendment, to throw these solutions out of the law, because those solutions are certainly not for the benefit of our society. We cannot allow - this primarily applies to the National Assembly, I do not have too much right to blame the minister, but I resent the parliamentary majority - to humiliate ourselves to this extent and to adopt the solutions that this National Assembly really humiliates to such a degree that there is no longer any attribute of statehood or authority that belongs to it by the Constitution and logic of things. We cannot allow us to adopt solutions that will make the Prime Minister's will stronger, stronger, than the will of the National Assembly that the Prime Minister should choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15494	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15495	In that previous government, Minister Gašo Knezevic often spoke, when he spoke of the Law on Higher Education that it was a law that had not yet been passed, it did not come into force, but it is applying it. It was something very interesting, and we often mentioned it, but it seems to me that this government is doing the same thing with the Constitution, because most of the solutions set out in this Bill on Government are not in line with the existing Constitution, and then a logical conclusion is that the Government has a vision of the Constitution somewhere, that they are convinced that this will be, that what was proposed one day will be a constitutional solution. Since we know that this is not the case and it is not possible, we suggest that the Prime Minister – Minister Loncar think again about this amendment and the whole of this law, because the more the debate moves away, the more obvious it is that the best solution would be, both for the Serbian government and for this Parliament, to withdraw nicely this bill, yes, Minister, do a good bill of law and then, in a brief discussion, enter into a normal law that would be applicable, and not what you are proposing. In Article 22, you say: ′′ Proposal for a vote of mistrust shall be submitted to the National Assembly by at least 20 MPs. ′′ What about these initiatives already standing in the Serbian Parliament, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, with 81 signatures? What about these initiatives, when will Minister Vuksanovic and Minister Dinkic be discussed? You'll say it's already scheduled for a session, but what are you planning on doing with that session, we'll only see about the time it's scheduled. Furthermore, you say in the third position that from the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal to discharge the minister to the National Assembly's decision, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction. This can't happen. However, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica did this without law. When Dragan Marsican resigned to the jobs of the economy and privatisation minister, the government and prime minister were appointed as co-ordinator of the ministry, which was called Predrag Bubal. So, what happened in that period when we didn't have a minister for economy and privatisation? The economy, which didn't normally work and didn't work, then even less worked. Privatisations, which were mainly committed in a criminal manner by then, were continued in the same way, because the Martian at the time when he was the minister promised to file a request and that 83 privatisations would take place, but the job was nothing, because Marsican was no longer a minister. The bug didn't promise that, he was just a coordinator. When he was appointed minister, that story was forgotten. It is precisely because of such situations and the reasons, which are essentially distracting citizens of Serbia, that I would say to the gods and malfeasances, and you are proposing these nebulous, unacceptable and unconstitutional solutions. The government cannot be without a minister, regardless of whether he resigned, no matter how he resigns, whether the assembly or on a proposal from the Prime Minister, he must perform his post until the competent authority elects another person to do the same. A short time ago, Jovanovic compared, Minister Loncaru said – imagine, Mr Lončar, if you had to instead of Mladjan Dinkic to be finance minister; so she said – you would have to fire workers, you would have to introduce VAT, sell, turn the National Savings Bank into your bank, so if you were to change Mladjan Dinkic by order of Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Lončar, you would have to steal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15496	The replica was reported by Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15497	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am, of course, pleased that here amongst us there are acquaintances of my character and of my actions, it's partly my merit, which means that I did something, so people remember, but I don't answer for it, or provoked by that, I answer for one question. I wonder why the Law on a litigation procedure or the Law on executive procedure was passed during the day. Here all the important laws seem to be passed at night. The press, when they passed the law on education, said it was Halloween, and now we can say that there are Halloween nights, because it seems that all those laws that have some serious content, which have repercussions, must be passed on to the principle of fatigue. What are the motives of such a haste, which justifies the fact that at 23.00 hours of the night some people sit here, when it's not even a biological hour of time for it, and they're discussing topics that are very serious, such as the subject of the relationship between the minister and the Prime Minister or the kneeling on corn and sitting in a corner and any other topic concerning these laws. So I just don't see any real reason to approach the problem this way, not because of the fact that someone's tired of us until five o'clock in the morning to amend the Education Law. We are now present at the violation of that law by this same government and the taking of obligations, or jurisdiction by the minister against the law, because of course, the law was such that it was not enforceable. What the opposition at the time convinced you about, it didn't matter to anyone. Now we have the same impossible solution here. We have solutions that look like a dislocated or broken shoulder or arm. Let's get to our senses, and at the right time we're doing some things that we think are real. We can make mistakes, I agree that the bill promoter can make a mistake and I can understand that, but I can't understand the way the law is passed. I can't understand the behavior that exceeds every measure of good taste and that is repeated here almost always at a time when some important laws are ahead of us. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15498	Thank you, Mr. Knezevic, but before you came forward, Mr. Nikolic, so I apologize to Mr. Nikolic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a permanent employee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will file an inspection of the work against the employer because he keeps us at work for 13 hours, not giving us a break. Just play along, but you brought that law here in the Assembly. But while I'm still brain-sufficient, let me comment on Article 22. The bill, because I'd like to point out one inconsistencies that go through if you just compare Articles 12 and 22. Obviously, the proponent could not identify whether the government of equal coalition partners ministers would be represented by the office government, which it would represent, which would be commanded in a certain way by the Prime Minister. Imagine a law that should be consistent from the first to the last member, in which Article 12 of the Minister may require the Government to decide whether the President has exceeded his powers when he has given him a task, and in Article 22, the President has the authority to submit a motion for the resolution of the Minister and at the same time to remove him from his post, to remove him from the Government and to appoint a minister to replace him. It is the same president against whom the minister can demand a vote in the government, whether he has exceeded the authority given him the order, and only ten members after that, the Prime Minister can remove him by request of resolution, as if he did not exist at all and as if he had not been elected by the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask the legislator to decide: if he wants the office system, then we will choose the Prime Minister here, and he will only present his cabinet, and if he wants the system in which the Assembly chooses each minister individually, then the Prime Minister is one of the ministers, then the Prime Minister cannot file a request for the resolution of the minister and thus practically resolve it, because it is a government that enjoys the confidence of the majority. The request for resolution will surely be resolved positively. Then why is the Prime Minister in such a hurry to get him out of place for those armed days, as long as you predicted that a deadline must be in which a motion for a resolution must be voted? Either the minister is the one who can demand a vote in the government itself against a decision by the Prime Minister or the minister whose mandate is practically the Prime Minister's. I think you've confused the ministers themselves with this bill, especially the ministers of the parties that are in the coalition with who wrote this bill. You've probably given in to them in some way Article 12, and now he can't order the Prime Minister to do something, because he can ask the government to vote on it, and yet you wanted to have a dominant influence in the government through the Prime Minister, so you've provided for a provision on the discharge of the minister, which was carried out practically by a request for resolution. Because it is for the National Assembly whether it is a president or a minister, each vote is voted on, so respect the ministers. In order for the people to respect him, it cannot be the man the Prime Minister will -- not the Chancellor, but the Prime Minister -- to resolve one by his own decision. He can't. The minister must perform the function chosen by the National Assembly until the moment the National Assembly says – Mr Minister, you will no longer perform that function. There is no intermediary between the minister and the assembly who chose him. Whoever suggested that the minister be elected can only suggest that the minister be resolved. He can't get rid of it, and he can't get it off duty until he's relieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15500	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is Mr. Milajic. Mr. Nikolic, I want to remind you of an initiative: the Prime Minister's initiative to get rid of the culture minister has not passed in parliament. It was about Minister Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15501	In Article 22. The bill envisions a vote of mistrust by the minister and a resolution by the government ministers. The motion for a vote of no confidence shall be submitted to the National Assembly by at least 20 MPs. There's nothing to argue about. It is an initiative that is also envisaged by the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and does not produce any legal facts itself. In the position of the 2nd member, the motion for the resolution of the Ministers shall be submitted to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister, by the fact that this initiative for the resolution of the Minister by the Prime Minister produces certain legal facts, which consist of the submission of a proposal from the Prime Minister to the Council of Ministers' decision cannot exercise its powers. The interesting thing is that the consequence of the motion to resolve was either the motion to vote non-confidentially the same – it ends the term of office in one way or another. But the interesting thing about this bill is the consequences. If the motion to vote for mistrust is launched by 20 MPs, there is no confiscation of power. He continues to perform his duties normally until the Assembly adopts the proposal or adopts it. In a situation where the prime minister's resolution is sought by the Prime Minister, an opportunity is introduced to take away his powers and that he cannot perform his post. It is completely unclear why in one situation he continues to do his job and exercise his powers, and in another situation he is deprived of that right. If it were the government's office system, it would be understandable -- the Prime Minister's election assembly, the Chancellor's office, then sets up a cabinet itself, and that authority by the Prime Minister would be fully understood and justified. However, given that the Assembly elects both the Prime Minister and all members of the government, it is unclear why the Prime Minister would have the kind of authority to rule over the minister before the Assembly has declared whether or not it should be resolved by the minister. Finally, in Section 4 – from submitting the proposal to voting on non-trust, that is, the resolution cannot go less than three or more days – the promoter continues to keep trying to regulate matter within the scope of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that the government is trying to regulate on a small door something that could not in principle regulate. This is how the congregation will act in situations where a matter of trust is raised, whether by the entire government or by a member of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15502	I thank you, Mr. Milajic. The word has Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15503	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, since I've known you for a long time and as someone who studied at the New Sad Law School and as a man who, at least as far as the New Sad opinion applies, understands his work extremely well, I'm pretty sure you didn't do this law. I'm absolutely sure you understand all the faults this law has. I'm also sure you know that Article 20, Article 3, is the opposite of the Constitution. Since I know your legal qualities, I'm sure you can't stand behind a law that's contrary to the Constitution, and this is not the only provision in this law that is contrary to the Constitution and which, in fact, the government puts outside the Assembly. Thus, the parliamentary system of the Republic of Serbia and the jurisdiction and authority that parliament has, and the government, is being put in place by the current legal system of the Republic of Serbia, is objectively lacking. I'm sure you, as well as most of your fellow lawyers in this House, are aware of that fact. What I'm not sure and what I can't believe is that the ruling majority will vote for this law and will not support amendments, which are not political, but particularly legal, crafty and professionally trying to bring this law into line with the existing constitution. Even assuming that a new constitution was believed to be a new constitution, and possibly these provisions would not be in line with the constitution, although I doubt that some new constitution could also have provisions with which such legal provisions would be in agreement, it is impossible to take a step forward and prejudge any future solutions, given that we as parliamentarians are here in the Serbian Assembly, but also Serbian citizens are aware that the Constitutional Commission has long not met and that we have not strayed beyond 22 members, if I remember well, so the uncertainty about the adoption of the constitution, as a pre-election promise, is something that each of us must face. Therefore, it is undeniable that the position of Article 22 of the Constitution is contrary and it is undeniable that many of the ambiguities in this law exist. He says, "The proposal for the discharge of the minister is submitted to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister. "How many ministers -- one, two, three, all ministers of one political party or all ministers? And, then, it conveys powers to itself, and at the same time some Prime Minister is acting as Prime Minister and all ministers, and it is a 15-day maximum time limit that he is possibly assumed by this legal solution, quite enough to bring a lot of things, a lot of things to do, embarrass parliament, embarrass the government, embarrass very young democracy in the Republic of Serbia. Much is undefined and much is unsustainable in such a legal proposal and such a legal solution. I really think it is very important to accept the amendments to Gordana Comic and the Democratic Party in this regard. It is very important to understand the possibility of abuse of such a member of this law if it is adopted in this form. Mr. Minister, read it again. I'm sure you understand what I'm talking about. I would also like to know who the author of this law is, because I am expressing serious doubts about its legal qualities and abilities, so I suggest that such experts and legislators are not relied upon in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15504	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 22 is in direct collegiation with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This Article 22 shows the clear nature of the proposal for a government law, which the Serbian government submitted to the National Assembly. Namely, this Article 22. The proposal for a government law puts the Government of the Republic of Serbia first and minimises the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided The bill, which speaks of the Minister's mistrust institute and the minister's resolution, reads: "From the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal to the National Assembly's decision, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has power. "It is directly in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution is the highest legislative act of the Republic of Serbia and while it is valid must be respected. Therefore, Article 93(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The government and each member of its work correspond to the National Assembly," meaning they correspond to the highest legislative body. Paragraph 2 states: "The National Assembly may vote for mistrust to the government or to one of its members. "In point 3, he says: "The motion to vote for mistrust can be submitted to the government or to a member of the government by at least 20 MPs. "When we talk about voting against the government, Article 93. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says this: "A vote of mistrust can only be accessed after three days of the day of the motion for a no-confidence vote. "Not to read any further article 93. The Constitution. In Article 22. The government bill, submitted by the government to the National Assembly, shows exactly what the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said when he said that the bill itself was in collegiate with Article 12. The bill, where a member of the Government may request the Government to decide whether or not the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers, and then Article 22 says that I do not repeat what the bill provides, quite the opposite of Article 12. So, this bill, which the government has submitted to the National Assembly, is not only not in accordance with the Constitution and is therefore not well-conceived, but is not in line with previous members who need to fully and clearly regulate the area when it comes to the law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment tabled for Article 22 is just that, and the minister should think carefully about when and if this bill should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure at all. We have entered this debate and in this debate we have shown and proved that the law is in full collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which means with the highest legislative act. After all, the government has an obligation towards Serbian citizens to pass precise and clear laws, to regulate areas, especially when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The executive authority cannot assume the authority of the legislative authority. That is the essence of all those amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15506	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15507	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and in this article, you can see how this government has been acting in one part, that there is one constant tendency to humiliate the National Assembly. Article 22 regulates how we can get rid of the ministers. So there are two ways: one is for the MPs, at least 20 MPs, and another is for the initiative to be launched by the Prime Minister. However, there are now two ways for the government to function, which are quite the opposite. So, if the MPs do so, at least 20, and 250, regardless of the number of MPs, the minister will continue to do his job as long as no decision on its resolution is made. If the Prime Minister does so, he will immediately be away from the minister's post and appointed by the government's president who will do the job. The question arises as to who is older, the National Assembly or the Prime Minister, and who is responsible for what he is doing? The National Assembly corresponds to citizens who elected it and the Prime Minister and the Government to the MPs, so that this position is controversial, in a certain way, humiliating the National Assembly. The problem arises, what if the Prime Minister submits an initiative to resolve the minister, is handled in accordance with this article, the position of the 3rd member, to enter into the debate and the National Assembly does not decide on the resolution of the minister. According to some logic, if anyone enjoys confidence, the Prime Minister should resign at the moment, because he wanted to resolve a member of his cabinet, the National Assembly did not accept it and therefore no longer trust the Prime Minister, and then he should resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15508	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15509	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 23 has the title – Minister's resignation. In its first position in the proposed text of the law, it reads: "The minister can resign, which he sends to the Prime Minister and then to the president of the National Assembly. "The Minister in the Government has no Constitution described, or the Law on Ministries or Rules of Procedure, a channel of communication with the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly communicates with the Prime Minister when this is a serious matter, such as resignation. So, the minister (with previous remarks that the choice of legislator is to say that the resignation is sent, whatever that means, we disagree, but there is a different tendency to a clear legal language or not) cannot address the president of the Assembly with the resignation. He resigns to the Prime Minister. The third stance tells the minister that he can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. I was saying, when this position was at stake for the Prime Minister, not for no reason, will we then, in all the laws that we choose persons, the governor of the National Bank, the President of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, allow everyone to explain their resignations, and that MPs sit quietly and listen. Is it necessary for such an explanation to have 84 MPs or one MP in the O.R.? Should MPs agree to speak to them? Is the agenda in the Assembly an explanation of the resignation of a single minister? How does the minister explain his resignation in the assembly past the Prime Minister? All these problems produce this arbitrary position, completely unnecessary in a member talking about the resignation of the minister, so the minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. Our proposal in the amendment that we have tabled is that attitude 1 is changed and it says, "The minister can resign in writing or verbally." So, as we suggested, the Prime Minister could resign in writing and verbally, with exactly the same reasons. The value of the oral resignation is related to the responsibility in addressing the public scene, the responsibility in public speech, the control of public speech, and is closely linked to the awareness of what the minister's job is. The minister cannot allow himself to get upset, so that during the session of the Assembly or at the cabinet session, or in the media shows, or at meetings to pronounce a sentence, I am resigning. It is inadmissible and shows a lack of how important the job the minister is dealing with is. I stress, in addition to the amendment that I have already commented on, this amendment that we would like to introduce as a political party, so the Democratic Party would introduce this oral resignation institute into the bill, propose it as MPs or whatever, without the ruling majority expecting to adopt such an amendment, but we think with a reasonable and good intention to discuss it in public. After Article 1, we added a new position, which reads: "The minister delivers his resignation to the Prime Minister". He cannot resign from delivering his resignation to the speaker of the assembly, because the Prime Minister is the person who proposed him and he is communicating with the speaker of the assembly. Item 3, that the minister may explain his resignation in the National Assembly, of course, we suggested that he be deleted. The interpretation of such resignations for either the Prime Minister or the Minister has no procedure and procedure in the Rules of Procedure and cannot be a part of the agenda. In an explanation given by the Government, with a decision not to accept the amendment, there is no similarity to the arguments given when it comes to the Prime Minister, who should explain his resignation, but if you try to imagine the situation of having one or another minister, which is perfectly normal, who resigns, who address the Assembly, you will see for yourself that it is simply not realistic to be applicable. If not applicable, then why write in one of our laws that we want well to arrange for the government and the organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15510	The word has an MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15511	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as regards our amendment to Article 23, I would like to say this: I remain in the position I have spoken of the same text on the interpretation of the written resignation by oral means in front of the MPs. We must make a clear distinction between what is written and what is the oral resignation. If you remain in the position of not having an oral resignation, then there is no oral explanation in front of the congregation. If you accept our proposal that resignation can be given in writing and orally, and I remind you that National Assembly President Dragan Marsicanin resigned orally before the National Assembly, so if you accept that an oral resignation can be given, then it is perfectly fine that what you have provided for Article 23, which is that this resignation can be explained in the National Assembly. Because there's nothing more logical than when a minister, say, In front of the National Assembly, he resigned to reason and normal. That right no one can challenge him, nor do I think anyone would want to challenge him of such a right. Of course, this would also include amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which would allow the National Assembly to discuss the occasion, because the minister may, in his resignation or in the interpretation of his resignation, also list a number of acts that are in a certain way tangling by MPs, MPs, or political parties in the National Assembly. If you remain in the position that resignation can only be written, then the explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was quoted here by my esteemed colleague Palalic, then that argument in accordance with Article 202 is in the same form as the resignation. I really think and I don't think it can be disputed in this assembly, that it can't be left in one form as an act, it can't have a dissipation in one form, and I don't have any idea what a session of the National Assembly would look like, or how it would be scheduled, and what basis it would have, where the agenda would be an explanation of the resignation of the Minister and of that or the Prime Minister, since we had it. Therefore, I suggest that you accept the amendments made by Mrs Gordana Komic and to Article 20 and 23, or that because of this number of objections you withdraw this law and in line with the objections made here by the amended law, it would not only be acceptable for the majority in parliament, because there is no question of whether something is acceptable for the majority, because it is acceptable for most people does not necessarily mean that it is acceptable, for reasons of usefulness, for the state and society. Simply to imitate it with the needs of our state and our society and then together, and with the support of our party, we declare a government law that will be the basis for a better government's work and a more high-quality relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, and legislative and judicial authorities, and I certainly don't think we have a dispute here, certainly deserves our attention and deserves a certain reform by this ruling majority or some other. So, I repeat, oral resignation, oral reasoning, and we from the DS have nothing against it. A letter of resignation, a written explanation, and we have nothing against it. The written resignation, and the oral reasoning, has no logic or justification in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor in any other act or in parallel law, or in the extreme case of what we had as the history of our parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15512	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15513	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and with this member, it is normal to apply analogy. If both the Prime Minister and the Ministers were before the People's MPs and the MPs voted for them, and they made a solemn commitment, a solemn statement or oath, baptize it however you wish, then it is normal for the Prime Minister and ministers to resign individually, although I do not see anyone in this government who will resign until we force him out of the ministerial chair – they must resign before the Assembly. Imagine the situation, for example, the minister of education now has to resign because he took the kids off in that elementary school there, treated them with prism, so the miracle didn't shut down the coal, or let some do it. It's a miracle he didn't let the coal out and treat the children, etc. However, he inherited a European practice, because I remember that the previous minister of education had just come out here and mentioned some vampire sessions, had formed some camps where the children were competing who would sooner get off. It's for the prisoners, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Imagine, they're resigning now. Let's say Mladjan Dinkic resigns, his conscience works. He has no conscience. He's the only one we can get rid of. While I'm at Mladjan Dinkic's, then let me say, his head of Parliament said about this speaker that he's a math teacher, so he knows how to count. Sir, count on Dinkic to go to jail when he leaves the ministerial chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15514	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Miss Lakicevic-Stojačić, to wait a moment, before you came forward a folk letter. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go, ma'am, Leila Ruzdić-Triffunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15515	Of course I agree with all the arguments we have heard in relation to Article 23 and with the amendment submitted by our colleague, Mrs Comic. So I wouldn't take your time, I didn't come out to explain it myself. There's something I couldn't get past, and that's the style the law was written, the language the law was written on. Totally unauthorized. I'm just going to read you two or three words from Article 23, which is why I also think it is necessary to adopt the amendment, which is -- the minister can resign from his resignation to the Prime Minister, and then to the president of the National Assembly. Sends, how? Where is the language of the legislator – sends. Maybe he delivers or maybe we'll make up another expression. What does it mean then? When it's then, is it together, is it after, is it after five days, six, seven. The National Assembly in its session takes note. Please, there are a lot of colleagues here, whether it's a language to write a law, to write the laws of a democratic assembly. To tell you the truth, I just don't deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15516	I thank the People's Parliament. The word has a People's MP, here you go, Stojačić-Lakicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15517	Dear People's MPs, I really thought that every parliamentary mandate had enough parliamentary and democratic capacity so that what is said in the towers could be said for this assembly speaker. I almost didn't talk to any MP who didn't have any objections to this law and who didn't say that a bunch of things said about this pay phone was not true. It's simple, the coalition is a coalition, so the deal is that we stay out of each other's laws, so it doesn't matter if they pass this one, it'll pass tomorrow and one of ours. It's just not good. This law shouldn't go the way it was proposed. Amendments offered must be accepted. I'm waving Albianic, too, if it's the amendment, if it's the coalition deal, I don't know what the reason is. In any case, quite certainly, this member has many gaps. I commented when the word was first mentioned – sent. Legal terminology is an unknown term, legal terminology is also an unknown term of reasoned resignation. The resignation is a personal act and after delivery or publication, either orally or in writing, none of us need an explanation, and that is, if you send in any way provided for by this law, which may be any way by mail, recommended, personal, courier, pigeon writer, however you will, because the legislator does not foresee it. This goes first to the Prime Minister, and then to "the pot", and then the term is not defined within what time period, means then to the National Assembly president, regardless of why the resignation would be submitted to the National Assembly president. So you get into a situation that you simply cannot properly apply the position of the 1st member. The second view finds that the National Assembly, after receiving knowledge of what someone sent in some way at some time, differs, the prime minister and president of the Assembly, finds that they have resigned. And then whoever wrote his resignation to the prime minister and the president of the National Assembly in writing has the opportunity to explain that resignation to you at the National Assembly. So it's a term -- a reasoned resignation. Something completely new, introduced by this law. And if only this member of the law were a problem, that would be sufficient reason not to vote without amendments to this law. Since this is another one in a series of members who do not correspond essentially to the possibility of implementing this law, nor the need for a government law that must be passed, and which this parliament must adopt, it is quite clear that we all have political, moral, but also personal and human responsibility not to adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15518	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please. I'm just gonna check it out without you answering by any chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15519	Yes, I am, Mr. Angelkovic. I am pleased that you are the only joy in the Assembly, of course not counting the MPs of the SRS, because these others are looking down on us. They're having a hard time with this, but here we go on a new day, and we'll see how it's going to run since May 20th. As for the amendment to Article 23 and the resignation of the minister, we again come to the same problem and situation as we had when it comes to the resignation of the Prime Minister. As for the resignation itself and that, according to the proponent in the first position -- the minister can resign, which he again sends to the Prime Minister and then to the president of the National Assembly, I'm surprised you didn't put in the President of the Republic. When you left, you could have written that too. Since everything has nothing to do with each other and what it's supposed to look like, you could've put that on. The National Assembly, in its first next session, without debate, takes the view that the minister has resigned and thus ends his mandate. The minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. And the situation happens to decide, including this Minister Loncar, or some other, to come to the National Assembly and explain his resignation and we can't discuss it, and we can't judge why he was put in a position to resign before the National Assembly. These are the kind of precedents you're making with this unserious bill of government. I have to ask you one question, although I can't expect you to have a collective answer, or each of you to come out individually. If you are already speaking and do not wish to accept these amendments, which are submitted by opposition MPs to the Government Bill, here on the resignation of the Minister, as possible and why you dare to talk, or not at all, half of you here attend here uninterestedly, when you know that more than half of the ministers are now asleep. And the Prime Minister, ministers who sleep carefree, dream of their beautiful dreams, and we need to convince you that this member of the law is wrong and that in such a way cannot be abused by the National Assembly. It is simply amazing that the National Assembly is treated in this way, and the MPs, when it is well known that each minister and president of the government must go through the National Assembly and that at least 126 MPs vote to give the speaker and to entrust him with the work of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15520	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15521	The legislator would have to know what the hierarchy of regulations is. It's probably clear to everyone that primate has a constitution over every law. In this performance, it means that the minister resigns to the National Assembly, and this is how you send it to the Prime Minister. However, I think there's been a technical error in your first attitude here. It is said this - the minister can resign, which he sends to the Prime Minister and then to the president of the National Assembly. I think instead of -- then it should be -- by mailing the president of the National Assembly, that there's a missing letter "s". Because I don't see why you put this in norm. I really don't see what the reason was. What made the government suggest something like this? Please, that provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear. You didn't need to be mutilating this by working it out. There was no reason for that at all. Well then, the minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. We've shown you on some concrete examples what's going on. You had a situation with your Minister of Marsicanin that immediately after the election, the election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic began, and the man said - well, I am resigning, because it is immoral for the minister to take part in the election campaign. The ministry was without a minister, it still worked. When he went through the way he did, the resignation came to an end. The government was in wonder. Instead of being proposed within a short period of time, the election of the new minister waited for months. The minister's function was taken over by a completely different minister. Now, to understand the depth of the problem, you see, the one chosen as minister, based on the decision to elect a minister, is entitled to, or authorized to be, the accountant for that ministry as a state body. And now you have a situation where the minister resigned, and he no longer wants to join the ministry, and then some deputies appear on that yellow card, etc., if there are more people who are authorized to sign. But you still don't have a person who's authorized to bring in acts, to sign acts. Because if the minister resigned, then his authority which he passed on to the assistants expired, I guess there is no longer, no, under the general rules on the legal action of power of attorney. But it's not interesting here for this government and this finding that it's being taken to the knowledge. Please, that the National Assembly is informed that someone resigned and what the Assembly is doing here is a clear declaration, a mere declaration. It's not a constitution, it's just a confession that some condition has occurred. So it's a single declaration act. This declaration act does not have to have this form, legal, but a finding. So, we -- we don't get to know that someone resigned, but we do realize that he resigned. You have taken this initiative to propose a new government law, and you have practically initiated this debate and initiated it to show you what the failures of this bill are all about, and in which it is not in agreement, and indeed there is also where it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15522	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15523	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 24 has the title - the authority of the minister who resigned. The proposed text reads: "The minister who resigned is obliged to do current tasks until his mandate is stopped. "Second position: "In doing so, he cannot make regulations unless their adoption is related to the legal deadline and imposes the needs of the state, defence interests or natural, economic or technical accident, and in the exercise of the founding rights of the Republic of Serbia he can only appoint or give consent to the appointment of acting directors and members of the board of directors and supervisors. "If, of course, the minister has in his ministry the power to appoint directors or board members. We have proposed an amendment to the whole article, since it cannot be intervened here in individual positions in Article 24. Just one reflection of the will to hear the arguments made by the applicants of the amendment whoever it is, and I will illustrate to you how not good it is when the arguments are not heard by the application of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, i.e. I will set an example. The complete absence of hearing to accept an amendment or at least part, so the most important 11 amendments of 46, which we have submitted to the environmental protection system law, which is called the Environmental Protection Act, have led to the fact that what the National Assembly adopted cannot be implemented. So by exempting, or refusing to accept amendments, which you are practically making applicable law, you have created a problem, because this law is mentioned in the recommendations of the Implementation Study, and this is all together for us expensive. It's best to learn from someone else's experience, and we've had opportunities, not on our own, but when that hasn't worked out, I'm just giving you this digression, because it's not about amendments that are conceptually different, it's not about party-colored amendments, it's about text that regulates what needs to be regulated in government law. So, we propose that Article 24 be amended and that it reads: "The Minister to whom he has suspended his term of office performs his duties until the day of his handover to the elected minister". Second position: "The duties of the minister are determined by the position of Article 2 of this law, which refers to the government whose term of office has ceased with the resignation or resolution". The third position, with which we have had a lot of difficulties, is precisely to prove to you that we do not want to disqualify the bill's proposals, but to improve it however possible, so we have left your provision re-formed: "When representing the Republic of Serbia as a legal person, the minister to whom the mandate has ceased may appoint or grant consent to the appointment of only performers of office in public enterprises, institutions, organisations and bodies to which the founder of the Republic is". Why? Because the first position of this member is in conflict with the second position of Article 23. So you have here an example of the first internal conflict in the law, the 1st position of Article 24 you come into direct conflict with the second position of Article 23. There are again examples and deconstitutions of the Constitution, and this is all together a very obvious ambiguity of the minister's duties to which he suspended his mandate under the bill of law. The authority of the minister who resigned, if we went strictly, so if I were to submit an amendment that was party-colored, then my amendment would say that this was deleted. So, I want to tell you that it would be perfectly clear that our attempt is really just to fix as much as possible what is written in an unclear and incorrect language and that in the end cannot stand in any bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15524	Mr. Albianic, a little quieter, you laughed the most there, now I can't measure who else, I don't have a meter here. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Mr. Markovic, I've seen you, but before you Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15525	If we don't respect the argument we heard from Parliament's Comic and don't accept the amendment she made, then I agree with her to delete a member, because he's literally ashamed of how illiterate he is. I'll only draw your attention to a few words. You'll all agree with me absolutely. Item 2, I don't like the first position either, but I'm going to skip it and just draw attention to paragraph 2, when the minister was given the authority, when he resigned, attitude 2 tells us this way -- in doing so he can't lay down regulations, unless their adoption is related to the legal deadline or the needs of the state, the interests of the defence (this is clear to me) or natural, economic or technical accident. My question is, what's a natural disaster? Have any of you ever found a term of natural disasters in one law, have any of you ever said in a simple speech for higher force that it was a natural accident? Maybe it's a flood in Banat, but he didn't write it. What's a business accident? Is it an economic accident when an economy machine cuts off someone's hand? Maybe it's bankruptcy. I don't know, I don't know if you do. No one I asked, and I asked at least 20 MPs, he couldn't explain to me what a technical accident was. I'd sort of manage these two accidents, so I'd figure it out, think about it, and maybe realize it, but the technical accident doesn't make any sense to me at all. If I'd found her somewhere in some law, all that stuff I said before, I'd have to take it back if anyone could prove it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15526	I thank Mrs. Ruzdic-Trifunović. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared, and Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15527	The title above this article reads: "The authority of the minister who resigned". But I must draw attention to the legislator that the vice-presidents of the government and ministers and formally-legal equality, and all these titles concerning the minister had to read, let's say - the powers of a member of the government who resigned, as a member of the government appears as a generic name for vice-presidents and ministers. It's a problem that exists in ten members. What's dangerous in this article, it's just an understanding of what's a minister's function. You see, if we are considering in Article 24 some powers and duties of the minister in the context of being an in-coherent body of the ministry, then it's the matter of the State Administration Act and the Ministry Act. But in this law, ministers are seen as members of the government, i.e. as members of the college body. If they are viewed as members of a college body, then this is all unnecessary. He, as a member of the college body, has these powers that you have listed in previous members, where you have tried to define what the duties of a member of the government are. According to the logic of the matter, Article 24 had to apply to powers, rights, duties and responsibilities of ministers and vice-presidents of the government as members of the government. What you stated in this article, it's a matter that belongs to the State Administration Act and the Ministry Act. So there's a fundamental flaw that devalues any debate on Article 24. All of what he's trying to do with the amendment, it's a unnecessary job, because it's been fixing something that's been wrong since the start. It's absolutely impossible to correct. You have one problem, and this is a real problem, what to do when the minister resigns, and the National Assembly, or ruling coalition, that is, the parliamentary majority that supports the government is unable to schedule a session in a quick time, finds that he resigned at that or the next session selects a new minister, so there is a vacuum. It's right to ask the question. A similar situation is when it comes to resolution or other forms of termination of the mandate -- what is the status of the minister. If the status regarding his membership in the government is seen as a collegiate body, he is more disputed, but his status as an in-house body of a state is much more controversial. There is a problem as far as possible for him to abuse his position during that period. You've noticed as well as the promoters and the applicant of the amendment, but it's already a matter of criminal law. He abuses his condition that he resigned and has not been established, so he has the means, appoints, sets, prescribes some regulations, etc. That's the problem you didn't try to solve. This problem needs to be solved by the State Administration Act and the Ministry Act, and you've gone completely unnecessaryly far into this and, of course, this is getting really funny by formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15528	I thank Mr. Krasic. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15529	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator wanted to settle some things in this law, but I think the ruling majority is clear now that, as time goes on, this bill still needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Namely, the law has serious failures, which we have mentioned so far, which are formal-legal and material-legal. The law, on the other hand, is inconsistencies and I'm about to show it on this article I'm talking about right now. Article 24 bears the title "Operation of the Minister who resigned". The minister who resigned is required to carry out running tasks until the mandate ceases. In doing so, it may adopt regulations (cannot lay down regulations), if their adoption is related to the legal period or the needs of the State, etc. I think colleague Leila Ruzdic made it perfectly clear what the shortcomings in the way and terminology used in writing the member himself were. But I want to point out something else, so we don't repeat ourselves. It is unnecessary and not consistent in Article 24. write this content, and before that in Article 17. write the contents which are different. I will remind you, Article 17 says: "Governmental powers and government members after the term of office of the government has ceased." The title behind article 17 is not adequate, to be exact, not true. On the other hand, it is said that the government to which the term of office has ceased cannot propose laws. What if there's a current member of parliament sitting in the government? Is this in line with the constitutional authority of parliamentarians to submit a bill and remain a minister? Why would the government not have the right to carry out these tasks if the Constitution has been empowered to do so, and I think the Constitution has been empowered, because Article 17 is governed by a different issue which is governed by the Constitution, Article 90(4) and first, by Article 93, and then by Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we have a different definition of matter that is regulated by the Constitution quite precisely and clearly. I think this is kind of a upside-down thing, and regardless of the only explanation you've given for the rejection of the amendment, that the solutions in the Constitution are not good. That the solutions in the Constitution are not good we all know, and that is why we believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia needs to be changed. But we can't because solutions aren't good that we don't respect them at all. We must act according to what is our legal order. So the law is inconsistencies. Article 24 is not consistent with what is written in Article 17, and I think that is why you should accept this amendment submitted by Mrs Gordana Komic. But after all these discussions, I think it would be far better to withdraw this bill because of the shortcomings we have listed. Given that I have not received an answer to previous questions so far, I would ask that by the end of the debate I receive an answer to the question of the consent of this constitution with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the part concerning the constitutionality of provisions restricting the right of local self-government to adopt certain acts, i.e. which usurpises the Constitutional Court's right to appreciate the constitutionality and legality of these acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15530	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to point out the inconsistencies of the bill's proposal and re-comparate two legal provisions concerning a very similar situation. For example, when the Prime Minister submits a motion for the discharge of the minister, he immediately removes him from office and determines the minister who will carry out his duties. When the minister resigns, we are left without a minister and do not determine the minister who does his work. So, by the time the minister resigns, until the Assembly has received knowledge, according to the lawmaker, until his term is over, we do not have a minister and we have no one to do his jobs. You have very important ministries that must have ministers. How long will it take from resigning until the session is scheduled to have a quorum for his resignation? All this time, you won't have a minister. The bill promoter didn't predict anyone doing ministerial work on his behalf. He was working on the situation, so he said that the minister was running errands. Someone would have to explain to me what the current affairs of the minister are. You specifically worked out provisions in which case he could issue a regulation. So, you've gone so far as to predict who's going to do the running jobs if the minister resigned, and you didn't predict who's going to do the ministerial work. What if it's 15, 20, a month? It seems to me that at the time of Natasha Micic, we had two resignations that were not established in the Assembly for two or three months. The health minister had appointed a deputy to replace him, and two other ministers or two, I don't remember anymore, I don't think they were men, they didn't set up their deputies at all. If you are reading Article 24, from the moment of your resignation to the moment of establishment in the National Assembly, you do not have the role of minister in the government, there is no one to do the jobs, because no one from the Government is authorized to perform the duties of the minister who resigned. I think it's time to think a little bit and make some consistent proposal with the help of the amendments, see which amendments to adopt, which we don't, to make a law that can be applied. Otherwise, a law like this, if we bomb the amendments, so let's adopt, some don't, the government will be in a position to withdraw this proposal as soon as we adopt it in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15532	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15533	Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the assembly has come to the parliamentary seats where we are sitting to let us know that there are discussions on what might be accepted by the amendments and he resented me going to explain the amendment and not stay to negotiate, but this is still the first. I'll be there in less than five minutes. Article 25 has the title - Taking over the power of the minister to whom the new minister's term of office has ceased and the election of the new minister. Article 25 reads: "The power of the minister to whom the term of office has been suspended by a member of the Government who is appointed by the Prime Minister". The second opinion reads: "The Prime Minister is obliged to propose to the National Assembly the election of a new minister within 15 days of the end of the term of office of the previous minister." The last position: "The new minister has been elected by a majority of the votes of the total number of MPs." You can trust me or not, but we've tried to do a lot of things with this member, so it doesn't come down to what's typical that this member should be deleted, because none of the views can be used, but unfortunately, it's left to our amendment to delete Article 25. The reasons for erasing this member are ambiguity: how is this taking over the power of the minister to whom the mandate, which are the powers of the minister, is he thought of as an elder of the authority of the administration or is he referring to the jurisdiction of the Ministry Act, or is he referring to certain special powers? How is the Prime Minister going to empower another member of the government? Then, the Prime Minister has a 15-day deadline to propose a new minister. He then interferes again in the work of the National Assembly or, if you will, in the constitution defined as the minister is elected, so he defines that he has been elected by a majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. This member is unnecessary in any law, and in our opinion, there would be no place for him in the State Administration Act, nor in the Civil Service Act, because if you clearly define in Article. 23rd and 24, according to our amendments, what about the minister who resigns, what about the minister who's been resolved, then there's no need to talk about taking over power. Secondly, this shows that one "paper display" of the government is offered. We want a law that will allow an effective government, which will know the hierarchy, the link between the ministries and everything that includes coalition governments in the future. And this literally means nothing. Especially when, if you tie this member up and say that the Prime Minister gives the authority of that minister to a member of the government, and then go back to that provision, which we're also asking for to be deleted, that a member of the government can question whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his authority, you leave here to the Prime Minister to say for himself - this member of the Government will exercise these powers. Therefore, inconsistency and a complete absence of the need of Article 25. I really ask you to accept in the voting day that this member is deleted. You will improve, if anything else you will remove the ambiguity, the incorrect and unclear language of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15534	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15535	Now we come up with a real picture of what it means to operate on a new government law directed by the government of the democratic bloc, the government headed by Vojislav Kostunica. Now it can already be determined, because the continuity has been established from the first to this member, and then the background of this operation is visible. So it is theoretically possible that the Prime Minister, if the Government has 20 members, one president, now has one vice-president and 18 ministers, will submit 11 motions for the resolution of ministers, to use the authority it has under the bill, Article 22, in particular this position 3, that from the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal to the National Assembly's decision, the minister cannot exercise his powers, but rather be taken by a member of the Government who is the Prime Minister. We now have this elaborate situation in the event of resignation and then it is possible for the government with 20 members to come to the government of nine members and that it works well and works. Each minister has two resistors, has two or three powers, can be done uninterruptedly, to finish the job, and that would all be in accordance with this law as it is imagined. Unfortunately, the promoter was only wrong in one account. The government survives, the government has some composition, the government makes a political compromise for those elected by the majority in this National Assembly. If there is no political agreement, no compromise, why not say political interest, then there is no legal norm. And when it comes to government law, then politics goes on a rough course of law, and then there's no norm that could cover what's imagined. Logic is very simple, recognizable, constitutional powers are being exceeded and a special chapter is being given - the takeover of the power of the minister to whom the term of office has ceased. Again on the subject, here ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers and Prime Ministers are treated as an ingredient of the government, not an in-coherent body of a state body, when it comes to the minister as the head of the ministry. In the care of the ministry's affairs and its minister, it is said that now anyone elected as a member of the government can, while the government is going on, whether or not, it doesn't matter how, but to push through the entire mandate and then it is possible that one minister has two ministries. You've opened another topic for us. Then we'll practically have ministers with two votes when the government is ambushed. We'll have a minister who has two votes, and he didn't get the right here to be twice as equal a member of the government as another minister. That's where you messed up the math a little bit. I think it's urgent that you withdraw this from the procedure and you should try to convince the public to forget that this has ever been submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15536	The word has an MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this article 25, that is, this proposal should be deleted. The reason is very simple. First of all, it's just some kind of political responsibility. If the term of office of one of the government members, or one of the ministers, has come to an end, this should be resolved by the Prime Minister and the ruling majority by proposing the election of another member of the government. Can we limit the Prime Minister by 15 days? I don't think we can. I don't think it has a foothold in political mathematics, either. When the Prime Minister will propose to elect a new minister depends on his political stance, a political agreement between the coalition government or something else. In order for the Prime Minister not to extend it, then we should not allow, say, the Ministry of Capital Investment to take over the Minister for Local Self-Government. There is a Ministry Act, everything is clearly foreseen and there is no need to dissuade what is provided for in the provisions of the Ministry Act. I think this is another member of this law that unnecessarily complicates this matter. The matter here is quite clear, the ruling majority has the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister proposes the composition of the government. The government's composition gets most of it in parliament or it doesn't. If he wins, we have a legally elected government. When one of the members of the government resigned, the assembly found that resignation, it suspended its mandate. When his mandate ended, it is up to the ruling majority to choose a new one. Someone who has been elected, because the Assembly may have voted for this government for a reason, because someone who has been elected as the minister of police, the local self-government, has received the trust of this assembly because of her personality, because of her work, because of his experience, because of his program. He can't go past the will of this assembly right now. That job is being done by another minister. A new minister should be offered, and we cannot limit the Prime Minister. Don't tell me that disrespecting these 15 days will bring down the government tomorrow. He won't. It could, as was the case of Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, who de facto did not act as the minister he was appointed to, and we had a situation that Mr. Bubalo had performed that function for several months. It's not a good solution, it's not an appropriate way to solve these things, although I'm sure it's necessary to solve this. Unfortunately, there is much in the realm of political practice, much is in the domain of goodwill. We have expressed volunteerism in our political life. Why not leave this matter to political will, and that political will should be sanctioned politically. It seems to me that we are in a situation where we only have one more member of the law, another law that will in practice have no respect for those who need to enforce it. That's why I suggest you accept Mrs. Gordana Comic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15538	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15539	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, normally, a bad solution that we talked about in Article 23 now permeates the next members and then produces negative consequences in Article 25. Indeed, once again, I underline the view that it is impossible for the Prime Minister to delegate the portfolio to someone else and without the election of the Serbian Parliament. There's no such thing. It's impossible. We remind once again, we know very well, the legal practice requires, and the cases we've had, the earlier example with Mr. Marsicanin, practically seven months have functioned without a minister. That's something some say -- it was better. Probably, given what Mr. Martian was like, but this is really the kind of solution that represents a legal precedent. Indeed once again, I am asking the Proposer, with full respect for the reasons that they have been led not to accept the amendment of the Democratic Party to Article 25, I think that a really stubborn insistence is something that makes even greater damage to this bill. If we were right that there was no need for a session of the Assembly, which you were planning very badly, today you are extending the fact that we have already entered the 20th of May. In addition to having no quorum, we have repeatedly observed, as far as the Democratic Party MPs are concerned, we will work, but the fact is that our minister is tired. He's gone. I said it was no use to him or when he was gone, but since the Democratic Party is very important that if he has already proposed this law respects the MPs, and if he has already asked for the Assembly to work in the late hours, then at least he is obliged to attend the hall. He is a representative of the ruling majority, he has been elected by the majority and is at least obliged to respect the MPs and listen to them, if he does not answer them, and if he already writes arguments, which are indeed without comment, which is why the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party's MPs have been rejected on the draft of the law. I really think, and once again I propose to the ruling majority, for you it is far better, not a problem for the Democratic Party MPs, it is far better for you to interrupt this session today, continue tomorrow. Then you'll probably cool off, and realize that with the proposed amendments we really wanted and we meant that this bad law, almost inapplicable, we try to fix as much as possible. I once again appeal to representatives of the ruling majority to understand as good intentions and gestures of the Democratic Party that this law, as far as possible, correct. If you continue to insist – once again I say, eight members have been processed in more than six and a half hours, I remind you, you have a law on state administration and 45 amendments, if I am not mistaken – at this rate, as far as DS is concerned, we will end tomorrow, probably around 20.00 hours. I remind you once again, there are also some committee meetings scheduled, so I would ask the chairman to take care of how as zealous MPs we would be able to attend these committee sessions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15540	The word is from Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15541	It's just proof that I listened to you very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, we have made it clear that we will support this law because it is important, and it is important that the state has a government law. However, we said it was necessary and good for the Assembly to discuss the law on government before discussing the law on the National Assembly. Now it's showing up. And if there was a law on the National Assembly before this government law, some of these issues would have been settled. What's this about? In fact, I've been listening to controversy here, and I didn't want to take advantage of it as the chairman, so I'm going to go back to two sentences and about Article 23, because it's about Article 25, about which actually the minister is obliged to resign. I don't agree with this kind of formulation that stands, to be honest, in Article 23, but the amendment is worse, the amendment says the minister should resign to the Prime Minister. I can't, and I'll explain it, Mr. Nikolic, I've followed you and everyone else closely, someone to resign from whoever didn't pick him. The minister is elected by the assembly and he is the only one who can resign from this assembly, and the Prime Minister should inform it. That's why I went back to Article 23, there says and writes in the first position, the minister can resign from his resignation to the Prime Minister, and then to the National Assembly. It can't be like that. It must be clearly said that he is notifying the National Assembly, delivering it to the National Assembly, and he is notifying and can inform or inform the Prime Minister, so that the Prime Minister would not be surprised and would not know from the public that the minister has resigned. This law isn't just for this government, we heard the day before that one law lasted since 1972, so it can't be applied. Analysis can always be applied in a state of emergency, whether it's 1972 or any other year. We don't write this law for this government, we write for the state of Serbia. If we're writing for this government, so if someone else comes to power and thinks they should change, then we're discussing eight hours or six and a half hours of eight amendments. So I think, I must say, it can be treated more like a technical failure to put first notices to the Prime Minister, and then to the President of the Assembly. If it were to remain this way, it would be a criticism in place, that this is an office system and that it informs the Prime Minister and ends the mandate, and that the Assembly just needs to take it into account. If we come to Article 25, then in that case, the power of the minister whose term of office has ceased to be taken over by the Prime Minister and I think it would be completely pointless to accept the amendment and to delete that member. In that case, what does that mean? I think it's a good thing that the 2nd point says that within 15 days, a minister must be elected, precisely because of the fact that we had experience in the past term. My respects, sir. What do you apologize to me, your problem, it's not mine, I'm here, and you're not. It was precisely because of the problems we had in the last term, and that the Minister for Roads was called two or three months, the total campaign lasted and was in affairs etc., and she was a minister for two or three months, nor was she resigning or being considered. It would be wrong to accept the amendment to the 25th article, and that the government should consider the 23rd member to find a way to technically implement the first position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15542	In the words of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15543	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we MPs are discussing amendments to the Bill of Government at one o'clock in the morning, on the proposal of a non-participating assembly majority, is not the greatest evil. I think it's a lot worse that, now that we've reached Article 25, it's obvious that this bill was written by someone at one or two o'clock in the morning. And if that weren't the case, these illogical, nebulous, contradictory things wouldn't be in article 25 compared to the previous members. When it looks at Article 1 25's position, he says, the authority of the minister whose term of office has been suspended by a member of the government who is appointed by the Prime Minister. A member before this, Article 24, the first position, says -- the minister who resigned is obliged to do current jobs until his term is over. What's real here now, and what's a joke. Does the minister perform ongoing tasks until his mandate or the authority of the minister whose term of office has been suspended by a member of the government appointed by the Prime Minister. Good morning, Mr. Lonchar, we've been working here a long time, and I expect you to answer this question, read the stenogram, since you haven't listened. It would be good if you followed us a little bit, so you might accept some amendments. For example, Article 25 has no place in this law, really. The power of the minister whose term of office has been suspended by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister is not acceptable at all is unacceptable for any government. Imagine what kind of papacy would be created in your current government if this were applied. When you have five governments and five Prime Ministers, and let's say one minister resigns, and he is a member of the SPO government, which the minister will be filled in when the Prime Minister is not allowed out of that framework. It's just got to be from the SPO. That's how you work. Yes, Mr. Balinovac, this government is known to have five presidents. In his second position, he writes -- the Prime Minister is obliged to propose to the National Assembly the election of a new minister within 15 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the previous minister. Since you've already said that the Prime Minister may have the authority of a minister to do these tasks, I don't know why you're rushing the Prime Minister to propose a new minister within 15 days. More importantly, the Prime Minister's proposal does not mean that he will be elected to the Assembly, or does not mean that he will come to the Assembly's agenda at all, since again, I am speaking from the practices of this assembly, we have more than two or three months of the initiative to resolve the minister of education, and then Minister Dinkic, the entire government. So, if there are proposals, that is irrelevant, it is important that the President of the Assembly does not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it never sees the light days and comes to debate. The same fate can happen to the Prime Minister and that he submits a proposal to the National Assembly, and the president of the National Assembly is defined for the second agenda and we do not have a new minister. In the third position, the new minister was elected by a majority of the total number of MPs. Now, you've really discovered a hole in the pot. One hundred fifty times through this law is said in which way and when the elected minister. It is disputed when a minister will be elected instead of one whose duties are done by someone under the authority of the Prime Minister. They're in complete dissent with all three of these attitudes. The conflict between the first position of this member and Article 24 is obvious to every lawyer, and even to laymen who read the laws a little. Indeed, Minister, accept this amendment, for you will have a miracle of the law. When these amendments are voted on in the voting day, I expect my fellow lawyers to react to these purely legal amendments by voting for them, and then you'll have worse confusion in this law than the Minister with the Labour Act, so he doesn't apply it today. This reflects the irresponsibly of the minister’s relationship with the National Assembly, or the fact that the Ministers of the National Assembly and MPs take it unseriously, and that is not the case. These amendments should be seriously considered. It's better for you. It's easier to apply the law if you know which amendment is being adopted. Which amendment you accept, it becomes an integral part of the law, and then there are no misunderstandings and no discrepancies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15544	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the government has accepted the amendment to Articles 18 and 19, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15545	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to the information just announced by the president, and also on the last statement of the People's Parliament, I think I've assured you that tonight there is a minister before you who respects this assembly and the MPs, regardless of the fact that tonight is almost an hour after midnight and that I have expressed my willingness, even in the opening statement, that I will accept all those amendments that show, after an argument, that they deserve it with their own quality. After the arguments we heard, regarding the amendments of the People's MP, Mrs Gordana Komic, to the members 18th and 19th, and after checking whether this is really legal and whether it fits the law, not to disturb some deadlines, the government is ready to accept these amendments, so I will also specify them. Therefore, it is acceptable in Article 18 that Mrs Gordana Komic's amendment to position 2, which reads "from submitting the proposal to a vote of non-trust cannot go beyond three or more days" can be deleted. Also, in the same article, it is acceptable for me to amend item 4 to delete the words "and within the same time limit" in that position, and to remain "determined also on the motion to vote non-confidentially on the President of the Government". An amendment submitted to Article 19, which is to delete Article 2, which reads "from submitting the proposal to voting on trust cannot go less than five or more days". Furthermore, to delete Article 4, which reads: "A government that has not been voted can resign". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15546	Thank you, Minister. To avoid conflict after the deadlines have been accepted, I ask that the Legislative Committee meet immediately in a small room, so that the amendment by the amendment promoter to Article 22 can be made, in order to remove the position that would now be in the conflict and that repeats this same matter. I ask Mrs. Komic to the Legislative Committee... Here you go, please, in a small room. I'd like all members of the Legislative Committee, please. We keep going, because it's got two bets. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above article 26. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15547	Ladies and gentlemen, the correction spoken of by the President of the National Assembly, requesting a meeting of the Legislative Committee, will be given orally. Therefore, in the amendment to Article 22, the position to be amended is a third position. I agree with the amendment that this third position remains the same and that the fourth position is deleted, because I want to be in this room to explain the amendments, and the Legislative Committee can respect the stenogram of this session as well as that on the Legislative Committee I have given my verbal position that it is an amendment correction, and under a prior agreement with the President of the Assembly. As in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as long as we needed to be in the O.R. right now, and for that, of course, the President of the Assembly will be responsible. The ease of the post of MPs is that I can accept such a proposal and that it remains a formula that will cause problems, but if it is on behalf of the agreement, I accept that it is treated as a correction of the amendment. All kinds of criticism that I can't do this in the Rules of Procedure in advance I accept as justifiable and clear. To return to the amendment relating to heading 3. Order of the government. In the proposed text of the law, which reads - The government's regulation, the second part of the title is - making decisions of the government, and in two positions, Article 26, which follows after the title, reads: "The government takes decisions at the session, most of the votes of all the members of the government. The way the government works and decides, and the acts adopted by the Prime Minister, are more detailedly arranged by the government's rules of procedure." Our amendment suggests that the title - The government's regulation is changed and that it is - the government's internal organisation, because that's the closest thing to what we thought could be defined by these two attitudes. If we were to act only by party spirit, we would delete or put a sentence - what is being arranged by the government's rules of procedure. But we just want to fix it, that there are no very clear associations. You know, when you say, "Government" and "Government" and "Government" and "Government" and "Government" and "Government" and "C"" and "C" and "C"" and "C" and "C"" and "C"" and "C" and "C" and "C"" and "C" and "C"" and "C" and "C"" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C"," and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C"," and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C, and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C, and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C, "C" and "C, "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C, and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C" and "C The discussion is the fact in the first position, where the government is said to be taking decisions at a session of most of the votes of all members of the government. There are government decisions that don't even have that regulation. There are government decisions for which I would prescribe a qualified majority with my rules of procedure to make, but it is all a matter of government procedures. So the procedure is also the subject of the government's rules of procedure. The acts brought by the Prime Minister are said to be more detailedly governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Government. The acts of the Rules of Procedure of the Government shall not be regulated. The Rules of Procedure determine procedures and procedures, and the acts are arranged for something else, but I illustrate to you that we gave up the original proposal to delete this member and to at least write down the government's order, calculating that the legislator knew what he wanted to say when he wrote it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15548	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Tomislav Nikolic, then MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15549	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment must be accepted, in fact it should be accepted, and I would use the word "must." So, because first of all, the promoter is not clear to himself at all when he uses the word "edition", and he claims that the word is synonym for the word "organisation", because he wrote that the acts brought by the Prime Minister are more detailedly arranged by the government's rules of procedure, which is unacceptable and changing constitutional categories. Because the Constitution when defining the government and its affairs, competences and duties, powers, in Article 90(5), says - the government sets out principles for the internal organisation of ministries. He doesn't say about the interior planning of the ministries. In Article 94, which discusses the affairs of the state administration and ministries, paragraph 5 states - the law regulates the organisation and jurisdiction of the ministries. I don't know why you experimented so much, why you got away from the Constitution, from the language of the Constitution, and from the language of the people, for which this law is written, but the word "edit" is cast out, undefined what it is. I think we'll prove it by discussing the amendments. Return to the use of the word used by the Constitution of Serbia - the organisation, and when the Constitution writes about the arrangement, then elaborate it with the provisions of the laws that will talk about the arrangement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15550	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15551	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your explanation for refusing this amendment is not convincing enough. So that synonym story here is simply not adequate for two reasons. The first reason was stated by a respected predecessor, and I will read to you from Article 91: "The organisation and way of working and deciding the Government is governed by the law and by the Rules of Procedure. "It is too obvious that you did not properly name this article. The other thing is, if that's the case, you can't convince me that the term - is sending, more correct than the term delivers, at least when it comes to terms that are appropriate to the law. There's something else I want to say here. The government takes decisions at the session of most of the votes of all members of the government. I don't know, I'm not a member of the government, but is it necessary for this to be governed by the law, whether there are decisions of minor importance that would be made by a relative majority? We may be able to standard the matter that would be made by qualified majority, but this is how we begin to predict the absolute majority to make certain decisions, I'm not sure it's a good solution. I don't argue that you have any other logic regarding such a solution, but I think you may be burdenlessly burdening the government's work by requiring that even for some decisions of minor importance an absolute majority is required. I think a relative majority would be enough, but at the very least you as a member of the government may have a different explanation. As for Mrs. Comic's remarks regarding the acts, I agree with her. I don't think there was a need for you to predict that the rules of procedure adopted by these acts are governed, because Article 90 is point 2. The Constitution provides for the Government to adopt regulations, decisions and other law enforcement acts. I think we could have established these other acts by law, because it's more appropriate to me as a step below the Constitution, than only to pass it on to the Serbian Government's rules of procedure. It's obviously some disagreement between us as opposition and you as a promoter. I am pleased that you have accepted our amendments to the recently mentioned Articles 18 and 19, but this time I suggest you consider our amendments to Article 6 and Article 20, or to what I was talking about, which is that in the end we define in which way the resignation will be submitted, whether it will be written or be oral, and if it will be oral, whether it will have an oral explanation, and if it will be written, whether it will be written in writing. And this one on Article 6, which I mentioned earlier, I don't think it's in agreement with the Constitution or with our political definitions, which is an uninterrupted development and protection of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15552	The title above article 27 and the 27th amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Gordana Comic and MP Zlatan Jovanovic, with a correction of the amendment. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted refers to the title above Article 27 – the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister – and it says that this title and article 27 are deleted. This member was a very serious problem for any applicant of the amendment who has the sole intention of improving the norm and for greater clarity of the provisions, since it is imperative for all, especially for this law. In all four positions, Article 27 has also mixed labour law, and the status of advisers, and mandates, and the position of cabinets in the government. What can be interpreted when this proposed member of the law is read is that the promoter predicts that the cabinet is at the same time a type of government. So, the government that we have here in Serbia, in the Constitution that is valid, is a parliamentary government, and the government's cabinet type differs by choice, and by authority, and by mode of operation, and it is unnecessary to put in a cabinet of the Prime Minister, bringing in a reader or one who needs to worry about applying the law in the dilemma of what it is. When I read you all four attitudes, then it will be quite clear why this member should certainly be deleted. So the member we are asking to delete is: "The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have cabinets, which do professional and other tasks for their needs on their orders. The President and Deputy Prime Minister may appoint advisers inside the cabinet." Now we're moving on to counsel's labour rights. "The working relationship in the cabinet is based on a certain time, while the government's president, or vice-president, is in office." This can't stand in government law, as much as you try to interpret and whatever you try to interpret. "The rights and obligations of advisers who do not have a working relationship are governed by the contract, according to the general rules of civil law, and the compensation for work – according to the criteria laid down by the Government. "So, a deal on work for someone who should be doing some work for the Prime Minister, you put a second position in a member who has the title of "The President's Office and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister". Third position: "The cabinets are led by cabinet heads, who are appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister and who have the position of Director of the Government's Office who is responsible for the Prime Minister". The last position: "The Chief of Staff shall terminate the term of office with the end of the term of office of the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, resignation or resolution". Even if we understand that there were good intentions, all of a sudden you're bringing in a chief of staff who has a mandate. The term of office may have a chosen or appointed person and be known to mean the term of office. Why does the head of the cabinet stop his mandate, how did his term of office begin, what is he responsible for during his term of office? Why do you place one person who is necessary in every institution and so on in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fourth position of one of these laws. Again, there's a particular disturbance that there's a cabinet type of government. You can believe it or not, but if you had proposed a cabinet type of government, the Democratic Party would have supported it, but if it had been clearly written in the law, because we believe that the cabinet type of government is good for Serbia. She had a cabinet government type in a short period between two wars. It is necessary, if we agree on that, to implement it through all documents concerning the organisation of the government. But as long as the government is parliamentary, you must not be required to have a formulation of the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister without talking about the cabinets of the ministers. So the president and vice president have a cabinet and the ministers don't, and then the ministers have rights, and that's what you've introduced in the state administration law, to name advisors. Some other members are involved in labour law and this provision that, if he does not accidentally establish a working relationship, his work compensation is considered under the general civil law rules. There are limits to which you can allow yourself the freedom of imagination in some law. This is a border that does not touch, and especially does not cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15554	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15555	I've prepared myself. I have to use this time. Of course I support erasing the amendments. Being illiterate, it's so annoying that I can't mention it, but it's also illogical. I have a few questions. The first point of the first sentence is said: "The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have cabinets (that means there are more of them), which do professional and other tasks for their needs on their orders." What needs? Is there supposed to be a point standing there?? Whether their domestic needs, private needs, social needs -- it's really illogical. "The working relationship in the cabinet is based on a certain time, while the government's president, or vice-president, is in office." What kind of duty? Maybe it's a mandate. In the position of the fourth member, the head of the cabinet is given a mandate, which he has no right to, because no person has been elected. But the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are given a duty. They have a duty, but they don't have a mandate. It's not their term of office. It's their duty. Further: "The rights and obligations of advisers who do not establish a working relationship are governed by a contract under the general rules of civil law". What happens to those who have a working relationship? How it will stop if it is provided in the earlier view of ending a working relationship when the term of office, or duty, is terminated, as stated in the law. It's supposed to say "mandate," but that's not what it says. When duty ceases, what about the chief of staff's employment relationship? In the third position are mistakes. It's called "the vice president" and it's supposed to be "the vice presidents", and this connection between the government and those who have the position of directors should be "if they have a director". These are little things compared to all other illiteracy, so they are completely negligible. It could be a technical mistake. We now come to the fourth position, the head of the cabinet ends the mandate, which I have already commented, with the end of the term of office of Prime Minister. The same was said earlier, "as the cabinet president's duties continue to be carried out by cabinet members" and earlier it was said that the cabinet chief is inside the cabinet. The legislator says the president and vice-presidents of the government can appoint advisers within the cabinet. So, the working relationship in the cabinet to all members, including the boss, as provided for in Article 2, is foreseen to end the mandate, but I think it's a duty. It is repeated in the fourth attitude. So he's so obnoxious, so illogical and so illiterate that I think you have to accept an amendment that requires his erasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15556	Thank you. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the proposal was intended to introduce the so-called member. The cabinet type of government in Serbia, but I don't think this member belongs in this bill. There are several reasons, I will try to explain it here and convince the promoter that this should be deleted, i.e. to accept the amendment that Mrs. Comic and I have submitted in the same form. First, the title above article 27 reads "The cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister". This title is not in line with one member at the beginning of this law, which mentions the vice-president of the government, where it's spoken in plural, and here it's about unity. So it should be termsologically coordinated, just for language purity. The other thing, I think it is trying to introduce this member to Serbia one institution -- the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Ministers, like this one we already have, and I don't know which law it is prescribed and established, which is the People's Office of the President of the Republic. Probably in the near future, if this stays and adopts, we will have a second diary that will start with the activities of the President of the Republic, then the activities of the National Office, and then the activities of the Prime Minister's cabinet, and then the activities of the Deputy Prime Minister's office, and so on. It also doesn't make sense, and it's not clear why it goes so far down here or down to that level that it defines here in the law what the powers of the cabinet, the chief of staff, who can be chief of staff, that the Prime Minister and Vice President can be appointed as advisors within the cabinets, etc. Literally, it's just that it hasn't been said here that the Prime Minister's secretary has to be blonde, younger than 25, etc. You've brought a bill like this to that level. If we look at what is being made possible by this member to the President and Vice-President of the Government or what is proposed, it is said first that the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister shall carry out professional and other tasks for the needs of the Prime Minister and Vice-President. If we look further at this bill, we have in Article 28 of the Prime Minister's advice, where there is once again the possibility of forming two councils to help the Prime Minister carry out these professional activities. Also, Article 29 provides for the General Secretariat of the Government, which also performs technical and professional tasks. Then, in Article 31, there are government services, which are also designed to carry out these technical and professional tasks. In article 33 of the government's work bodies. Aren't there a little too many of those organs and bodies to help the prime minister do professional work? It has also been said here that cabinets have their own bosses, that these bosses have their mandates regarding the government's term of office, or vice president of the government. I think all of this is too detailed for the law, that all of this should be defined and regulated within the General Secretariat, that this is the matter that the General Secretariat of the Government should prescribe and regulate with its acts, that it is not the place in the law and that this amendment should be accepted and that Article 27 of this bill should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15558	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in article 26. The proposal for a government law can be said to show the nature of this highly inaccurate and poorly-organised legal project, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly. The SRS MP club, or Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic, who submitted an amendment to Article 27, where it is required that the title above Articles 27 and 27 be deleted, said an argument for which reasons it should be done. If we are talking about an amendment to Article 27 that has been submitted by the SRS, we have tried, as well as all the other proposals that we have made in the form of amendments to the bill, to fix this law, but we are coming into a situation to ask the question, because it is so badly written, that this law can be fixed at all. For several hours now, we have been trying to convince the minister that this law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, because a long time ago, the National Assembly did not have such an opportunity, despite all our good will, to make it perfectly clear when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted this law to the National Assembly. So it is one matter that must be fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the case of this and the previous members, it is evident that this law is highly ill-conceived and is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so despite attempts to amend this legislative proposal, it is obvious that it will not change significantly. Despite all your explanations for this speaker, when you went out and defended this legal project, you had no argument to explain to us who proposed these amendments. I can't understand, as with many other legislative proposals that you have proposed, whether you're just going to have this law passed quickly, and it's a very important legislative project that you've had to submit to the National Assembly much more precisely and much clearer, and then it would be much easier for us to help you with this legal project as it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15560	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15561	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you're going to use the powers laid down in Article 94. Rules of Procedure or to speak, since it's obvious that the quorum is gone, and that's what we're going to prove to you. We're gonna get out of the O.R. and I'm gonna ask you to count how many of us we are. Let's see a little bit of this article 27. Mr. Minister, it seems to me, if you were writing this bill, that you thought this was the only bill you'd write during this term, so you tried to keep something in mind. I was just complaining to you about the word "edication." In your explanation, you said it was a better word than the word "organization." And when you explained why you did not accept this amendment, you wrote: "The amendment promoter unnecessarily equates the organisational form within the government." Why didn't you write here that it unnecessarily equates the form of government order? How come you used the word "organization" here, and you say that the word "edition" much more corresponds to the spirit of the Serbian language. Now let's go to Article 27. First of all, I suggest that when you write the bill the second time, you use a single or multiple, especially in one of the same members, because everyone who interprets the law, who acts according to it, acts, acts, enough to say "cabinette" and then all the cabinets within it are represented. You say "work relationship in the cabinet," and then you say in Section 3, "The cabinets are run by cabinet heads." I guess, "The cabinet is run by the chief of staff." We don't care how many of those cabinets you have here. Five cabinets, five cabinet heads, but the cabinet is run by the head of the cabinet, appointed and resolved by the president, or vice president of the government and who has a position. It's one norm that's clean, which is perfectly clear, and not cabinets have cabinet heads who are appointed by the vice presidents of the government and who have rank as such and as such. Of course, why we wanted it to be all in the General Secretariat of the Government, and we'll discuss it to the General Secretariat. You faced a problem, where luck would be a sweet problem, but it turned out to be a difficult problem. And just as we have problems in local self-government, you're probably in the formation of government, and we'll have in forming a new government, entering a government building, and finding every desk busy. Now you find yourself facing a problem that you have all the places filled with people you don't know about, that you don't know whether ideologically they're going to follow the government, whether they're going to mess up, whether they're received by some previous ideology. You're trying to solve it now, but it seems not clear enough to me. You interfered in the cabinet, determined how a working relationship was established in the cabinet, how the work relationship in the cabinet ended, but you didn't do it for the General Secretariat. If the Secretary-General is doing professional work for the government, it means he works both for the president and for the vice presidents, because the president and vice president are part of the government. They're not separated from the government. The cabinet formed by the president is part of the General Secretariat. I understand the problem that has been created and you need to make cabinets for the president and vice presidents of the people who work there, and of course the president and vice presidents want to bring people into whom they have great trust. Of course he can't be the former chief of staff of the former president's office as head of the new president's office. It wasn't worked out here until the end. Not only can the post of secretary-general cease the mandate to be a solution to the Secretary-General's problem. There are hundreds of people in that secretariat. What are you going to do with them? You can't fire them, he hasn't stopped their mandate. You can't work with them. Maybe you can do the other jobs you predicted, but you can't do the professional ones. So, Mr. Minister, I suggest you withdraw this bill of yours. You didn't write it right, unfortunately. I even know what area you doctored from, and I'm terribly surprised that you could write a bill like this. Then the question arises whether the bill was done in a dictatorship. I'd avoid working on a dictatorship. The law loses nothing at all if you accept the amendment. It is known who will do cabinet affairs, and this is how to include even working relations in the Bill on Government, a matter that regulates the Rules of Procedure, a matter that regulates regulations, do not bother the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a matter that is not legal, a matter that is solved by a sublegal act or by an act of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15562	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15563	The Constitution allows and requires the government law to regulate the organisation, mode of work and decision-making of the government. How organizationally the government will look and on the issue of how the government services will be organised, how many services there will be and how they work is certainly matter to be present in this law. However, when this member was proposed, the promoter succumbed to one of the pressures. The cabinet, that's not what you call on the phone of a vice president or prime minister, so they say, "Good afternoon, this is the cabinet of the Prime Minister." That's not it. The cabinet here is designed as an organisational part of the government, as a service, as a sector, as a department. Everything that's supposed to exist has to be at the General Secretariat of the Government. The problem here is that the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister have the need to have their own environment and have special advisers in their environment, whose status must be regulated, so whether it was Vladeta Jankovic, whether it was once Aleksandar Tijanic, whether it was Rade Bulatovic once, Gradimir Nalic, means there must be one immediate environment that needs to be given an institutional framework. This cap, this framework is some cabinet as an organisational unit that is outside the General Secretariat, but under the direct patronage of the President, or Vice-President of the Government. We can't accept that because it can only be an organisational part within the Office of the Secretary General, but we are offering you a solution to this problem that caused this. They would all work, conditionally speaking, in the immediate environment of the Deputy Prime Minister. In the future, they would probably have to be admitted to a working relationship for a certain time and be employed at the General Secretariat of the Government and share a working-legal position depending on the political and legal position of the Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister, because it is a perfectly normal phenomenon in many countries that after the constitution of the government officials, who worked in the immediate environment of the former Deputy Prime Minister, share the fate of the government's vice-president. But you're not suggesting that solution. You're making your own kind of buildup, making a new administration, and going so far as to even give the government's vice president the right to set up and resolve their faces with his own will. There's nothing like it that the vice president of the government can't do at all. Even the Prime Minister can't do that. If you think you're making a legal basis for it this way, you're wrong. There's no legal basis for such behavior here. So you have succumbed to the demands of some people, who are probably briefly in government, and their need to have their own mini-government. It's already been seen with us. In 2001, it was through agencies, bureaus, offices, etc., where there was also this problem, but they solved it with a regulation. You think it's much more legal to get rid of the law. No, you solve this by law with regard to the working bodies of the Government, the General Secretariat of the Government, the service within the Government, and then within that you internally create these mini-cabinettes where people work for a certain time and share the fate of the officials they follow and not like this. You're trying to provide much better status, untouchableness, protection, etc. I wouldn't be surprised if the Deputy Prime Minister had a proper government over his cabinet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15564	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted to Article 30 refers to Article 4. Article 30 has the title – Secretary-General of the Government. In the first three attitudes, it is said that the government has the Secretary-General, that he is appointed and resolved by the Government on a proposal from the Prime Minister, that he is responsible for the Prime Minister and that he is the Head of the General Secretariat of the Government and that he is taking care of the execution of government acts, on the preparation of the cabinet's meetings and that he is helping the Prime Minister in other government affairs. It's more or less okay. However, the fourth stance says the government's secretary-general's term of office ends with the end of the cabinet's term of office, resignation or resolution. So we suggest that the fourth position in Article 30 be deleted. We don't think the secretary general has a mandate. Not in the sense of how the mandate of the MP is treated, or the government's mandate, or the minister's mandate or anyone's mandate at all. And here's what we thought and said about the state administration law, when we cited the reasons why we didn't practically submit amendments to the state administration law, because it's because of the language that's written absolutely impossible. We think that we should insist on professionals in the state administration, because it's the only way we can have an administration that's completely depolitized, which is the common goal of building institutions. The secretary general should be employed by the government administration, and he has and must perform his duties until the government's handover, and later if the deadlines for the next secretary's election so require. He's a political person right now. This means that the Secretary-General of the Government should be a person of confidence to the Prime Minister and the Government in general, but that before the person is close to the Prime Minister and before he is a political figure, he would have to be an expert in performing affairs in the General Secretariat. In that sense, it is difficult for us to talk about the mandate, because we choose the government for four years and it is understood that what the Government chooses for itself will last as long as this government, which this assembly has chosen, that the mandate lasts four years or three years, or maybe two mandates after some regular elections, it remains to be seen. We don't think there's any reason to state particularly here the definition of the government's secretary-general's mandate. We talked in the debate about the state administration law that no one is preventing us from now in such places as the Secretary-General or any place in the executive bodies, we're setting up experienced people from the state administration, who have 10, 15, 20 years of experience, and that's not what stopped anyone and the government that we supported, so it still didn't happen, and no one is preventing this government from being defined by political loyalty and loyalty, but it does. It would be much better to see the action that we would support if, in professional places, in places where competence and neutrality are required, and which is very important here in the Assembly, in the administration of the Assembly and in the Government, that we have people of professions that are neutral of political loyalty and loyalty to anyone. They guarantee that their advice, their consultation and their integrity will guarantee the quality of the government. So that's all we can benefit from. It probably takes time for all of us to pass in Serbia to be aware that there is no benefit from political furniture, especially for those who define themselves as infinitely political and loyal people. Who among us still doesn't know that in Serbia everything is known about everyone, in every city, and so in our Assembly and in the Government, it is not ready to have an ear for that word, no one is stopping us from entering the depolitisation of the state administration. If before that there is impatience, if there is a personal attitude, then there will be no place for neutral people in the administration, nor in the judiciary. The complete reform process in Serbia will slow down. I am not saying that this government or this majority is responsible, it is a responsibility that we all share, no matter where we are on the political scene of Serbia and in any of the institutions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15566	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15567	So if the legislators had taken this law into account, they probably wouldn't have made such a mistake, as shown in Article 30. For an introduction just to point out, you now have in the ministries assistant ministers who are appointed persons, the assistant minister is appointed by the government. She's setting them up to serve as assistant minister for some period, four years. If there is a change in government, a new government, if the gap between the first and second governments is, say, two years, the new government is authorized to resolve the deputy minister. If this ministerial assistant came to the post from the ministry, the very act of discharge would stop him and his working relationship would be at hand and it would seem to me six months. So, by the very fact that he was appointed assistant minister, he loses his employment relationship with the ministry if he was in a working relationship and after six months of that appointment, the story is finished. Why did I take this as an example? So I can show you what a termological error has been made here. I will not burden you with the differences between what a mandate means and what a time someone has chosen. You could suggest here that the Secretary-General of the Government be appointed on time for two years. Or that you wrote on time of four years. You are here his appointment and the time in which he can perform that function tied to the fate of the government. There's been a mistake. I have to tell you that what you wrote in your last attitude is probably clear to you what you meant, but it's not clear to the public who reads this. He says the Secretary-General of the government's mandate ends with the end of the term of office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's term of office ends with the disbanding of the National Assembly. As a form of termination of office of the Prime Minister or the loss of office of a member of the government, we also have the resignation, and the resolution, and the vote of mistrust in the National Assembly. You probably thought that the termination of the term of office included all forms of coming down from the government, but then what goes after is unclear, whether this resignation or the resolution at the end of the sentence applies to the government or to the Secretary-General, because the Secretary-General can resign and can resolve it, and we were trying to resolve one of the secretary-generals. This is full of irregularities. I don't want to waste my time explaining what it means if someone chooses to perform a function or set up a function in some period of time and what the mandate means. The difference was also addressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Look at the provisions on the mandate concerning Members of Parliament. If that analogy is transferred to the faces, then it is right to note that the word - mandate cannot be used to define a period in which a person has acquired authority, right and duty to do a job. So this amendment seems meaningful, however, does not correct what stands ahead as a problem and as a lack.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15568	Thank you. On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15569	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, things are only now beginning to become clear. The government felt it was nearing its end, and there are many members and supporters of the parties -- coalition partners, and they need to be fostered somewhere. They tried, they didn't do everything they could to get them in and out through the formation of all those agencies. You remember all those laws that we passed, so every ministry agency, and again the agency, and now we're in a position to back it up a little bit, and then they can go from power to power. The cabinets for the president are being formed, the Deputy Prime Minister's office is being formed, he exists. In the National Assembly, the secretary of the National Assembly is in charge of the organisation, so the head of the cabinet of the president of the Assembly is appointed by the secretary of the assembly. Why don't the secretary general change these people who were in the previous cabinets, cabinet chiefs, cabinet chiefs, etc. And when the government shifts, the secretary general will be replaced, the cabinet heads will be replaced, and all administrative staff will remain, with other ideology, some new or not new, but the SRS will take over the helm in this state of Serbia. And then we'll have to, as happened in the Zemun municipality, find 180 more people than the municipality normally needs. And then, when these people are temporarily not deployed, or temporarily unallocated to jobs, so much noise rises, forgetting that when they came to power, a few hundred people fired and brought twice as many of their own. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the Government or the Minister needs this. It can be very easily solved through the secretary general and the cabinet issue, and the chief of staff and everything else. This article should be deleted. Without this member, and without the previous one, this law would make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15570	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 33a be added after article 33. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15571	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth in a series of amendments that, by the spirit of the DS, would certainly be put into a bill that would be passed in the Assembly and that we would like to see in any draft law. What is good news for the fact that this member that we want to add after Article 33, so the new title and Article 33a, is that we all want to imitate our institutions with the recommendations of the Implementation Study and what it looks like to be a well-organised government in the European countries that are already members of the EU, so this member fits into a document that the Office for the Association of the Government of Serbia and called the Communication Strategy, which will be the main document of the Government, and then in part and the Assembly, when we talk about the list of jobs that we all need to do together to meet the recommendations of the Implementation Study. Following the proposaler's idea that he has a title above every member, the title we propose is the Open Government. Article 33a reads -- "The government educates public relations services and relations with citizens. The government is obliged to establish an Open Government Day as a day of direct communication with citizens. Government services for public relations and with citizens, the Government's Rules of Procedure are in charge of organising an Open Government Day. The government is obliged to provide all information on its work via the Internet and on two-way communication with Internet users." This is one of the most common means of communication in EU-access countries that are already members of the EU. We believe in the European spirit of the promoter, if nothing else and the member we propose to the amendment is a confirmation of the definition of European standards in the performance of public affairs. Part of this communication, such as the Internet, is already being implemented by the government without a legally established obligation, and we think that such communication gives good results. We have no record of who all the users of www. It's sick. It's sick. yu and whether there is a two-way communication with citizens who need some information about the government, but this amendment should be accepted to show that we are ready to cross another step in the development of the government as an institution for citizens. The remark that can be given is the wording in the amendment that we have said that it is an obligation to provide all information on its work and to note that there is information from the work of the Government that the government cannot provide. It is understood that this type of information and documents has specific markings, and it is understood that they are not for internet communication or for public relations, or for civil relations services. As we have commented in public on the work of the Government, the public work of the Government is a voluntary act that the Government says - you finance us (when I say - you, I mean all citizens in Serbia) to do some jobs on your behalf. Here's what we do for your money. It is the healthiest possible communication between citizens and the government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't see any reason for this amendment to be rejected. It fits even in this concept of the law, if you can talk about the concept. We believe that the government itself would get to say -- here, we have decided that in the government law, which we will apply immediately after publication in the Official Messenger, we will establish Open Government Day and prove that the government is ready to communicate with citizens. The National Assembly with many difficulties, but to our mutual joy, finally established one first step, the first form of communication with the citizens. It also benefits the National Assembly and citizens, who can come on the day of the Open Assembly, and there is no reason not to be so with the Government and not to be in the law, when the good part of communication is already in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15572	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15573	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, when you are discussing the Bill of Government, you are always in or may happen to be trapped to debate as someone who will never be in the government or to think as someone who plans to be a member of the government very quickly. That's why you might happen to adopt amendments that you should establish when you come to power. This is my basic objection to the legislator. So I don't think either of these members should have been proposed from 26 to 33, because this directly introduces what the Constitution has left to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's unnatural, we don't need to pass a law now that we're bound by a new government. Well, the Constitution also imagined that governments would compete by making each one their own organization and structure, and having the breadth and opportunity to prove that it was more capable than the previous one, that it could predict, and the service, and the arrangement. And that Article 90, point 9, says that the government educates professional and other services for its own purposes, and this is not legislative matter. In response to this amendment, the legislator tells us that it is not a legislative matter, and then falls into the trap that six members have proposed to us as legislative matter before what he says is regulation matter. If the government's gonna have an open day, that depends on the government. We can't say in the Assembly, the government will communicate via the Internet with citizens, order the government to communicate. Let's make it a government decision on how to communicate, shall we? I think the amendment promoter has fallen into a trap to point to only one area where the government will regulate its relations and what we've missed. Maybe the government will organize free games, charity concerts, maybe the government will organize a people's office, so in all municipalities, the national office, it's left to the government itself. That's why I think that if you're holding some meetings of the Legislative Committee, and the Government itself should stand up, so we're sorting out what the Constitution has given her, and these are members from 26 to 33, there are seven. And the President's office, the Vice-President's office, the General Secretariat and the Government's services, and for me, it's all left to the government to regulate it by its own regulation. It's not legal. That's why I don't think we're going to vote for this amendment, because that's why we accept the game that we're going to tie our hands to the future government. I object to anyone tying hands to the one who will replace him, to the one who will replace him, and to leave the right to the one who is now in power to already influence how someone else will work. That's why I'm saying, the government, even though it's a pronoun, but it seems that the government has lost some thread in proposing this law, is opposed to taking away from her the key lever of governance, which is her organization and its structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15574	The word is by MP Zoran Krasic and then by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15575	In addition to these unnecessary things that are burdened by this bill, the government, or the promoter, has been struggling to find a link between Articles 90 and 91, and you have clearly brought these issues closer to what is in Article 91. The constitution, which states that the organisation and way of working and deciding of the government are governed by law and rules of procedure. However, you have succumbed to this pressure or inadequacy in that matter and inserted these things, except for this General Secretariat, all of this was a surplus, because by the name of the General Secretariat is a certain organization, some kind of organisational form. I think the amendment promoter made a mistake, if he's already accepted this game to go this way to detail, then what you call an open government, there's more room behind article 31 than behind Article 33. I have to tell you, and by some logic, these working bodies of the government in this nomenclature here should also be in front of the General Secretariat of the Government, because these are bodies that help the government, it's something like our committees that exist in the National Assembly. They are institutionalally something that gives passable power to the Assembly, and when it comes to government, then evidence that a search has been carried out, that problems have been removed before the government came. This open government doesn't really mean anything. If the goal is to ensure communication between the government and citizens, then there is a regular path. The citizen comes forward with a request, asking for a reception with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, I assume they're receiving citizens for a conversation, to hear. And yet, there is another way to communicate with the government. They're gathering citizens in front of the government, the government didn't want to, it has to communicate. And it's the same form of open government, but open government as a can. This is unnecessary matter for this bill, it is unnecessary, because it is the constitutional obligation of the Government to provide the public with its work, and if the purpose of this amendment is the public of work, then at least three laws regulate that area, the Public Information Act, the Free Access Act, etc. And every government is imputed when they communicate with citizens, not only to get support, but to hear what's going on. To get the right information, not what comes from the government structure. This and the place where it's proposed not to fit, and even in the whole area and matter, it's not for this law, and that's why I think the proposer is going to realize that this amendment isn't the place here, so if he's willing to withdraw, it would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15576	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic and then a National MP, Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15577	We have already pointed out the obvious inconsistencies in writing this bill, and now we come up with a very interesting situation. We can accept it, I think it is true, although the submission of so many amendments would make no sense, but it is true that one part of the matter contained in this law did not have the need to contain, or for all members relating to these councils, secretariats, services, etc. There could have been an explanation that you rejected our amendment. The explanation says that the education and arrangement of the government service falls under the autonomous authority of the government, provided for by the Constitution, etc. So, directly based on the Constitution and without special authority in the law, the government is authorized to educate services for its needs. Now you're explaining the non-acceptance of amendments, which is some kind of standard that we've already adopted, and you and you, so since 2000, you haven't accepted what it is to be some kind of standard, but that's why you put all this out of the previous members. If something was supposed to have room here, and we respect this explanation of yours, it is true, but it does refer to previous members, not to a member who introduces something that exists. We have the Communications Bureau, and you have the Office for Media Cooperation. True, the press co-operation office costs four million more in the first year. I don't mean to bid, but it costs more than the Communications Bureau. So much for the consistency of what you were doing as an opposition when you criticized us, and when you became power, you created the same thing with a different name, but it doesn't matter now. So, in this way, as the National Assembly, we can commit the next government to adhere to certain standards, especially since I think our two governments have already begun to insulate these standards. But it's not right to refuse us an amendment with this argument, which previously refers to these members of the previous one relating to the advice, etc. I wanted to point out that certain inconsistencies. Maybe you got away with this. To tell you the truth, I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment, except we're the bearers. I don't think there's anything wrong with this amendment and you should have accepted it. I don't always understand the government's logic in taking views on the Democratic Party's amendments. I think there's still a dose of some acuity or some relationship that's not a quality relationship between the current government and a very constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15578	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic on the same amendment. You're not going to scare employees in my office off-line, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15579	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be adopted for at least two reasons. The first thing that generalizes and the second thing that prejudges. When it says, "open government," it means it refers to a new government and that this government will be shut down. I don't think the whole government will. I suppose Mr. Secretary won't be closed, but there are ministers who will certainly be shut down by the government. Therefore, there is no need to generalise. You don't even need to prejudge things and say, "Open government," so they'll be a closed government, at least part of the closed government. I'm afraid they're not afraid of this, so they'll resign immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you could see yourself, Mr. Minister, to the Prime Minister, he made a national office. It's that the people's office doesn't do anything, but it's a system of openness. I don't know if you'd have the kind of president as head of the People's Office, it's a little harder than that, but it would be. Co-operation, the openness of government work, I suppose, is meant by all acts, which, at the moment the government adopts them, become available to the public, so the laws, regulations and all other things, except for those things that represent the state secret. Of course, it remains closed to the public, or it is only open to the part of the public who has the authority to get to know it. That's why I don't think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15580	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Sarovic, regarding the amendment to Article 33, relating to the open government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15581	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as you have heard from previous representatives of the SRS, there are several reasons why the proposed amendment should not be adopted. I have to admit that the first time I read it seemed very strange, at least, and I was practically wondering if it was a joke in the middle and if someone could really suggest that in some law, and especially this serious and important law as it is, of course, the law on government stands the title "Open Government", and below that stands a member who regulates an open government. This looks much more like one of those casinos and gyms, as organized by Gašo Knezevic during the previous government. They've given such ridiculous names to some things. I don't know what open government means. The establishment of an open government day, as an obligation to communicate with citizens, would mean on the other hand that you have established 364 days of a closed government. This kind of vision and way of formulating is certainly inappropriate. It is much better to leave it at the will of every government to think for itself about how it will communicate with citizens. This is something you can't get anyone to do. Besides, I guess every government wants that mandate to be her first, not her last. It should leave every possibility that I estimate how I will fight for that second term. What confused me, that's an explanation -- believing in the European spirit of the promoter. What a ghost I really don't know. The question arises is whether you are the opposition or you are the government, because here you even say that part of that communication is clearly already being implemented by the government. Did you want to or did you need to compliment that government a little bit? Do you also announce here to this member of the law that you might join this government, because we all know very well that the old love of oblivion is gone. I think, however, when we remember everything that you did in the previous period, all those stories of transparency and that, the more transparent you did, the worse the situation in the country was, this day of open government and direct communication with citizens should be left for another time. What we've all been expecting, I think it took a little bit of an explanation to present to us some concrete activities and ways to achieve this day of open government. What would you do on that day with the citizens? Which processes would be, how long, who could come. If you only have one day - the day of open doors, or open governments, and there are about eight million citizens of this country - in what way would you and what modals be to make this day happen? Would all interested people be able to push into the government building that day, walk around, do whatever they want, try the activities that the ministers normally do, let the day drive, possibly, to the minister's car, so it would be a day not only of open government, but of open government cars. What kind of activity would that be? I think we would think a little bit better, so we would eventually support this amendment. For now, unless the motionor is able to explain a little bit closer what these activities would be, the SRS will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15582	Is anyone else answering for an open government? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Branislav Blazic has tabled an amendment to Article 36, asking for one part to be changed. I'll read the article of the law and the amendment, so you have full insight. The member of the law reads: "The government has submitted a report to the National Assembly on its work for the past year in submitting a proposal for the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget." National MP Dr Branislav Blazic asks that the words "in submission" be replaced by the words "at the latest 60 days before submission". Then article 36 would read as follows: "The government is reporting to the National Assembly on its work for the past year no later than 60 days before submitting the proposal for the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget." In this part alone, he's asking for a change, so that's the only part I'm going to explain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it takes at least 45 days for MPs to look at all finesse, all items, all accounts of how the budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent for the previous year, to find ways to steal, because believe me, knowing some MPs, I'm sure they're so capable of at least covering up. There are ministers who had no intention of hiding their thieving. One of the Ministers who deals with the tenders is already called the Minister - the Master of 10%, but it doesn't matter here. He will certainly be revealed by the MPs, at least by the MPs of the SRS, by all his marifetteluks the moment the budget arrives. But there are experts, too, because the government has that expert section that it kept from the previous government, who will know how to hide, at least so much that it takes us at least a month to find out where they are and how they listed state money. I believe that MPs must be given time of 60 days to analyse the costs, to analyse the budget for the previous year, and that when considering the budget, when considering the report, they clearly say "pop, Bobba", and that minister and some other ministers -- thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15584	The word is from Ambassador Prvoslav Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Branislav Blazic has tabled an amendment to Article 36. A proposal for a government law, which requires that the first word "in submission" be replaced by the words "at the latest 60 days before submission". Why did he propose this? For the purpose of considering the final account, the control of the material and financial operations of the Government and the authorities of the state administration shall be carried out through public revenue. The report on the work should enable the National Assembly to exercise functional control of the work and policymaking of the Government. It is therefore necessary to separate the work report from the final account and to clear the question before the final account is debated whether the government has achieved its function, without simultaneous and direct consideration of the funds. It is quite appropriate to have a clear position of the National Assembly on the work of the Government before the final account is discussed, in the part of the functions of constitutionality and legality, as well as the conduct of policies and results of that policy. A poor assessment of the government's work does not have to cause failure to adopt the final account. It is clear from all of this that this proposal is far better as a solution to Article 36's position than it is with a proposal submitted by the Government. It is obvious that the government is in no way responsible for publicly acknowledging that the amendments of the SRS MPs are far better and more acceptable for Serbian citizens, both in this case when it comes to the draft law on government and in the case of some amendments to other draft laws. Which is why you are ashamed to accept the excellent amendments of the SRS MPs, embellish, or frame and create a more complete government law. That's why I call on the MPs of the assembly majority to correct the government in this and help her overcome her frustration.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15586	The word has an MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15587	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment has not been submitted by the DS. However, I must say, it is a good amendment. I don't understand why in your explanation you've tied up the report on the work with the final account. The work report and the final bill are different things. Both are some kind of report, but they're completely materially different. The report on work includes a report by the government of the Republic of Serbia on how it implemented politics, i.e. laws, regulations, other acts and implemented state policy. It is a work report and it should be discussed specifically in the National Assembly, it should be discussed by MPs separate from the final account. The final account is a different document and is observed in a different way. The final account is completely, in a material sense, a different document than the government's work report and I think you should accept this amendment. In any case, in the voting day, we will vote for this amendment, although it is not our amendment, because we think it is good. However, the amendment concerns part of the law that speaks about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have already pointed out that this relationship, unfortunately, in Serbia since the 1990s, when we declared the division of power, is not a power-sharing relationship, is not a relationship that guarantees the independence of one authority from another. This relationship, first of all, is characterized by the power of the executive authority over the legislative one and we've had it through all these years. Unfortunately, since the government's current DSS, executive power has achieved significant domination over other branches of government, both legislative and judicial power. That is why I think the National Assembly, in its own defence against this political aggression of the executive authority over it, would have to adopt first and foremost those amendments of the Democratic Party, which are in favour of the sovereignty of the legislative authority, and then this amendment, which has not been submitted by the Democratic Party, which is also very good and which is helping in the adequate control of the executive authority by the legislative one. The division of power has been spoken of for hundreds of years and it is saddened that in 2005, instead of advance, we go backwards, giving power to one branch of government over another branch of government. It is bad when it is done consciously and it is bad when the representatives of the legislative authority themselves are knowingly destroying the parliament they are sitting in, in which they should act primarily from the aspect of the state's interest. The supreme state interest is insistence on the established principles of democratic parliamentary states, and one of these principles is the division of power. So I suggest you accept this amendment as well as the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15588	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I think the minister will probably finally clarify, if this stays this way in the law, who's going to file a report for 2001, 2002 and 2003, since we haven't adopted the final bill yet? Whether the previous government should submit a report, because it is impossible then to adopt a final bill for 2001, 2002 and 2003 if there are no reports from the government. This government should probably invite them to write a report. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15589	Just to remind you that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly brings forward a plan of development, a spatial plan, a budget and a final account, but also carries out control over the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I believe that here you have unnecessarily regulated the government and the National Assembly's relationship with this law, because it is a matter that must be regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Just to remind you, if you have a Rules of Procedure, there is a special chapter -- the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, etc. As long as you're on your way to this, I must tell you that under the Rules of Procedure, we have bad provisions that essentially hinder the National Assembly to fulfil its constitutional duty, to control the work of the Government. The government's work control is carried out through parliamentary issues, through impelation, through an institute called submitting work reports. If the work report is put into some relationship with the numbers, and the figures are the final account, then we're limited to government control. We are talking about the first position of this member, not the second, which says that at the request of the National Assembly, the Government and each member of it are obliged to file a report on their work. The first attitude refers to something that is automation, which guarantees the National Assembly that every year a minimum will once a year have a text report on the government's work, which will likely contain all data on ministries and on every member of the government, what he did. Don't worry. It is possible that the government's report is negatively assessed here, and that it has absolutely no impact on the final account for that same year, which is covered by the work report, because it is possible that the material and financial operations contained in the final account are correct, all of which are made in accordance with the rules on the budget system, but we have a situation that some ministers have failed to fulfil their duties, that the ministries have worked poorly, that they have not been organised properly, and that there have been an affair that deserves special attention. You've tied up the work report to the final account and thus tied up the fate of the work report because it creates presumption. If the Assembly votes the final bill then the report is accepted and everything is most beautiful there, everything is well done. It's a bad situation. I must remind you that in October, November 2003, we had a situation to discuss the government's motion to resolve, to vote non-trust with the government, and then each of the ministers took the opportunity to submit their work report. They had the right to do so, no such problem, but the opposition gained yet another experience, so as a result of that experience and this amendment to keep that texting part of the government's work contained in the report, where it will describe what the government was doing. The report should stand for what has been seen as a negative phenomenon, as the government suggests in future work to change the rules, laws, regulations, etc. You saw the government's work report as negative. If that part of the agenda comes, it's a disaster for the government. That's not true. You had the situation in 1994, when this institution was first installed to report on the government's work, at the time of that Dragoslav Avramovic, the government took advantage of this situation, so on the basis of a discussion on the government's work for two months, it made its promotion in this building. Apparently, this government is experiencing a provision on the obligation to file a report on work as something negative, as it allegedly goes to a deleted opposition space, which will defuse them for all irregularities. That's what the government has to endure. It's better to endure on the agenda -- a report on the government, than on any financial point, that we get space to criticise the minister whose resolution we've asked for, and you haven't allowed your majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15590	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15591	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, with the announcement that we will vote in the voting day for the adoption of this amendment, just one brief note. As illogical as it may seem, at 2.25 a.m., we will have to think about how this provision will be changed, if the Minister accepts the amendment at this session, or if we adopt the amendment in the day of voting, very soon we will have to amend this member of the law in relation to the main audit court or to the main audit and state audit office, which this assembly will have to pass through the law of the auditor. The Assembly in the previous assembly and the Assembly in this assembly continued to work on the law on the State Audit Office and it will simply be a place where it will be very precise and reliable, for all those who want to know how budget money is spent, very accurately measured. It would be a good idea in this period when we try to pass laws, and the government when it proposes laws, when we propose amendments, to look at these laws that we will adopt six months or a year in advance, when some changes in the laws will be imminent. This is the way to look at the laws we're going to talk about the competition law, which is on the agenda after the final debate of the state administration law, because here's the first chance we're really going to make a law on the protection of competition in the first step that's clearly not working and it's missed. We expect this government law again immediately after the National Assembly, with the will of the MPs who will be the legislators of the law on the State Audit Office, asks for amendments and additions to this law. It would be good for other members of the law to be read again, as well as amendments by the minister, and to accept everything that would really improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15592	I thank Mrs. Comic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15593	Mr. Angelkovic, there's a lot going on in the O.R., and you're not in a position to follow and hear it, but the head of a parliamentary group is more uncontrollably addressing the MPs, including my little ones on the way to the pay phone. I'm kind of convinced, Mr. Minister, that you will accept this amendment after I've been exposed. It is 2.30 hours, but I think you just need to hear a few more arguments and you will see that the amendment that Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the bill and to Article 36 is quite reasonable, and that it removes any suspicion and all that we have, as a negative experience, and especially in the rule of our predecessors. And the right to tell you, last year, we weren't in a situation where Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet filed a comprehensive report at the end of the year, but when we convened the last session in a regular session and because of the budget system law, that way when the 2005 budget was passed, it happened at 4.50 hours. We voted last year's budget at 4.50 hours. Why am I telling you this now? Just to remind you of what is the way and method of work, and we Serbian radicals don't mind it, we promised you that we who should and must be right out of here tomorrow at 1200 hours at a session of the Defence and Security Committee, and we will return to the continuation of the session, but it's just not right. Mr. Minister, perhaps you have not been informed by the MPs and those who belong to your coalition, I will tell you, in addition to being a separate report on the work of the government and the ministries from the final budget account, what happened last year. This year, the Minister of Trade and Tourism came to us in March with a report of over 100 pages on the ministry's work. Just one ministry. They tried to justify it by not having a quorum and not having a majority on that committee. It was simply that the resolution board on trade and tourism did not accept Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic's report. It can happen, and we talked about it, and Mr Krasic also spoke about it, it should be two completely unrelated things, separate, that the National Assembly does not accept the government's report, as it did on this committee, and that the final budget account is fine. We dispute the way budget items are constructed, income and expenditure sides, because we, Serbian radicals, have had an extremely large problem with the law on the budgetary system, which came into force during the Dossov government and Djelic's ministry. It's not just here, it's a law by which the budgets of local self-government units are designed. We believe that through the final account of the budget, because of such a law on the budgetary system, there is a possibility and that Djelic probably also had in mind, that many things are blasphemed, and unintended spending of funds, various specialised contracts. And what was provided for by the Budgetary System Act, we could not accept it, because it is not according to us, Serbian radicals, as these predecessors, and some of your people would say, transparently. It would take us a long time, and every assembly, every assembly, will only need to discuss the final account of the budget. How much, counterpart Arsic, 440 almost billion dinars is the budget for this current year 2005. Now imagine the situation that one day, if a member of the law remains like this, we have to discuss the spending of 440 billion dinars, in a way that these revenues and expenditures are consistent with this government, which we disagree with. Because it turns out now, in all these recent and unfavorable events, that much more resources were needed to help people who suffered in elementary disasters, and above all our troubled people in Kosovo and Metohija, so we disagree with the spending of money by the Coordination Centre, so we disagree with many of the projects planned for so-called. NGOs. You will put us in a position, if this amendment is not accepted, and somehow I am convinced that you will still accept it, that we must discuss all this, both the work of the Government and the political decisions that are not related to material finance business, that we are discussing in the same day, or at the same time. Here, Mr. Angelkovic, I'm done. It would be good for you to see this as really one rational, logical and over-restrictive solution, because you will allow us, or future assembly and MPs, to do their job much better and better quality, and that this government, whatever it is, will come out here with a report that will be accepted or not, either separately with the final bill proposal for the year behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15594	I thank Miss Jovanovic. Someone in the O.R. said it was time, and I said the time was long gone. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here again is the proposal that the report on work and the final budget account be placed in one item of the agenda. Just to remind the MPs that the debate on one item of the agenda, unless the Assembly decides otherwise, lasts five hours. We'll have two agenda points connected in one with one debate of five hours. When a budget is passed, or budget law, which is the most important law passed by one assembly, MPs have the right to influence that budget through the submission of amendments and to convince the government of the Republic of Serbia in particular that money needs to be spent in some future period. However, the proposal for a final account, Mr. Minister, as you wrote in the explanation in which you reject this amendment, does not exist. The final bill is adopted or not adopted, that's not a proposal. The money was spent, as you spent it, whether you spent it with the Budget Law or not, it could be the subject of debate. Perhaps it would be even better to combine the final account with the budget debate for next year, and then we will have full insight into how you spent money over the last year and how you will spend it next year. If there is a proposal for the government of the Republic of Serbia's work to be made public, then why did you not foresee in this bill what would be the deadline for the government of the Republic of Serbia to submit a report on its work separately from the report on the final budget bill for the past year? Here, now it's May and we still don't know how this government is that budget that was made in March, and later its rebalancing in June or July, that is. how that money was spent. And you're asking us to bring together a debate about the government's work report and the final bill for a year. A little strange for the party you represent, Mr. Minister, who is constantly in favour, at least publicly, for the government to be under the attention of parliament and the public, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I see the final bill for 2004, then I might believe you, and until then, all this stuff you write under these laws and what you're talking about on TV is one simple, colorful lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15596	Before that, we need to see the final account for 2001, 2002, 2003. Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word for Nemanja Sarovic. The minister gives you the first right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am deeply interested in what the minister will have to say, given the fact that it was established here as a practice for the first minister to listen to the five-six, and as the debate moves away, it seems he's tired and needs 10-12 speakers, and then he accepts the amendment. Perhaps it would be better, Mr. Minister, if you had read these amendments before you came, and at first you would have accepted the amendment and made the work of this assembly more effective, and I believe that this is the goal of all of us. The amendment to the 36th draft law, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The amendment asked for a discussion on the final account and a report on the government's work for the previous year to be split. The explanation given by the Government for not accepting this amendment does not mean in itself anything and it is said - we do not give it because it is so. No particular reason for this, and certainly no valid reason has been given. In the background of what the Government does not want to accept this amendment is the fact that in its work, since this parliamentary majority has been elected, ever since it was established, you have been constantly trying to limit the work of MPs and the possibility of debate, the possibility of giving a certain opinion and an explanation of that opinion, and in that part you are constantly continuing and what the previous parliamentary majority did. In developed European parliamentary democracies, it is common for a government that works well alone to submit a proposal to the assembly to discuss its work and to vote in confidence. Not one government does it because it thinks its work report will not be adopted, but the governments that are doing well, and this government certainly is not, just to show the citizens what they have done, and to achieve an even greater degree of popularity in the people, they insist on the debate. It is not a rare case that a good government is looking for a debate on its work immediately ahead of the early parliamentary elections, just to win another term. Since this government is also hiding from the debate on its work, and we are witnessing that all possible constitutional deadlines have been violated, the business deadlines for putting on the agenda a motion to vote for no confidence in the Government, but you can't get away from it and you'd be much better off breaking this session right away and putting on the agenda a debate on mistrust with the government. If you accept the SRS amendment, one better and more quality way will be able to discuss first what and how the Government has done, and first to see what the effects of the government's work are, politically and all others, and then, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to approach, after a certain time distance, and to discuss the final account, and to see how the material-financial government was doing, how the state authorities were doing business, and then to adopt or not adopt the final account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15598	There's a word for Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15599	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, regardless of the fact that I haven't had the opportunity to hear arguments about this amendment by the original promoter, would probably be much more summary, this number of speakers has made quite a strong argument in favour of the government's determination to ensure the public's work and respect for this assembly. In addition, it has a special importance to report on work, an institute which has not been used in the way it was to be used in the previous years and as provided for by the Constitution. Therefore, in order for the government to facilitate the debate on its work, it is perfectly acceptable for your amendment to submit a work report no later than 60 days before the final account. I thank you and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15600	I thank the minister. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Omerovic, please hold for a moment, since Mr. Lonchar has answered for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15601	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the debate in principle, which took place two days ago, one did not have a number of MPs, primarily from the opposition's ranks, touched these provisions on government. This provision is not contrary to the principle of the government's public work and the government has advocated it in all its activities. This provision represents only the realisation of the consistent principle of division of power. But this government stands for the principle of public work. The government proposed a law on the availability of public information and made that law available to every citizen. There is no difference, that because of a certain formulation of the law, it is made possible for someone to have what every citizen has to do with the MP in the Serbian Parliament. For that reason, I accept this amendment. I would take this opportunity, relating to the fact that I have accepted tonight the amendments of MP Gordana Komic as a member of 18 and 19, and she then accepted here, orally at the pay phone, that in Article 22, due to the legal-technical order by the Legislative Committee, she would be left out of her amendment proposal to point 3. for further legal-technical redistribution. I can accept the other part of the amendment by Parliament of the People's Parliament Gordana Komic to delete Article 4 which reads: "From submitting the proposal to voting on non-trust or resolution, it cannot go less than three or 15 days." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15602	I thank Minister Lonchar. This amendment has been accepted. Mr. Omerovic, please, it's no problem, but the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15603	I thank Mr. Minister, and I am pleased that Mr. Minister has accepted the amendment submitted by my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I. It's obvious that Mr. Minister took advantage of the opportunity when ratings are very high, because it's already about three hours to accept the amendment. But it's better than never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15604	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw attention to the title of this article, which reads - the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government, the Emergency and the War. Here, look how it's written. The relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government in the first place, and below, a capital letter - Emergency and War. This, Mr. Minister, those who wrote this to you consider the President of the Republic a state of emergency, and they consider the government a state of war, as it is written. I'd like to see it straightened up in some way. The essence of my amendment is that a member should read as follows: "The government proposes to the President of the Republic the introduction of an emergency on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "According to Article 83, point 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has clearly defined jurisdiction and conduct in emergency situations. What I wanted to point out is that I'm not satisfied with the argument given by the government. The government says at the end of the argument -- "but it is understood that this would be possible only for part of the territory. "If you have accepted Mrs. Verice Radete's amendment to Article 5, we must accept this amendment for the same reasons. There's no reason why this isn't standing right here. So, for precision and for the sake of removing any doubt behind what's left out, and we know that the Constitution is a general act, and that the constitution is a law, there's no reason why this isn't standing. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15606	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and then by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if one of the amendments so far had to be adopted by the Minister, then it should have adopted this amendment. This would avoid the possibility of repeating it in 2003, when due to interests, primarily to the interests of a particular group that had the happiness, and also to Serbia having had that accident, that it would ride on its back, introduce a state of emergency on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and thanks to this state of emergency somewhere around 12,000 people are absolutely illegally arrested, harassed, disabled, legal remedies to people today of 12,000, I think 40 indictments have been filed and that by now some five or six processes have been completed. Tomorrow, that is, at 12:00 p.m. today, we have a Security Committee, where we will also discuss the evil that the famous "Sabbe" has brought to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, by adopting this amendment, not only will you honor the Constitution, but you will make it impossible for some of the future, perhaps just from your government, to abuse the position they are in and harm the citizens of Serbia and Serbia as a whole, and that is why I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15608	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15609	Because of the situation that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 1990, and in 1992 the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, however, you broke it up later, there is a certain uncertainty in our constitutional acts regarding the declaration of war, the state of immediate war danger and the state of emergency. But this constitution binds us. Let's just remind ourselves of Article 89 of the Constitution concerning the President of the Republic. In Article 83, point 8, it is prescribed that the Government's proposal, which concerns the responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Serbia, when security of the Republic of Serbia, freedom and the rights of man and citizen or the work of state authorities are compromised, declares the state of emergency and adopts acts to take measures that require such circumstances, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The state of emergency in our constitutional system is related to some more words "in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia" and that makes unity. You see, although the constitutional norm is quite clear, in 2003 we had a situation that if there was a need to introduce an emergency, it could have been on the part of the territory covering the government of the Republic of Serbia, possibly one city municipality or city, and we had the fact that on the basis of this clear constitutional norm an emergency was introduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and later it was not a reason for an emergency event, but a fight against organised crime. Since we are stronger by one experience and we know when to write what it can mean and how someone can interpret it, I think it's no problem for the government to accept this amendment, because it doesn't disturb what you wrote, but it just explains, precises and gives us some certainty that someone won't abuse this provision. So, the government is proposing to the President of the Republic the introduction of a state of emergency on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the acts taking steps in an emergency. In this way, we did not devalue the constitutional norm, although I must tell you, I believe that this chapter is also completely unnecessary, because relations between the government and the President of the Republic, as well as relations between the government and the National Assembly are governed by the Constitution. When you do a new constitution, if there is a need for precision, let it be specified in constitutional norms, and let's not prescribe the provisions of the constitution on a specific issue. But I can see that that's the way it became, when a member fails, let's rewrite a member of the constitution. As this debate is coming to an end, I'd like to point out one more situation. When the Constitution requires that one area be regulated by law, and the Constitution is about the same way, there are two principles. One principle is not to touch the constitutional norm, not to prescribe it in law, but to find a spirit based on it and to regulate the way in which individual freedoms, rights and duties of man and citizen are achieved. There is another system, where the text of the constitutional norm is used, but without prescribing, is already being inserted by some members and thus makes a complete general legal act, which aims to regulate an entire area and then that segmentary repetition of the constitutional norm in some parts does not devalue the Constitution. However, you resorted to a strange mix, where half of the provisions can be said to offend the Constitution, and half of the provisions can be said not to understand the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15610	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary club, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you can be serious at three o'clock in the morning, you can have whoever slept until half past three and got up, but whoever's been working since this morning since 10.00 this evening can't be serious. The bill promoter seemed to have worked like that in three nights. This member proves it. Article 40 has turned clear constitutional provisions into unclear legal provisions. What happens now? He touched some relations between the president and the government regulated by the constitution, and some did not. For example, in Article 83, you have point 6 which says, "The President of the Republic, when the National Assembly is unable to meet, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, determines the existence of a direct war threat or declares a war situation". Why didn't you bring it into the law? Why did you not introduce the law in the relations between the Prime Minister and the Republic, that the Prime Minister delivered an opinion to the President of the Republic on the existence of a direct threat to war or on the need to declare war. I know that's not necessary, but I'm asking you, why did you prescribe the norms from Article 83 of Sections 7 and 8? You prescribed the norms from point 7. Article 40(1) "The Government proposes to the President of the Republic the introduction of emergency and emergency measures". It says here "on a proposal from the government, when the security of the Republic of Serbia, the freedom and rights of man and citizen or the work of state authorities, (president) declares a state of emergency and adopts acts to take measures that such circumstances require, in accordance with the Constitution and the law". In point 2, you say, "The government may propose to the President of the Republic to bring acts into question during the wartime on matters of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly." You would think that you had invented something, but in the Constitution, point 7, it says, "The President of the Republic, either on his own initiative or on a proposal from the Government, during the state of war or in direct war danger, brings acts on matters from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly," by saying that he is still obliged to submit to the National Assembly for verification the acts he has brought, and you have not stated in the law. Why do you need the provisions of Articles 1 and 2? What they regulate when the Constitution has fully regulated it, that is, if we are to prescribe the Constitution, why didn't you take point 6 of it, which speaks of the right of the Prime Minister to demand something from the President of the Republic. You've fallen into a trap again when you explain why you don't accept the amendment? You say for one part of the amendment that it's regulated by the Constitution, and your entire member is governed by the Constitution. Now the National Assembly should say - we do not accept this member because it is regulated by the Constitution. Mr. Minister, I'm convinced you've seen this bill in the last day or two. I'm sure this didn't come out of your desk.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15612	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15613	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at three o'clock a.m., we're talking about one of the most serious things that can happen to one state. It's about introducing a state of emergency. With all these really inexplicable provisions, embedded in the position of the 1st and 2nd proposed member, which Mr. Milan Stevovic asks to change, and what our head of the parliamentary group has told you, and these are the transferable provisions of the Constitution, although clumsyly and here in this form - I must, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen and Mr. Minister, remind you of something that is not funny at all, and this deputy minister of yours does not stop grinning back an hour. I must remind you that in seven hours of this time, a session of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled. My fellow Members, members and president of the Committee, Mr Milorad Mircic, as well as we who are members of that committee, and I believe with the presence of the ministers and people from the MUP, will adopt a report on the implemented action "Sabbe" in 2003, which came just during the introduction of the state of emergency. No one has mentioned anything so far that I regret to say and what we all know, and that is that, unfortunately, in one part of our territory, we already have a sort of emergency. Namely, our southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija has been occupied since 1999, contrary to the will of the SRS and with the acceptance of then of all political actors in the National Assembly to do so. That fact itself is a difficult circumstance for each of us when it comes to one of these situations. When it comes to introducing a state of emergency, Mr. Minister, I know that at that time as a scientific worker you were hired at the university, or at the university where you teach, but your political associates and members of your political party felt some of them on their skin, which means when one such constitutional provision is misused. In fact, that day, although it was done contrary to the Constitution, because the constitution is just saying that only in part of the territory can that happen, Natasa Micic, who was then acting as president of the Republic, introduced a state of emergency and then really started to suffer. So, it happened that nearly 12,000 people were being discriminated against in the worst possible way. And not only that, but abuses have been committed by judicial officials, we'll talk about it in detail tomorrow. You see, Mr. Minister, this article says, "the government's reasoned proposal." I will be most interested in tomorrow, and I believe all fellow Members of the Defence and Security Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15614	Mr. Radosavljevic, you want to come by later and explain to us what's been so funny for half an hour or buy one of the most laughers. I don't know how else to determine that. I apologize, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15615	So, most of all tomorrow, we're going to be interested in how the government's session was going, who suggested it, and where is the stenogram from that session. We MPs and you who were in the 2003 election campaign, and the political parties who had only later entered parliament, in a new assembly established in 2004, were also thunderous in requests to obtain that information. And you know, God forbid that this possibility or the situation ever happens again, how dangerous that thing in itself is, and that initial chapel for something much worse that can happen to one people and individuals, in this case it's 12,000 people. With all these explanations and the way this constitutional provision was transposed into the law, if what happened in 2003 hadn't happened, I wouldn't have the need, or any of the MPs of the SRS, to further explain it, but major abuses have been committed. I remember, and I will also remind Mr. Jocic tomorrow, the interior minister, who was then our colleague, one of those days when, against the constitution, Natasa Micic introduced a state of emergency in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, when Mr. Jocic and Mr. Mamul went in search of two of his colleagues, i.e. co-workers, or as they already treated them, during the state of emergency. And they know, and he now, as Minister of the Interior, that this is the worst thing that has happened in our people's recent history and in general in this practice of the government's relationship to the people and its citizens. In the worst possible way, rights, freedoms of man and citizen have been violated, and there are 12,000 of them. I believe that after a statement issued and the address of the president and of us members of the Committee and members of the MUP, not tomorrow but today, much will be clearer. If tomorrow, after all this time, we don't get answers to all these questions, then it's really devastating to talk about this at any time and in any way. But I believe that we will get the strength and that we will get the whole Serbian public to know all that individuals have done by breaking the Constitution and the law of this country and in the worst possible way by treating almost 12,000 citizens of Serbia already.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15616	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milan Stevovic has tabled an amendment to Article 40(1). A bill on government, which the government has submitted as a legal project to the National Assembly. And this article shows the nature of the government law, which the National Assembly has held during these days of debate, which is still going on and on until every amendment is clear enough, although never during these years and a half, regardless of the many inaccurate legal projects you have submitted, none has been so misconceived, and this is a very important area, and this is the government law, where you have injured the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in many members, the highest legislative act. A colleague, Milan Stevovic, suggested that the words "in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia" be added to bet 1. Article 40 states that the government is proposing to the President of the Republic the introduction of emergency and emergency measures. So, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 83, point 8, clearly defines this particular substance, which is already included in Article 40. The bill, I see no reason why you do not accept this amendment to the SRS, because it has a full legal basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative act. I hope that you will accept this amendment by the MPs of the SRS, Mr Milan Stevovic, because this amendment has a goal, as well as all of our amendments to the National Assembly, that this legislative proposal submitted by the Government to the National Assembly is more precise and clear, because matter is very important. In the end, it should be precise and clear because it is a government institution, it is a law that has one great importance, it is an executive authority, it is about the separation of executive and legislative authority. The SRS has tried one of these bad legal projects with amendments that we have submitted and defended, and we have convinced you during these few days and during this night, that this legal project will be repaired, that it will be more precise and clearer. So I expect you to accept the SRS amendment, because it has a clear basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the highest legislative act of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15618	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15619	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very least, it is surprising that the proposing's position not to accept this amendment, because most citizens of the Republic of Serbia still have that feeling from the last state of emergency, which was seduced by the assassination of the then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Just because some things are not fixed, the state of emergency has been introduced across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and referred to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not to mention, the Security Committee will eventually have to report to this National Assembly and citizens of Serbia, what was done during the emergency. Namely, this amendment stipulates that the government of the Republic of Serbia can propose to the president of the Republic of Serbia the introduction of a state of emergency, but in part of the territory, because if security of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is compromised, then no state of emergency is introduced, then with full law you can suggest a war situation. If it's part of the territory, you can use that emergency. At the very least, it's surprising, because of this difficult experience during the Sabre, that it's meant to be on the part of the territory. Nothing is understood. Only what is written in the law is understood and this must be adhered to by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15620	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, could someone put a card in there? You got the word, I saw you, but now I don't notice you on the computer. I can see you physically, but I don't notice that you're here, so I'd like you to be there. I can see it, but I can't feel it. I'm asking the service to pick up all the cards in the O.R. where there are no MPs. I'd like to ask Mr. Sarovic to insert his card. The service will wake up if he sleeps, but let him finish his job. We need to be principled on both sides. We can't insist on one thing and not the other. We have to respect the rules of procedure consistently, not in pieces. Mr. Sarovic, please, you have your word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15621	I thank Mr Angelkovic, but I do know that you have great respect for the Rules of Procedure and that your democratic capacity is well known, but it is clearly in the second row that three cards have been inserted, and that only two MPs are sitting, so it might still be a good idea to wake up the service anyway, so that they first determine whether all MPs have fulfilled their obligation under the Rules of Procedure or whether they have brought their cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15622	Mr. Sarovic, as you heard, I publicly invited the service to pick up the cards, and I asked you to insert the card. You put in and now you're talking about the amendment. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have heard, on Article 40(1). The amendment's proposal for a government law was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic, and this amendment required the precision of Article 40, although the position of the SRS parliamentary group is that this whole member of the law is completely unnecessary. If that member is to stand in the law and if you already want something fully regulated by the Constitution to repeat and in this law, perhaps in order to strengthen in some way the importance and underline the importance of this law, perhaps having in mind and introducing the state of emergency that we had during the previous government, when the emergency situation was introduced not in part of the territory, as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, which in a brutal way was a violation of the Constitution and was the prelude to mass violations of human rights throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You remember for sure that during the "Sabbe" action, more than 12,000 people were arrested, that they were suspended from basic human and civil rights, and we are also all witnessing the fact that the political Constitutional Court, headed by Slobodan Vučetic, did not respond to the SRS's initiative to assess the constitutionality of the introduction of an emergency. I think that the answer to that initiative by the SRS, the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia has not been received until today, and for these very reasons, we think it is necessary that, if constitutional provisions are already transposed into this law, they should be transposed in their original form. The explanation that this is already defined by the Constitution is totally unsettling and then the question is why something that is already laid down by the Constitution to enter into the law. A particularly interesting argument is that the territory to which the Government's proposal would apply is not the subject of a member, but is understood. For anyone who has graduated from law school, and especially for Minister Loncar, who is a professor at law school, certainly there is nothing right to be understood, especially in this way. And I don't know if the minister is waiting again for ten or twelve speakers to explain why this amendment should be accepted and then accepted. I think it'd certainly be better if the minister did it right away. What would be good, because the debate on this law is coming to an end, I believe, for more than two to three hours, and maybe it's time for the minister to tell us who wrote this law. We heard yesterday that it wasn't written by the minister, it wasn't written by Balinovac, and we know that he mostly wrote the laws that came to our agenda, and I think it would be good to hear who wrote this law. What is clear is that you have been caught by the right mania, including not only the introduction of foreign words and expressions into laws, but also the writing of titles above each member. Why is it necessary for each member to have an inscription? These titles are growing longer and longer than the draft law to the draft law that comes to our agenda, and there is simply not one single member who has no title anymore. Is this some résumé practical of this law? It used to be a practice, and it's certainly the right practice, that only the more important parts of the law are separated by putting a title for a particular area. You're changing this for an unknown reason, but I really hope the minister takes this remark into account, and I hope he answers what I asked him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15624	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15625	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of emergency is one of the most serious issues for every country. Because of the poor experience in some of the near and distant periods of our past, certainly your efforts in these late hours on the subject of amendments concerning the issue of introducing an emergency, or proposing by the Government, deserve special gratitude. I personally believe that this formulation, as proposed in the bill, rests on a questionable fact that the Constitution is more than clear and does not allow the introduction of an emergency on the whole territory. If someone may not understand the Constitution, it exists from our very close past and judgment of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, there are 12,000 people and the very bad experience they have had. Therefore, if we all hold, and I believe that all of you MPs and we who participate in political life, we hold to the protection of human rights and freedoms, then if we have nothing else to do with creating legal norms of any law, including this law on government, we allow such a situation never to occur again to anyone by introducing an emergency or any other state to Serbian citizens endangering their human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Therefore, given the fact that this is only a matter of technical determination of the legal provision already in that form in the act of a more legal force, in the Constitution, it is entirely acceptable for me as a representative of the Government, and I thank you once again for the reasoned debate. On behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15626	I thank Minister Lonchar. I hope no one's answering for article 40 anymore. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added to part four. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It is understood that the 40th member became an integral part of the bill, after the minister accepted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have all concluded that we are working intensively on the quality of the work of this very assembly, I would pray before I present the amendment, that on the basis of Article 82, we determine the quorum, because it is obvious, looking at the monitor, that the situation disagrees with what we see in the hall. Once we've established the quorum, I'll be happy to continue the exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15628	Excuse me, electronic system or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15629	This is called technique "extend time for MPs to arrive on time." "From 11.30 p.m., MPs of the Democratic Party have each time announced to the president of the G17 parliamentary group and to the president of the DSS Group, go and make a quorum and bring your MPs, we do not want to look for quorum for a pay phone. This time we're looking for a quorum per article 82. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the monitor, to the impression of the MPs who comment on you, disagrees with the situation in the Assembly. Is that clear now, Mr. Angelkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15630	So you're looking for an electronic system? Okay. Thank you. Please determine the quorum. Well, as we've determined that there's a quorum, and I've really asked whether by electronic system or counting, since we could also count, it's not disputed, the service works, we can count ourselves. Are you answering your question about the amendment now? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Komic appears on the occasion of the amendment to Article 42.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15631	So, at 3:30 in the morning, you have a situation where your colleagues and friends from other parliamentary groups ask you if I can go out for a drink or have coffee. It can't, it's gonna work. The MPs ask what happened, I only assured you of the atmosphere at 3.30 p.m. and the contacts between MPs from different parliamentary groups. The amendment refers to Part IV and Title – Government Acts. We had a dilemma about whether to intervene on the expression of government acts, since there could be debates about whether what it says in Article 42 until the end, practically to Article 49, are really government acts. We have decided to remain an expression of government acts, only to add a new member of 42a, which reads – Acts of Government are: draft laws, memorandum of budget, declaration, resolution, development strategy, recommendations, regulation, decisions, resolutions, conclusions and rules of procedure. The reason why we propose an amendment like this in our opinion is that it is said in one provision of the bill, if it is necessary to list the government act at all, it remains for a special debate. If we are to walk consistently by what we would like to have as our bill, then many members should be deleted. It is clear to you now that it was not the intention, that it was the intention to improve the text of the law as much as we could. So, according to the proposaler's idea, we listed all the acts brought by the Government. In relation to the solution proposed in the draft law, this amendment introduces resolutions and recommendations which, as acts, are not decisive, simple illustrations for the sake of parallel solutions, therefore, are adopted by the European Union authorities and organisations. There is absolutely no constitutional interference with the government's passing those acts. We believe that they need to be established by this law, thus equating the government's work with European standards. Why do we add exactly the resolution and the recommendation? Because such species, let me say, there are no acts in the bill, and there are enough good reasons to be brought into the future. What else should change here is the development strategy. That is not what we have proposed in our amendment, we simply had no better idea than to leave development strategies, because in the time ahead, the Government should propose to the Assembly or decide independently to adopt strategies. We have one example, and this is a strategy in energy, which has already been in this congregation. We need a national water strategy. We need a national strategy for sustainable development. A national development plan is needed. We're one of three countries, and that's what I'd like the legislator to really understand when we say the development strategy, which has no national development plan. The national development plan is a government plan for a certain period, so that the jobs, projections and action plan for each year, for the three-month period, are elaborated. It represents essentially, as much as I didn't like that term, a government business plan. It is necessary, if you want to really succeed than other Western Balkan countries, which are Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, because it is the Western Balkans and that is our group, if you want to make faster progress than you want to make progress. The national development plan is a huge document and perhaps we should have thought about it, that it stands specifically in this amendment, but it is simply one time. That was the only reason you're bringing it in now, and then when you've done that ten-year process, then you'll have another form of document called your national development plan in 2005. How important it is to see if you compare the results in societies and countries based on a poverty reduction strategy, which is only a picture and a description of the situation without financial lines, and the national development plan always has a financial line in the medium-term EU financial perspectives. The difference is huge, and they benefit from the most vulnerable layers of the population, i.e. part of society in a state of the most social need. With an apology for overtime, please accept this kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15632	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15633	This Chapter IV is necessary. Whether it should have a name - government acts, or others, is not a problem even if this name stands, however, what you did in the bill of law. The 42nd to 46th is below the level of what already exists in the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, let me remind you, these are art. 29, 30, 31. of the existing Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the existing law has three members that are fully in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and what you've listed here and what you've given as -- the content of general acts, it's not true at first. Now, what was wanted by this amendment. It was wanted to create one nomenclature of all acts brought by the Government and the amendment promoter was, apparently, in good interest, just forgotten that it was regulated by the Constitution. This is the provision of Article 90(2) where the Government is said to be making regulations, decisions and other law enforcement acts. So the acts adopted by the Government and to be prescribed by this law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia are all in the role of law enforcement. For two, what is their name - regulations, decisions, and other acts are certainly conclusions and solutions, as one specific vision. Decisions to set up, resolve, etc. This amendment cannot fix what is contained in the article. 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46. It's a bill of law. These provisions do not give a description and do not correspond to the name of the act. Since it's long, this text, what is a regulation, what is a regulation; what is a decision, what is a decision; what is a solution, what is solved by this solution and what is the conclusion, and then you have made another mistake: a memorandum on the budget is a kind of act, but it's fully prescribed by the Budgetary System Act and you don't need to put it into government law. There are several other acts, which are not in direct function of law enforcement. These are programmes, plans, but they are formally adopted by the government in the form of solutions or decisions. Then there are opinions and consents. The opinion expressed can also be given in the form of a decision. So there's no problem. All of this is sublimely covered, but what you have given as a text, as a content, as a definition of decision, solutions, conclusions, etc. It's misspelled. Our legal theory well described it in the existing Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, let me give you an example. You have stated in Article 42: The government is working more closely on the relationship governed by law, in accordance with the purpose and purpose of the law. It doesn't mean anything. A more detailed discussion of the relationship governed by the law - it means nothing. And the existing Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia states -- the regulation is closer to regulating relations of importance for law enforcement, laying down the principles of the internal organisation of ministries, administration bodies in their composition and special organisations and education of professional services. In accordance with the Constitution and all that is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. So you're weak, and you're weak from the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15634	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 45a be added after article 45a. The government suggests that this amendment should not be accepted. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15635	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read Mrs. Comic's amendment. After Article 45, a new title is added – Resolution and Article 45a, which reads: "The resolution obliges the Government to act and make decisions on matters of its own jurisdiction". Explanation; normally in European solutions, an excellent instrument by which the Government implements its programme and clearly, simply, publicly and quickly announces to citizens decisions from the near future resulting from the points of resolution. Of course, Mrs. Comic will explain this amendment in more detail, and I will take this opportunity for the government's request to ask a few questions. First, whether such exorcism by the MPs is necessary, in order for the debate, which takes more than ten hours, in the early hours of the morning, the government to accept some of the amendments submitted. I think that, as the National Assembly, we could do far better to plan time and to deprive ourselves and the government's representatives of such sessions, which are not worthy of this Parliament and cannot lead to good, quality solutions at the end of the line, because it is certain that we cannot work quality at four in the afternoon and at four in the morning. I am very glad that the minister and in these late hours recognized the quality of the amendments offered, which we have submitted from the DS, but also from other parties. I am sorry that the persuasion lasted this long, but unlike most government ministers, this minister still has the strength to accept that the bill's proposals are not entirely perfect. You see, we're also discussing government acts tonight. Here, I'd like to ask a question...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15636	Mr. Krassic, I always see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15637	Mr. Angelkovic, I just want to say to you -- here's the last three hours, you're not worth two MPs. You have to throw out one of the cards in order to be equal with the rest of us. So, please, do it so we don't warn you of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I asked you nicely to respect the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15638	Mr. Markovic, you know I'm worth two MPs, Mr. Markovic is in the back row, so that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15639	Well, then we know that there are us here who are worth two and those who are worth one, and then we wonder how it has a quorum; it's obviously that way. I wanted to say something more serious than what we're talking about right now. Recently, the Ministry of Capital Investments and Minister Velimir Ilic adopted an act. Therefore, an act has been adopted proposing to local self-government not to apply the Law on Planning and Construction. Since the Honorable Minister is a professor and certainly knows better than I do, which is because of the profession, which because of the experience, this matter, I don't know if he could explain which of these acts are listed here, or in the previous law, which is the name of the act suspending the law. So that would really be nice to explain whether local self-government should apply the Law on Planning and Construction or not should apply it. Is that changing this law now and whether it's a regulation? And it's not, because it says the regulation is working out the law. There can be no rules of procedure, no decision, relating to public enterprises, institutions, etc. A solution, appointing, appointing, adjudication, conclusions, which, by means of an act, the Minister for Capital Investments suspends the law and what it is called, and whether that is enough to call the Minister for Capital Investments to account. Do we have a minister who understands the hierarchy of legal acts at all, does he even know what the law is, and what the regulation, decision, conclusion or something else is? Could political campaign make it appear on television that is close to him and suggest that citizens, even worse, to local self-government, do not apply the law. I mean, when we talk about government acts, we should mention that, too. It doesn't matter, it's the subject and it's that. We'll talk about it if there's a debate about the government, but don't let us talk about that kind of thing. It's very serious, one minister did it today, and I believe the other won't do it, at least not the ministers who are lawyers, but this is the topic when we talk about government acts. I thank you for your cooperation in these hours of the night, and I only hope that in future, we will come to solutions that are agreeable to come at some time that will suit you and us more, and that will be available to the public, that they can follow through small screens. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15640	Mr. Markovic, I thought you said goodbye to us, that's how you acted. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15641	At first, I must make a point in principle, so that the Government and the Executive Authority do not bring any declarations or resolution. The declaration does not enforce the law, as neither does the resolution. Once, 20 and a few years ago, here in fashion, in this building, by 31 December of the current year there were resolutions on socio-economic development in the following year, so they were political acts appropriate to that period of socialist self-government society. If there is a need for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to express its political position on a matter and to announce some direction of its activities, then it does so by putting its views on certain issues, opinions, at press conferences, and by the very fact that something is proposed. The draft act is not an act, as the government submits the bill, it does not mean that the government passed the law. The government may propose a resolution to the National Assembly, but the National Assembly makes a resolution. It can also propose a declaration, but the National Assembly brings a declaration and there is no need for it to pass a resolution as an independent act, because no resolution is law enforcement, no law enforcement. This is the problem of this amendment, and obviously there is a need to fill a gap, where the government must express its political position on a very important issue. So the mechanism is completely different, I don't think it's a good thing that we're building a formal legal institution out of a resolution this way. The resolution as an act and recommendations as an act, they are characteristic of, I say, the United Nations, their Security Council authority, the General Assembly, are characteristic of the Council of Europe, for the EU, but are not characteristic of the forms of law enforcement and the fulfilment of obligations arising from the law. I'll give you one example. I think that today in the Assembly of the State Community it will be on the agenda, it will not, so they removed it from the agenda; it is good when they moved it, because some of our wise men from the Council of Ministers have found a constitutional basis for the adoption of a law that absolutely violates the human rights of an individual in a common opinion and regulation of the European Union. We are neither members of the European Union nor those recommendations constitute binding legal acts for the Member States of the European Union. The paper suffers everything, I just said, all the things you listed, those five or six members about the content of acts brought by the government is wrong and not good. I don't know how you can agree with that, existing solutions are much more quality, but don't make declarations, resolutions and these things bring government, then we devalue our Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15642	The word has an MP, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment adding a new title and article 45a after article 45a, in line with what the spirit of the promoter was and with our repeated note that this should not be in our law. I repeat, the intention is not to make a new law, but to try and fix everything we can. So we propose to introduce a resolution and that the resolution obliges the government to act and make decisions on matters of its own jurisdiction. Why did we propose a recommendation, a resolution, and so could the directive. Each time, wherever this can be done in the proposals for our amendments, you will find something that resembles European solutions and European standards. Whether currently applied in the countries of the European Union or from a phase where various countries have joined the European Union, but with a clear intention. Why? We think that too little is known about European integration in this society, unfortunately, I think in this assembly as well. European integrations are a process insensitive to election cycles. It is the first feature of European integration. So, totally insensitive to election cycles. The second feature of European integration is that they are a voluntary process and that none of the jobs you have to do in European integration is the subject of any pressure and any conditioning. We do nothing because of what Europe is asking us to do, but because it should be good for our society. The papers are missing. As much as I can hold a debate on whether the government should bring a resolution or not, but there are no documents in our society on a clear list of priorities, which Serbia represents. We only deal with created and imposed priorities. This is the issue of The Hague, as the foreign policy issue, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, as well as our internal political issue, as well as the issue of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. But none of these issues are really a question for countries that are on the path of European integration. They deal with internal policy because European integration is a topic of internal policy, not foreign policy. That is why we are talking about resolutions, directives and recommendations. Our society is still at a pre-phase stage, when we just list inherited problems and still at the stage of the decision-making process are we going to inherit problems, as a generation of politicians who are now responsible for anything in Serbia, forward to our children, or we'll tell them -- let's, once we're done with all the invoices, exposed to who knows when, that it might go into the future. That's what resolutions are for, to give a list of priorities that the country has ahead of it. That's what the recommendations are for, for a list of jobs the country needs to do. That's what the directives are for, means the list of action plans that the government of the Republic of Serbia owes each of the institutions with which it is in communication. We don't have any surprises why he doesn't understand it or he doesn't want to understand it. It's not unusual for us to have, more often than we should, a qualification or disqualification of anyone who proposes, but a story about what is proposed. Tonight's and tonight's debate was one of the few in the Assembly, where you had the opportunity to hear two opposition political parties talking about what the content of the debate was. You didn't get a chance to hear disqualification and it mattered who was talking, not everything that mattered. It is a huge step in political communication in Serbia. I'd be happy to see that as a predominant state. Unfortunately not. I know that the fact that we have debated so much about our amendments and amendments of our fellow SRS is more due to the ignorance of communication within the Assembly than anyone has ever tried to really see what the content of any of the amendments submitted to the Bill on Government would mean. And for the resolution, and for the declaration, and for the directives the government will make, we will always vote. Believe me or not, in six months you will come into this same congregation with a proposal to enter a resolution, recommendation and directive. Maybe if everyone reads a little more, it wouldn't be burned, we'd cut the time, and I repeat that tonight is a teaching not to matter who's talking but what's being said. It will be much easier to communicate than to communicate at the level of impatience. At least that's not what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15644	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Dr Zoran Lončar, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15645	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the very comprehensive debate and the many arguments we have heard, part of a united debate concerning the government's law has been concluded. After all these arguments were made, I came forward with proposals on the acceptance of the amendment. I will take advantage of the opportunity to make a statement in the final word, after the conclusion of this debate, on your proposal to accept or eventually withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15646	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State Administration (Statistics) You have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Krstin, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Milan Stanimirović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Miljan Radovanovic, Miljko Četrović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Stević, Petar Jojić, Milorad Mirčić, Goran Cvetanović, Zoran Krasić, Bozidar Koprivica, Sveto Perić, Ljubomir Kragović, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Branislav Blažić, Nemanja Sarović, Veroljub Arsic and Vojislav Milajić. The amendment was written by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic, to members 3, 69, 78, 80, 81, 83 and 87, who submitted on 23 November 2004, and Marko Krstin, to Article 72. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the Bill on State Administration has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word is sought by Mr. Markovic, a People's MP, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15647	I think they're right MPs who say the chairman should take care of the existence of the quorum. Since I'm not an authorised representative of the MP's club, I'm not going to ask for a quorum right now, I'm not authorized to do that, but I want to point to another thing, which is that it's four o'clock in the morning and that work loses every sense, despite the fact that maybe the last few hours have been quality. So, I don't think it's possible to continue working in these conditions, I noticed from this pay phone, as I was saying, certain colleagues who have fallen a little bit, although I don't mind. It's neither a mockery nor a conviction. It's not normal to be awake at four in the morning, honestly, and especially to do intellectual work. On the other hand, I saw on the other side of the yogurt, pastry, etc. If you think it's the ambience in which we need to work, you're the majority, and you're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who can do it, we can do it that way. You won't stop him. We're not going to name a colleague, there's no need, I don't want to blame my colleagues, but I want to tell you something else -- don't think that you're going to end this exhaustion to stop us from defending our amendments. We are encouraged by this, but I don't think this is a good way to work for the National Assembly. If you decide to do this way, I must tell you that we, as MPs of the opposition, who still experience doing this solely because you are not able to properly schedule the time and manner of work of the National Assembly, then I warn you that as MPs of the opposition, we will constantly insist that you be present here in the hall just as we are. That way we can work, but not the way there's 84 cards and MPs out there. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated and every minute of further work, we are destroying the reputation of our home. Take a break, let's continue tomorrow, or today, during the day, while we rest a little, and I think the debate will be far better and better. This way we won't achieve anything. That's a suggestion, and you'll decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15648	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15649	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihailovich, I'm advertising the breach of article 1. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the rights and obligations of the Members of the People in the National Assembly, Article 28, which speaks of the one who holds the chair. I will also find this member who speaks of the inability to, due to extraordinary circumstances or indiscipline of MPs, provide normal conditions for work. You probably got some sleep. You were in high school and some other preparations, from Ravna Gora flew here, and you went for a walk, and then you came back, three hours on shift with Parliament Speaker Zoran Angelkovic, called Bucky. In such a situation I really don't understand Mr. Minister, I reckon the minister should be a serious man, if there are MPs who don't understand it and don't want to behave in accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, whether it is possible for the Minister, who is the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, to know that we now need to start, as he said, a debate in details on the state administration law. And he also knows that 43 or 45 amendments have been submitted, a few accepted, so at 04.10 hours – since the camera, if there is any transmission at all, is fixed only on the speaker, but that is completely irrelevant, because it will not help us, if you continue to work – we continue to fight for our views and defend the amendments, in an atmosphere that I would like the public to be familiar with, but the whole of Serbia is now asleep, or much of what is being done here and how the MPs behave. Some have bench sandwiches, others are leaned, one MP, who is premature in one parliamentary group, walks from left to right, the head of the parliamentary group roars, one stands, the other exits and enters. What does this look like? What is this, is this the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that here with great dignity and attention, when it comes to each amendment, there are SRS MPs sitting at 04.10 hours and our president of the parliamentary group, the one who today has the highest confidence as a politician individually in Serbia and who warns you that you are not doing this job and that it is not good. It is not good for this institution either, it is not good for you yourselves, who will one day realize that these are not the rights and obligations of the MP per article 1. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. If you think it's normal for certain MPs to behave like this, with the apology of others, but in the presence of one who, on my right, is at least said, Neanderthally acting, I would really ask you to show seriousness in the work, because I am counting on a lot of people who realize how important both the Assembly and this law are. Respect your Mr. Minister, representative of the executive, whose law comes on the agenda and behave in accordance with Article 1. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15650	I would ask you not to insult the MPs in these early hours. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15651	This amendment amends Article 3. The bill, and the need to change that member is so obvious that ordinary reading can determine that something is wrong with what the government has proposed. It's like this: "The work of the government's authorities is subject to government supervision." Second position: "The National Assembly oversees the work of the government authorities through the supervision of the work of the government and members of the government". Third, the most dangerous position: "Over the administrative dispute, the work of the state administration authority is subject to judicial supervision as well". By definition, the administrative dispute is a form of legal control, judicial control of the legality of final administrative acts. In the provisions of the State Administration Act, there is no room for such provisions on government oversight. The title above Article 3 reads - Oversight of the authorities of the state administration. What are we proposing to fix now? We propose that Article 3 reads: "The government is overseeing the work of the government's authorities. "It simply, simply, clearly, does not bring any confusion, and reflects what the Government thought should be arranged for Article 3. It's a bill of law. Now you've told us what direct surveillance is, you've associated with what's indirect surveillance. I just didn't want to report on that provision, where the minister accepted, on behalf of the government, the amendment, it seems to me that Meho Omerovic submitted the amendment, referred to article 2. There was a problem, only practice casts out on the ground that's the problem. You see, when the National Assembly controls the government and the ministry, then we have a problem with that so-called. to the para-state authorities. It's associated with this surveillance thing. The National Assembly, if controlled by a para-state body far from the government, could not obtain documentation and data, and this is similar with the surveillance provisions. So we're proposing a simple formulation that meets all the needs to look like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15652	The word has an MP, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15653	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Democratic Party MPs will support the amendment to the Bill on State Administration, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic, for the simple reason that this amendment is a much better and more accurate solution than the proposed text in Article 3, in particular Article 2, which states that the National Assembly is overseeing the work of the government authorities through the supervision of the work of the government and members of the government. In all the law, as we said in the debate in principle, there are excess texts, there are extra sentences, and there are vague and from our point of view incorrectly written. We told you in the principle debate that this is a party battle, we would be silent about both laws for the simple reason that this law can be read and know that people in the authorities of the state will be depressed. It's not that. So we have nothing as a party as to what the vast majority of people who work at the state administration say -- what kind of miracle is this? The fact that the Government, or the Authority’s elder, will have a weaker position, since this takes off authority if the Government agrees that this should be adopted, is no party benefit. Let me get this straight. And it is precisely the text of this law that is incomprehensible, with the excess story, that we are practically indecisive to submit amendments, except in the exceptional six amendments, as was the case with the government law. If you accept that the supervision of the authorities of the state administration is done by the government, then you have a clear and clear solution. What is essentially worrying and showing disrespect for the MPs are reasons for refusing amendments and one part of my debate in particular will be dedicated to reading these arguments. So we can all see what the government's authorities are doing. Someone in the authorities of the state administration has dared to write that the supervision of courts over the work of the state administration authority through an administrative dispute is unequivocally derived from the provision of Article 124(3). The Constitution, under which the lawfulness of individual acts, to which public authorities and organisations exercising public authority decide on rights or obligations, shall be decided by the court in the administrative dispute. So it doesn't stand, so it doesn't stand, and it knows who read the Constitution and who knows what the court is. A sentence as given, as regards the administrative dispute, that through the administrative dispute, the work of the State Administration Authority is subject to the supervision of the courts essentially constitutes control and anyone who wishes can interpret it in such a way. What you have also written in your explanation for the refusal of amendments is that the National Assembly does not have direct supervisory powers over the work of the authorities of the state administration, as the Government has. Then how can I call the Minister to the Assembly? Is the minister an elder of an authority run by an authority of the state administration? What does that mean, I don't have direct surveillance? Does this mean that you are trying to explain in this law to explain that in the National Assembly we must not invite the Minister to question him, whether it is a matter of trust, whether he is of interest to the Assembly. With a little cynical humor, the texts of the law on the state administration and the government law are proof that no one is overseeing the authorities of the administration, because that the government has exercised control over the proposal of the body of the state administration, it would certainly not have come to the Assembly in such a text. Please accept this amendment, as it simply contributes to the clarity of Article 3, as one of the first members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15654	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15655	Thank you, Mr. Mihailovich, and I think you should still provide as many regular working conditions as possible. I think it is extremely inappropriate that MPs of the ruling coalition show nervousness in this way. Of course, if you're bored, if you don't want to do the job that the citizens have chosen you for, then there's no need for us to take this duty that we're doing in a much more serious way, to interfere with this work. So, whoever wants to work, let them stay and whoever doesn't want to go out freely, but I think it's extremely inappropriate for you to walk around the hall, talk and stand in the corners. To Article 3. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law on the State Administration of Amendments was submitted by MP Verica Radet, for the reasons why, as in this law, as well as in many previous ones that we have discussed, there are obviously certain problems with those who write these laws, or perhaps it would be better to tell those who translate those laws. I would take the opportunity to ask Minister Loncar at first whether he would take responsibility for this law, or whether he wrote this law, because it was obvious, and I think he admitted it himself, we could understand that when we read this law, that this previous government law was not written in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment to Article 3 requires that this member be legally regulated, since the government has practically allowed itself to make up warm water with this proposal and to explain some things that they will not have in any way and must not have any place in the law on state administration. The formula that was proposed is broad. It is said that the work of the government authorities is subject to government supervision and that the National Assembly is then overseeing the work of the state administration authorities through the supervision of the work of the government and members of the government and, ultimately, through the administrative dispute, the work of the state administration authorities is subject to judicial supervision. If, in this way, it were to spread to anyone who, and on what basis, has certain powers and certain supervision, we would practically come into some vicious circle, and then this Article 3 could have not three positions, but probably 33, and therefore the solution proposed by the SRS, or the People's MP, Verica Radeta, who is the direct signator of this amendment, that is, Article 3. The bill reads - the government's authority's supervision of the work - is a much better solution, is a more concise and legally clearer solution in any case. What should be ideal for this law, and of course for all the other laws that are passed, is that they be as short as possible, as concisely as possible, but at the same time as possible, and not that I should do so by listing certain things that are unnecessary and by prescribing certain norms from the Constitution or other laws, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, we come up with a maximum spread of regulations, and I don't really know what this is all about. For this reason, I propose that the ruling coalition reconsider this amendment, and above all, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Loncar, and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15656	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15657	The Honorable Chairman, based on Article 82, and due to the obvious disagreement of the situation in the hall and on the monitor, for example the last row on the right, I ask you to determine the quorum. I ask all my colleagues to sit in the hall if they do not already participate in the debate and respect the Rules of Procedure, so that we do not have to apply all the techniques that otherwise exist in this assembly, so, calling, counting. Please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15658	Thank you. Please confirm the quorum. Insert the cards into your identification units. I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-19-0.u15659	In order for the technique and monitors to rest, we will resume tomorrow at 13.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the break, we continue our work. Please, let's find the quorum first. I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar.
