ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. At the beginning, I invite you to pay our respects to the late MP Ostoj Stojanovic for a minute of silence. Praise him. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 221 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 200 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. At the same time, let me express my satisfaction that you are present today in such a large number. We have no notice of the prevention of the MPs. We are moving on to Mr. Zoran Perovic's resignation as President of the Republic Election Commission. You have accepted Zoran Perovic's resignation as president of the Republic Election Commission. The National Assembly finds that Zoran Perovic resigned as president of the Republic Election Commission. Let me thank Mr Zoran Perovic, so far President of the Republic Election Commission, on your behalf and on your behalf, for doing the duties of the President of the Commission. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. They were delivered to you: the minutes of the 2005 National Assembly session held on 18, 19, 24, 25, 26 and 31 January and 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16 and 17 February 2005; the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 20 January 2005; and the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 18 and 28 February 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, and on the basis of Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Administrative Board has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 2005 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the Republic of Serbia held on 18, 19, 24, 25, 26 and 31 January and 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16 and 17 February 2005. For 132, against one, with five abstentions, did not vote 107, out of 245 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 18, 19, 24, 25, 26 and 31 January and 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16 and 17 February 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the January 20th 2005 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. For 129, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 112, of 243 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 20 January 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the 2005 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 18 and 28 February 2005. For 131, there was no 113 vote of 244 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2005 National Assembly session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 18 and 28 February 2005. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for extending the agenda of the session. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will use my right and on the basis of requests to extend the agenda, but I would like to warn you that it is a harshly injured dignity of the National Assembly, at least four members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I am particularly offended by the fact that the President of the National Assembly has injured a member in whom he is obliged to represent the National Assembly, so I do not allow him to represent me in the way he represented me these days in public, and in particular the letter he sent to the President of the Republic and in which he sent him the forged Labour Act. Therefore, I object that you have put on the agenda the only item of the agenda, the re-election on the Labour Act that you delivered to the President of the Republic, because, Mr. President of the National Assembly, this bill you are asking for today is not the law that we adopted in the National Assembly. And you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I have indeed had in my parliamentary practice many presidents of the National Assembly, the worst. You dared, I know your blessed smile and I don't see it, I know you've now spread your mouth from ear to ear, but the blessed can only be those who live in ignorance. You have knowingly forged a law that has been passed by the National Assembly, and now you are forcing us to lick what you have spit, Mr. President of the National Assembly; that the messengers may participate in your court. There are you here with different interests, which you are present today, but you must have one more important interest than anything else, which is that no one in this assembly is trampling on you, because by trampling on you, there are at least 20,000 voters who voted for you. President of the National Assembly, what you did deserves to go to court. If there's a lawsuit, and I hear someone's been asking you to prosecute, I'll vote to remove your immunity. I've never experienced such a mockery of the National Assembly before. That's why I'm asking the National Assembly to declare whether it should put on the agenda your so-called first item of the agenda at all. We don't want any part of it. No one here is going to humiliate us. You sent a forged law to the President of the Republic, he gave it back to you. Send him the law we passed, if he refuses to sign it, we will take part again in the vote on the law. Don't push our chicken eggs again, don't harass us, don't humiliate us and insult us. If you think this is how you run the Assembly, then you will take us in the time of King Milan Obrenović. He only collected MPs when the budget was due, and then immediately sent them back to prison. We're not cattle here, we're not stupid, we're not illiterate, and don't insult the people we represent here. I object to voting on something we did not send to the president of the Republic of Serbia. I protect his dignity, the dignity of the president of Serbia, the one that is there doesn't deserve to be president of Serbia, but he took an oath to represent you in the country and abroad. Since the radical will be the next president of Serbia, I want to immediately cut off the right of the National Assembly president to deceive the Radicals of the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13060	Mr. Nikolic, let me ask you, what kind of injury did you advertise? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Table, dignity, then 2, 28, 180 and 181.) Okay, 2, 28, 180 and 181, since I'm obliged, as President of the Assembly, to give an explanation. But before that, let's hear it, two more injuries to the Rules of Procedure have been sought. Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13062	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 28. Rules of Procedure. As President of Parliament, you are required to take care of the legality of the business and the conduct of this high house. It is obvious that the will that MPs made when the Labour Act was passed and the law that this parliament adopted, by voting on the law in general, did not correspond to the text that came from this house, from parliament, from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to the Serbian presidency, the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, to be signed. Of course, the president, with his job as well as the representation and representation of the Republic of Serbia in the country and in the world in the best possible way, and his professional services, found that there was an important disagreement between the delivery and the text of the laws adopted by the MPs and the expression of the people's will, because the MPs here represent the people, and that there was a counterfeiting of what came out of this high house as a legal act. And a few dots. Without entering the law here, the president warned the National Assembly in his letter that there had been injuries, but that, Mr. President, did not produce any effect, except that today, on the agenda of this House, there is a forged text of the law. I propose, and the DS parliamentary group has, in written form and referred to the President of the Legislative Committee, Mr Aligrudić, that the Legislative Committee, after this session has been suspended, establish all relevant facts concerning the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the usurpation of the legislative authority by the persons who forged the law. In accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure, a legal and technical editorial, which is a term that several important persons in this country have used in the past two weeks, one of those important persons is you, Mr. President, the second Minister of Labour, Mr. Lalovic, the third secretary of parliament, Mr. Danilovic, can propose the Legislative Committee in the form of amendments to this assembly here. No one, no matter what they think about the content of the law, no matter what they think of the financial and political consequences of the law, can take legislative power into their own hands. Someone has usurped the legislative authority, and the DS is asking that this session be suspended, and that whoever is in charge, which is the Legislative Committee, determines what it is and put it to the competent authorities, and that there are the prosecution and the court, to determine who broke the law, abuse the official position or unwittingly doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13063	Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13064	Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to address the Assembly and the public last session because of article 118. The draft labour law, which I am the subject of the amendment, is mentioned quite a bit in the press and we all understand that as such a member did not go to the signing of the President of the Republic. Namely, what it's about. I want to take advantage of the presence of Parliament Speaker Mr Markovic and Vice President Milan Markovic, because we were together in the cabinet when it happened. The next day after the vote and the adoption of the Labour Act, I received a phone call from the cabinet of the President of the Assembly, I went to talk. Mr Predrag Markovic suggested that I give my consent not to go to the President of the Republic in this text 118, telling me that Article 120 and Article 118 have the same text. Since I know that article 118 obliges the employer to pay for past work, a warm meal and a regress to workers, and in article 120, it says that the employer is not obliged, but not necessarily, which means that in fact, I deciately rejected such a proposal and asked to read me the title in front of that member. We did so, Mr. Milan Markovic was present, I waited for the opportunity to clarify and, among other things, I told the President of the Assembly that if I accepted such a thing, it was against the work of parliament and against the law, that it would damage all employees in Serbia. It writes in the press how much additional funding it takes from the budget to be allocated to those supplementary commitments that they did not plan on, and hence the commitment they want to make to make concessions to these foreign investors. As I said once, to give them free companies, our sweat-based companies, and yet less cheap labour, that they acquire their capital in Serbia. I was against it, and I said that this is how I do huge damage to all the employees in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13065	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Stojacic, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13066	Thank you, Mr. President. People's MPs, in order for the Serbian public to be aware of what this is about, I call on the Rules of Procedure, Article 28, that the Assembly is obliged to take care of legality. I would like to indicate what has been changed in the Labour Act in relation to the text adopted by the MPs of this House. I will remind you, in relation to the text of the Labour Act adopted at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 17 February 2005, a written copy of the law, which in Articles 105, 108 and 118, differs from the laws passed by the MPs. In Article 105, adding, instead of saying "this law" points (1) to 4), although MPs have never adopted such an amendment, the will of MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia has been severely violated. In Article 108, point 4 was added), although the amendment was never found before the MPs of the Republic Assembly. There is no point 7 in Article 118, although the amendment was voted by the MPs of the National Assembly in this House. That point 7 has been moved as point 4) to Article 108, which has roughly violated the will of the MPs of the Republic's parliament. What has not been established here, and I will have to remind you that you are also consulting stenograms from the last Assembly of February 17th, when there was a vote on the Labour Act on the agenda, you have the injured will of the MPs of the National Assembly, which refers to the amendment to Article 188, whose representative I am in front of the DS parliamentary group. I find that after the vote was held, the president found that 199, against 15, a abstention, had not voted 11, a total of 226 MPs. The amendment, although adopted, was not included in the text of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the President of the Republic of Serbia for signature. Another shortfall or gross error, or intentional error, is the matter to be established on the Administrative or any other board or commission, occurred in the election of Article 103, or amendment to Article 103, which was submitted by Mr Toma Busetic and Brance Stojanovic. The president found that 88 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, against 103 abstentions, did not vote 36 of the 227 MPs and found that the National Assembly accepted this amendment, with 86 votes in favour and, I remind you, against 103. So, if we were to sum up all this stuff that we've put out today, it's said that five members of this labour law are at stake. I will remind you of one more thing, legal and technical changes, if the Assembly considers, or the competent authorities consider them necessary to implement them, it is possible to perform them unanimously to Article 140. The Rules of Procedure before the law is put to the vote, that is, by the MPs of the National Assembly. It's not done. Legal-technical changes were made afterwards. So, article 140 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. I especially suggest that the article is 160. The Rules of Procedure stipulated that an old secretary of the National Assembly, in this case Mr Danilovic, should be drawn up on the originator of the law, stamping him, on his keeping and records. We have serious objections to the work of the President of the Assembly, the Secretary of Parliament, but I also remind you that there is also a obligation for both the Minister and the Ministry to make a new text of the labour law after the amendment has been adopted and to review all the amendments and provisions that exist in it. Misses are serious and I appeal to this Parliament, MPs, that each of you individually, but also all of us together, take advantage of the capacity of the democratic mandate that we have in this Parliament and that, in accordance with our views, morals and honesty, but also by standing up for the rule of law, at this point we do not vote on this labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13067	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic and MP Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13068	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am obliged to report in view of my fellow SRS counterpart's exposure. I was with the President of the Assembly when the event took place. I am obliged to confirm the truthfulness of Mr. Stevanovic's allegations, but I just want to say that I was quite another matter with the president of the Assembly, unrelated to the labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13069	Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13070	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first and foremost object that a broken Rules of Procedure in a provision which obliges the President of the National Assembly to, following a reported violation of the Rules of Procedure, give an explanation, so that the MP may declare whether he is satisfied with that explanation and to request a vote on the reported breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before I move on to a statement about the injuries I have seen, the essential nature, asked the president to give an explanation to the previous speakers, to know whether to discuss again what they discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13071	It's okay, I'll take it. Be nice, get back to your seat. I'll give you an explanation. I simply wanted to be correct, because I realized from what I heard in the public that the same member of the Rules of Procedure would be advertised, so I wanted to give an explanation, but you are right, different members appear, so there is no reason not to give an immediate explanation of what is stated as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize in advance. I believe that this topic, in the way it is interpreted in public, is terribly important, and I will use my right, since the explanation is not limited by time, that we do not accidentally miss something, so that it causes confusion, because this is about the fact that on several occasions the President of the Assembly, someone who represents all of you, who is known to violate the law, is named by the unsuspecting persons, named from this pay phone, has been further harassed by the public. Fortunately for all of us, the President of the Assembly strictly adhered to the law, strictly informing all interested and all competent and even trying to do more, which you will know immediately, but based on documentation, not based on this kind of flat-rate assessment. As you know, during the 17th vote, and we have just adopted a record on this, so during the vote, the session has been suspended, as a conflict has been observed in some members compared to the amendments proposed. After that, the President of the Legislative Committee informed us all, listing the tax amendments and the proposal that the Legislative Committee had decided that in the case of these amendments and future observed colitisies, legal and technical corrections were carried out and that it had made known to the Assembly that this was possible. If the Legislative Committee had an accurate proposal on how the correction was done, the Assembly would have had to vote on it, and if there were an individual opinion during the Legislative Committee, we would also have to hear it here. I consulted a stenogram on this vote, because I had to do it very quickly. As you know, Article 28. The Rules of Procedure reads: "The President of the National Assembly shall carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, care for the timely and harmonised work of the National Assembly, other tasks provided for in the law and these Rules of Procedure." This is about attitude - taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. This ageing implies that the President of the Assembly does everything to warn professional services as soon as possible in case he has legal-technical corrections, and there are them every time, and in that case he calls, if anything is controversial, the representative, and as you know it is, if the Government is a representative of the proposings, the professional service of the competent ministry, and if someone else, as in the cases, at least for my term, when it was, for example, the Committee on European Integration, and then called on Ms Milivojevic's professional service as president. When he was an Administrative Committee or a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Nikolic was invited. So he's always consulting on whether it's legal. To be clear, the typical example is that it would be clear to all of us, if we were to adopt an amendment to add Article 7 after Article 6 in another member who is called for by Article 7 to be corrected. So you have such benign corrections, because there's been a shift, and of course you have those where there's an amendment or part of the amendment in the wrong place, let's say it's in the place that predicts profit, not compensation, and it has to be changed. I remind you, the President of the Assembly must leave as soon as possible to leave time for the President of the Republic to sign an order to declare the law, because he has only seven days from the day of his vote. That's why I signed all the laws except one, because that one had a large number of amendments, that's the Labour Act, and I asked the professional service to let me know if there was anything wrong with the professional service of the competent ministry and to send the text of the law as soon as possible tomorrow. This is because the president of the Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies. Tomorrow afternoon, it's about 18. I got another piece of information from the service. This is an indication that Article 118 on which amendments have been adopted contains different solutions after these amendments in Article 120. It is possible in practice for employees to find themselves in an extremely awkward position because they are looking for something under Article 118. You voted that something was absolutely right in article 118. In article 120, it's only a possibility, and it would happen that they're profiting, say, irresponsible lawyers or something, because someone would call on a member of 118 and someone to be a member of 120. Since, at the same time, in Article 118, two MPs, one representative of the ruling coalition, one representative of the opposition, have also given views in the amendment, some of which relate to earnings, some of which are not related to earnings. I have called both MPs, Mr Mr Mrvos and Mr Stevanović. Why? Because it is necessary for the professional service to respect the will of the MPs in the newsroom. It's just amazing how people sometimes don't understand what you're asking them. Fortunately, some conversations are clearly recorded, so it's not a dispute. The question was, did you have an article 120 in mind when you proposed Article 118? It was a very clear question because the professional service must give clarification on the consistent will of the Members. Secondly, it is very important because, compared to the College of Presidents, this really has nothing to do with the President of the Republic, he will have to ask the competent ministry and the Government to propose an amendment to which this conflict is removed. The first MP, Mr Mrvos, told me - I didn't take care of Article 120, I don't care whether it's being solved in the way it is in Article 118 or Article 120, and I am prepared and written to sign that opinion, and you suggest to the Government that I amend what you think. Mr. Stevanovic obviously didn't understand the question. He said, "I'm staying here for it to be there." I said -- that's quite all right, thank you, now I know that two interpretations are different because it's about amendments in exactly the same text. Afterwards, the professional service made corrections and delivered them overnight to the President of the Republic, as the president of the Assembly was no longer there. Be kind, it is terribly important, in the further development of the situation, in an attempt to respect Article 28. The Rules of Procedure have been misused and attempted to violate the integrity of the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly. The president of the assembly is obliged to guard both. On my departure, I gave the order, taking care of the concerted work, that, if necessary, the service of President Tadic should be called to check together once again whether all amendments were made, to clarify the reason for the legal and technical corrections and to possibly bring all misunderstandings into line. Although, as you know, I worked in that place across the street and there was one extraordinary professional service, capable of harmonising it, but in any case I felt it was necessary to carry out the comparison. I was informed that the Serbian president's service requested a check of the authenticity of the text received by the ministry and that it was confirmed to it. The ministry is responsible for labour and social policy. After that, the day ahead of the deadline for signing the apparitions, a letter was sent to the address of the president of the assembly, in which, of course, the president of Serbia does not think he claims to have abused something. On the contrary, knowing that he is consistently obeying the law requires that he check with the professional services once again whether something has occurred in that letter as an incorrect or unauthentic text of the law. The President of the Assembly, please, sent a letter that you could see. In that letter he met the request of the President of the Republic and sent him a reply of the professional service, which was sent to the President of the Assembly, with a detailed clarification. And you could see that clarification -- how, in order to satisfy the will of the MPs, a legal-technical correction was done. Unfortunately, the president of the assembly had to warn the President of the Republic in that letter that someone was unauthorized by his signature, that we had two documents that were completely different from the place of signature, and that, I suppose by chance, none of these letters were legally misleading in the prescribed way. At that moment, I had no doubts, please, that what I saw on TV during my vacation would happen. On TV, I saw that a party spokesman came into possession of a document that the president of the Assembly sent to the President of the Republic and made the document public and waved at it. So, then, please, then I came into an incredible situation to see that the president's press office came forward, which is the worst thing I've heard about this speaker today -- as a good quote. I remind you, it is the same press service that has already upset the public once, and that is why the president of Serbia has suffered damage, because from this booth it has been repeatedly called for what the service has said, and that is that the assassination of the president has been carried out. The president of Serbia suffered damage... Please, I saw in "Telefact" a statement... Please... Let me get this straight, well, there's no reason... Please, we're doing business. Please, let me get this straight. Please, I've seen amazing information. The "Telefact" began with a statement that the war was going on with statements. Please, the President of the State and the President of the Assembly exchanged letters in relation to their function, without any insult or war, giving accurate information and giving each other requests or legal instruction. It was reported as war, causing damage to two institutions. At the same time, a letter by the president of the Assembly, which, as an authentic document, the secretary put into the press's eyes, simply amazingly, causing enormous damage to the president of the Republic, was read in a part of the RTS daily. It was by accident that this journal was run by a great journalist, who was the girlfriend of the president of the Republic and was quoted Please, [[growls]] Please, probably because of the excitement, the letter is completely the opposite. [[growls]] Where the President of the Assembly calls for protection of the integrity of the President of the Republic, the opposite is quoted as asking the President of the Assembly to protect its integrity Please, all of this, please, the President of the Republic of all this, I confirm, has not been notified, and the proof that he has not been notified has been sent to the cabinet of the President of the Assembly by Mrs. Alexander Drecun, where he says - the Honorable President of the Assembly, please, we have received your letter. [[growls]] We'll inform the president of Serbia when we're in touch, when he lands at some airport. Mr. Tadic, as you know, was visiting China at the time, and someone was obviously malicious, so I've been intervened for so long, trying to present that the president of Serbia is making a statement, or signing from China, and in this way he wanted to allud at a time when he was working with other locations. The president of Serbia, fortunately, did not. He is, accepting a suggestion or legal instruction from the president of the assembly - that it is not possible under Article 84. The Constitution to do otherwise than return the text it received from the Assembly, from the professional services, to the Assembly for a vote. The president of Serbia did it. He returned the text to the vote. The text was divided into a congregation, and the president of the assembly could do nothing but schedule a session, because the law is explicit. The law, please, this is not a situation that happens for the first time, Mr Milosevic has often resorted to this, we have the experience, we have the experience, we have the experience, please, in 11 cases of documentation, what happens, so not only the letter of the law but what happens when the President of the Republic returns to the Assembly. That's when the congregation only pleads. Since the President of the Assembly has worked, and exclusively intends to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the law in the future, however much someone calls on him to break it, he will do as it says in the law. The law says - in which case it is put to a vote. I had no other option. That's what I did. And now I've given a detailed explanation. Of course, there is accompanying documentation for all of this and I ask you to respect that, and let's continue our work on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristic, do you have any other injuries to any other member or member of the Rules of Procedure? And before that, I ask Mr Nikolic, Mr Petrovic, Mr Stevanovic - are you satisfied with the explanation? No, they're not. ) Please make the Parliament’s vote on this in the day of the vote. Now he has the word Mr. Ristic. One more apology for having to explain it in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13072	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr. President that this is a very serious matter, but I cannot agree with such an inconclusive explanation and public deception. We've heard everything here but we haven't heard the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13073	Please don't insult the President of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13074	Please, these are my grades, and now I'm going to give an argument. You, Mr. President, have violated Article 46. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which defines the powers of the Legislative Committee to assess any act that goes to the Assembly for the vote. This law, i.e. this text that you have offered to the MPs, has not gone to the Legislative Committee to determine its authenticity, given that doubts have been expressed and evidence has been provided that it is a falsification. You've been calling for article 84. The constitution, where the president of the state can return the assembly to re-election, is already passed by law, and the assembly is held without debate on it. However, the letter of Mr. President of the State does not state that this is the case, but returns the text to determine its authenticity, as there is doubt that after the vote, someone has completed the text beyond the will of the MPs expressed during the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13075	Please, I warn you, Mr. Ristic, not to endanger the integrity of the President of the Republic. He didn't break the Constitution, so he didn't ask for something that the Constitution didn't predict at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13076	We would ask you, Mr. President, not to interrupt me in such a way and not to show too high a dose of cynicism, because it doesn't seem like such a serious moment to you. Otherwise, you, Mr. President, have violated Article 160. Rules of Procedure, where the originals are mentioned and the publication of acts of the National Assembly. You are required to take care of the work and behaviour of the Secretary of Parliament, who is concerned about establishing the authentic, original text that the MPs voted on. This source is kept in the archives of the National Assembly. He is provided by the seal of the National Assembly and this proves his identity. It is precisely because of a plagiarism that a criminal case has been filed against a person of the NN, who carried out a falsification in the National Assembly. I warn you, there is also a member of 154. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law. If there is a dispute over the authenticity of the text to be declared, the Legislative Committee is obliged to give authentic interpretation of the text, i.e. to determine authenticity. I also point out that there is work here for the Administrative Committee, which is concerned that all congregation services are doing their job in a valid and legal manner, and that it is determined who is guilty and responsible for the amendment and transmission of the text of the law to the President for signing. (President: Time. ) Here lies a political intention, to convalitate the amended text that someone in this congregation has done, and I do not know whose request. I therefore believe that the Administrative Board has an obligation to establish these facts. (President: Time. ) There are so many injuries that it is a really short time to say this, but I will specifically ask who has authorized you, Mr President, to secretly record conversations with the MPs and to request the subsequent consent of the MPs to amend the already adopted text of the law. You confessed to the forgeries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13077	I don't know if anyone said someone was secretly recorded. I said clearly, as far as I know, conversations are being recorded and I've heard it from different sides. So we'll ask. I owe you an explanation, Mr. Ristic. Mr. Ristic, Article 154, which you called for to be injured, claims something quite the opposite, and says, "A proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law can be submitted by an authorised legislator." No authorised promoter has asked for an authenticity assessment. Therefore, it is not correct. The authorising officer has been consulted and has also informed the service of the president of the Assembly and the service of the president of the state. You could see that on multiple occasions, documented, even now. So it's not. Also, Article 160, to which you have called, speaks about the originals and the publication of acts. The announcement of the acts comes after the vote in the Assembly, the signing of the law by the president of the Assembly and the signing of the apparitions by the president of the state, then the publication takes place, and then the secretary of the Assembly works on a number of the jobs done here. Do not judge what they will do, therefore, that someone will break it; they will not. The archive keeps the basic text. Are you satisfied with the explanation? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13078	Turn off this watch that doesn't mean anything to you anyway, you say as much as you want. I will first quote Article 181: "If the President of the Republic in the Constitution does not sign an order on the declaration of the law, which has been passed by the National Assembly, or requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law it has passed, the President of the National Assembly shall inform the MPs." Mr. President, theoretically, you could have done it on the night of the 17th, and I'll tell you everything when you lied while you explained this, when you lied, you heard well, you could have sent him a law that wasn't even on the agenda. The president would pay you back, and then you'd put him here if we voted on him again, a law we never voted on. Next, I've been quoting stenographic notes since February 17th. You deceived the public of Serbia, your tirad was meant for the public, not for us who know the truth. You deceived the Legislative Committee into discussing this. That's not true, Mr. President. The report by Parliamentarian Milos Aligrudic, submitted after a session of the Assembly's Legislative Committee before the vote, said: "The Legislative Committee has discussed the amendment to Article 119. Proposal for a law and amendment to Article 94". It has nothing to do with Article 108, which is the most important thing here, which has led to a dispute. He then found that the Legislative Committee could continue to work on the law, that they were not in the conflict with the amendment, only that the amendment to Busetic, I think, is more broadly related to the member than to the amendment by Natasha Jovanovic. So it's not true, and I don't know why you're getting involved as a chicken in a house, that service 18 was telling you something. You sent the law to the President of the Republic. Does the President of the Republic inform you in a letter and say, "By reason of your letter of February 17th, which you delivered to me the Labour Act... "You delivered the 17th evening to the President of the Republic of the Labour Act. What could the 18th Professional Service have changed you, to introduce you to something? What you did with MPs 18, when you convinced them that they would decide on the fate of the amendments adopted by the National Assembly. You said, there are stenographic notes about it, and I'm so glad that you from the democratic bloc are doing it, and you said that "one MP here didn't understand what I was asking him, but fortunately, everything is being recorded, so we've got it right." Do you have any record of what you've been talking to the MP? (President): I never said "recorded". That's what you said five minutes ago. Drink some vitamins, Mr. President, it can refresh your memory very well. The greatest deception, Mr. President, has also endangered the dignity of the President of the Republic. Twice, the President of the Republic told you that you did not provide him with the text of a law adopted in the Assembly, and you here inform us that the president wrote to you that something was not clear to him about the law that was sent to him and that the president had never warned you that he had been given a false labour law. Yes, Mr. President, you got one letter and I came to him, I don't think the MPs have one. It's the first letter he responds to when the Labour Act arrived. I'm saying he didn't sign this letter, but let the authorities question it. It's here for me to sign the President of the Republic. He says, "On this basis, I find that a text was delivered to me on the signature that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not adopt and which, therefore, does not constitute a law that I could declare under the Constitution." You continue the campaign for the law, in co-operation with the finance minister and the labour minister, who accuses lawmakers of adopting a criminal amendment. So what? The National Assembly has adopted an amendment that is estimated to be criminal. (President: Time. ) Who assesses the laws, Mr. President of the National Assembly? You, professional services, ministers or the Constitutional Court? If we fall into the hands of the ruling majority, that it assesses the constitutionality of the laws passed, that it assesses whether you have forged the law or not, then Serbia has nothing more than democracy in Serbia. I don't care what you think is wrong with the law. If you think the law is wrong, bring here a bill on amendments and amendments to the law, secure most of it, adopt it and amend the law. (President: Time. ) One public minister declares that MPs have adopted a criminal amendment, claims that the law is wrong, the minister claims the law is wrong and the minister is now silent, as if he does not know. Who wrote you the law, Minister? The National Assembly has adopted a different text, and you are delivering your idea to the President of the Republic. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. There's no time, now it's debated whether you're a forger or not. What a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13079	Obviously not. Let me answer you by the Rules of Procedure, since it's been three minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13080	You don't have to answer to me, you answer to the citizens of Serbia you represent here in the National Assembly. Have we adopted here a bill that you only need to pass or you are authorized to change it, in line with the findings of your party comrades or your co-workers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Never has such a blow on the Serbian Parliament been made. It is not true that Milosevic was doing this in the Serbian Parliament. Here are his MPs who are on the exam today, on moral and security, to come out here and tell them if they stole them like you, whether they forged them like you and whether they became the same as you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13081	By applying to apologize to the MPs and by asking who I represent, I represent the MPs, of course, please, because the MPs have chosen me and will always be so. So I made it clear and loud that unfortunately the explanation must be longer, and fortunately the Rules of Procedure do not limit it. I owe you an answer to the question you asked. So, if someone didn't think that I was accidentally incorrectly or incorrectly interpreting something, and based on what you said, clearly the president of Serbia in a letter with his signature says: on your letter 01 number 113902/04 of February 17th; therefore, the letter has been sent since February 17th, and with insight into the service, that is the following letter, which was signed, the law was sent after 20 hours. Since the congregation’s professional service is doing its job responsibly, it will not happen if they fail to seduce something when carrying a different institution. It was exactly seduced when the law was taken away, so it was taken away 18 after 20.00, and that's exactly why I informed it. I have also clearly interpreted what the Legislative Committee has proposed, and we will look at the stenogram, and I have said that on the subject of the amendments observed, the Legislative Committee has informed me, while also informing that some other amendments, not those that will only turn up, and I said that the professional service 18 has made it clear that there are two more members. Since the President of the Assembly is neither making a legal and technical correction nor being able to plead and amend the law, I have only met all the competent and expressed my willingness to introduce the sole competent professional service to anyone who confuses it. It's the only thing I could do. Are you satisfied with the explanation? You're not. The Assembly will be declared in voting day. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic, Mr. Stevanović, Mr. Krasic, we need to take a turn. There's one more thing, you called out earlier on that the Constitution is incomplete. That's what you said. I have called upon the only thing the Constitution foresees, the constitution foresees nothing more than the possibility that when the president returns to the vote, the Assembly of Votes. And if there was a possibility, we'd be looking for an interpretation. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13082	Mr. President, when you asked if we were satisfied, I could kindly give you advice, you needed an explanation to give in the presence of a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13083	I'll give you your time, Mr. Petrovic, but for God's sake, there's you, there's Mr. Ristic, there's no question.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13084	A paid lawyer, and you'll probably get a chance to do it in a decent place very soon. It's not just what Mr Nikolic said about the Management Board report. Before voting on the law on working in general, the president of the National Assembly interrupts the session's work and says, "So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted two amendments that are contrary during the vote on amendment 119. It is all right, only the Rules of Procedure provides that the Legislative Committee is to meet in this case and to declare which of these two amendments is to be adopted. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. "Mr Aligrudic comes out, after a while, and says--The Legislative Committee has discussed the amendment to Article 119. Proposal for a law and amendment to Article 94 It's a bill of law. And nothing more. So, Mr. President, you were telling a lie 10 minutes ago here when you gave an explanation of how the Legislative Committee dealt with the study of all the members you listed, and I want to say once again, that's Article 105, Article 108 and Article 118. The other thing, Mr. President, I don't know how to get into your office anymore. If you're recording everything that's going on in your cabinet, I suggest that the Security Committee, at the end of this session, open one session and determine who is filming MPs in this assembly and whose approval it is, and whether or not it's a criminal offence, because it's a crime, if the person who's being filmed doesn't know about it. I will repeat the proposal once again, I think it is of general importance that this session be terminated and that the Legislative Committee consider what this is all about. The president, and once again, returned the text so that you would act in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Law, because it was the only thing he could do, he got a forged text and nothing else was allowed to do with it. Otherwise, Mr. President, I think it's time for you to resign on your own and we wouldn't be dealing with this issue anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13085	Thank you for your advice. I need to give you an explanation. So I can't believe we don't hear each other that much. It is also clear that in reply to Mr Nikolic, you can consult a stenogram, I said, the Legislative Committee has sat down and informed the Assembly of these amendments in relation to the cohesion observed in the amendment. Then I said clearly that the professional service pointed out to me the next day of some other conflict. So, I didn't list any of them, and that's why I'm on the request of the president of the state, which is, I'm sure you'll take all the steps to determine who's responsible for this manipulation, because there are doubts about manipulation and that you will report it urgently. It has been reported urgently, and in this report, you have data based on the actions taken by the President of the Assembly, received a reply from the professional service, and there are members you mention. I wasn't talking about any member, not 105, not 103, that's easy to determine. Also, you're absolutely right, Mr. Petrovic, I apologize, I apologize to everyone, I fell for the statements I heard from Mr. Sutanovac and the others to record everything. I'm sorry, so it's not recorded, I accept, thank you. Here, of course, we stick to the exact order, Mr. Stevanović, Mr. Krasic, Mr. Sutanovac, and before that Mr. Aligrudić was. Mr. Aligrudic called before that, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13086	Two replicas, a replica to Mr Nikolic, a replica to Mr Petrovic, because I was mentioned as president of the Legislative Committee. I will therefore confirm that the Legislative Committee has withdrawn this opportunity to declare the possible contradiction of the two amendments to Articles 119 and 94. On that occasion, we have found, as is said here by some speakers, that one amendment to Article 119 is broader in its context and that the second amendment, which is narrow, is practically, contained in the wording of the amendment that is spread. What does that mean? This means, and when you read a stenogram you should read it to the end, we expect the professional service to comply with that text and apply the text to the law. If we're talking about form, not content, then that would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you're pointing out today, because then it was also good for the Assembly to make a statement that day. At that time, after my words entered the stenogram, no one noticed that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but they accepted it as something quite common and normal. Later, after that, what the Legislative Committee did not declare, it is a question of Article 118, which is obviously applied to the text of the law, and that is what I can say here as my own opinion, and that it has been applied in such a way, on the draft text of the law, that the essence of this amendment has not been compromised. Therefore, I repeat, this was not stated by the Legislative Committee. That's my opinion. And from that comes the next thing, we're replacing the essence form here, and the essence is something else entirely. The point is that MP groups of the opposition raced to help which to vote on certain amendments which they knew in advance to change the essence of the text of the law in such a way as to make it inapplicable, which is contrary to the interests of those citizens who expect this National Assembly to adopt applicable laws, and those who can contribute to improving their overall position. This is what the opposition parliamentary groups were dealing with, so they waited for motive and reason of formal nature to attack the president of the assembly and the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you've been working on, that's what you're trying to do today, when "Beti" was released news that Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj resigned on his duty, because the UN tribunal's indictment was received, 10 or 15 days before a positive assessment of the feasibility study, because both the parliamentary groups that are here, both the SRS and DS, are keenly seeking that this feasibility study is not passed, because it is in your political interest, and it is not in your political interest that this country has progress. The way you behave today, it is essentially contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13087	Mr. Stevanovic was up, although the replica was sought by Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Sutanovac. Parliament groups are mentioned, of course he has the right to reply, and only please, Mr Nikolic, allow me, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is requested by Mr Aligrudic. Be kind, as soon as Mr. Nikolic is finished, you will get, be kind. We're doing business, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13088	Mr. Aligrudic, it seems to Serbia that it is fortunate that what I do not agree with is that someone goes to The Hague, let's say this Haradinaj. Because if he had come to Belgrade, President Kostunica would have given him a pardon. For he gave pardon to the greater villains than Ramush Haradinaj, which he would not sign for him. Two thousand terrorists released Mr. Kostunica, I don't know where you're from right now to find a connection between the SRS and Ramush Haradinaj. Where do you get the right to even bring that into debate here? Now, since you're the chairman of the Legislative Committee, I think here you're trying to fool all of us into the next example of the president of the National Assembly. No matter what legal-technical order of the law by professional services. What kind of legal-technical order is that? They can't move it, they can't move it, they can change the meaning of what the National Assembly adopted. Legal and Technical Directorate, if you are reading the Rules of Procedure, it is done by the Legislative Committee, in collaboration with the committee responsible, and the amendment is conducted by a legal and technical order. There is no other legal-technical order, don't lie to Serbia. The president of the National Assembly of the 17th cannot sign a letter sending the law to go skiing without the 18th service sending him the law after the service has completed the legal and technical order. Now, if anyone's been to China or someone on the Bath, I'm not interested in it. Then your act to which the bill went and the bill to the President of the Republic is forgeries, nor did you send it. As long as you deceive the National Assembly. You discussed amendments to two other members and said that no amendments to the Legislative Committee were necessary, they were not opposed, the Assembly could continue to work. And that, Mr. President, is after the debate on Article 118. Don't deceive us. The amendments did not come to article 118 after Milos Aligrudic's report, but before. If you wanted to change, if you were not in agreement, Milos Aligrudić had a session of the Legislative Committee, which was when you did not remove the disagreement between members 118, 108 and those who changed on your own. This is about a rough fake. Please, Aligrudic, don't take part in this. You're a young man, you'll be recorded for all time. This is about a rough fake. Let the conconsequences of those who have done it, do not cover it, for the next day of someone's head will suffer because most of them can be created, who will do anything with anything. This is a constitutional solution, President of the National Assembly, and how the Constitution will imagine you forging the law, so that it may say - if the President of the Assembly forges the law, the Assembly does not have to declare it again. Where are you taking us?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic. But before that, let's go to the first explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no reason, I've seen everything, there's no reason to tear down the incorrect quotes and authority of this assembly and the authority of the President of the Republic. Let's stick to what the facts are. Please, once again, pursuant to Article 28, Mr Nikolic, the president of Serbia in a letter to the President of the Assembly says - please act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law and the Rules of Procedure, which are prescribed to act in a situation of failure to sign orders on the declaration and return of the law of the National Assembly. The president of the assembly acted under the letter of the law, which says explicitly, had no other options. Why, after 49 years, I haven't fooled anyone, and now I'm going to be very wrong about quoting some text. Just like it's not true that anyone can pardon the Serbian prime minister. It's not right for us to talk to the public, only the president of Serbia can give pardons, the prime minister can't, the president of the assembly can't. It's the only institution. Finally, according to Article 161, I have to give an explanation. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall, on the basis of the original text of the laws, other regulations and general acts or authentic interpretation, provide corrections in the text. Therefore, it has also acted as a professional service, if the question is on the basis of which, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, following an authentic interpretation of the competent ministry and the professional service. Here you go. Mr. Aligrudić, Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Krasic, Mr. Milan Markovic. It's all the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13090	So, a member of the 100th was injured by Mr Nikolic because my personal dignity, DSS MPs and the ruling coalition were injured. Of course, it cannot be said in a speech that was alluded to that I wanted to absorb any of the responsibilities. I didn't do it, and I'll never do it. If it is determined that someone is responsible for something that has not been well done in this House, I am the first to investigate it and that someone is responsible for it. There's something else. I have pointed out, you have heard very clearly, that when it was possible to respond for the same formal reasons to the report of the Legislative Committee compared to Articles 119 and 94, which was the only thing that was said on the Legislative Committee, which I accept, then you handled one logic, and later when you had to make a general political charm with the motives that I was talking about, then you react in another way. That's all I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13091	According to Business, Mr. Stevanovic, Sutanovac, Krasic, Petrovic, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13092	Mr. President, you're misusing your position by saying that Mr. Milan Markovic and I are not telling the truth about Article 118. That is why I ask you here in front of all MPs and for the sake of the public of Serbia to read the articles 118th and 120th in the proposed text and in this text of the existing one, and I ask you to also explain the procedure for changing the text, which has already been changed. Also, I doubt it, since I already have an amendment to myself, I know all of it, I suspect that you did it on purpose, that abuse, and that you consciously did it so that this would not be done properly, to please foreign mentors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13093	Mr. Stevanovic, the president of the assembly does not edit the text, and he intervened on the request of the president of Serbia and received a final professional clarification from the professional service. It shows that every position of the amendment has been entered into an adequate place, in order to respect the will of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13094	Mr. Chairman, this is a replica of your exposure from half an hour ago where you mentioned me, I don't know for what reason, it doesn't always mean it's funny and funny, and it's a propo of some conversation you said was working in your office. But what is essential is that this law voted in parliament did not even reach the president and the president could not sign it. The president got some other piece of paper that says "law," and he couldn't get the law back. The president has asked you to follow the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and to refer the law voted in parliament to the President of the Republic, not something that you have readjusted or whatever you have already done, I really don't know. I think that the proposal of the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr Dusan Petrovic, was adopted two years ago, would have already continued the work. Let the Legislative Committee be appointed to discuss these two laws, one law that you have given and another law that has been passed by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and to see if it matches in all the members, as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13095	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Orderly, Petrovic, Krasic. I apologize for the joke, Mr. Sutanovac, accept my sincere apology. Please, unfortunately, I have to comply with the request of the president of the state, who asked me to act in case the law comes back, not the request of the president of Mr Petrovic's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13096	There are two things. One thing is exactly what you're talking about, what the President of the Republic asked you to do. He asked you to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. You know, Mr. President of Parliament, the Constitution doesn't know the situation of counterfeiting the law by someone who works in the National Assembly. There is a legal gap, and in the case of a legal void, it must be done as the legal principles of the protection of the legal order require. Since I have, among other things, this difficult situation, that I work with other people from other parties on a new proposal for the Constitution, we will certainly put in place a provision that will regulate the situation, if someone gets the right to veto, how the competent authority acts if they get a forged law. There was nothing left for the President of the Republic when he found that there was a counterfeiting, but to inform you about it and to ask you to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. What does that mean, Mr. President, and what your interpretation is, we have now seen, because you place this forged law here in front of the Parliament, although it is impossible to vote on it. The other thing is what Mr. Aligrudic is talking about. How could this congregation, after its presentation on what was on the Legislative Committee, be made known to members 105, 118, and 108, who were later forged, when he informed the Assembly of what the Legislative Committee was doing with the members of 119 and 94. A little concentration and common sense to bring into this discussion. This parliament did not have the opportunity, because it could not know that in the next two or three days, after the end of the vote on the Law on Working in general, there would be a counterfeiting and could not be done by the team. Now this Parliament has the opportunity to interrupt this session and to see on the Legislative Committee what the true will of the MPs is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13097	Thank you. I have no intention of defending the Constitution. You yourself have found that the President of the Republic has asked for it, and I remind you, fortunately, we do not have that void, because no one has forged anything, but the professional service has informed the President of the Assembly about it, and he has forwarded that letter to the President of the Republic, and that letter has not been observed by the President of the Republic. I remind you once again, he was familiar with that. Fortunately, everything the Assembly has adopted is in law. I don't have any other option. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13098	The president of the National Assembly, by running this session, has made it possible for him to turn away from the main topic. I remind you that the president of the SRS parliamentary group has come out, advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and indicated that there are no conditions for this to be placed on the agenda. Please, in the other discussions that you've initiated here, you're running away from the essence. It will come to the agenda of the motion for resolution, and then this argument will go. There's been fakes before. I now point out to you the violations of the Rules of Procedure, above all Article 79, which says that the conditions for today's session to be held with this proposed agenda, as you imagined. We point out to you that the Constitution couldn't predict whether between the Assembly and the President of the Republic on that route, it would have been 50 meters, that something would have happened, which means the original was lost. You've injured Article 160, Section 2, where you say what the source of the law is. It is said that it is the text adopted at the National Assembly session. You admitted that what you sent across the street wasn't a source, it was a mix. Article 161 you have injured in terms of this session. It says - the secretary of the National Assembly, based on the original text of the law, etc., gives corrections to the errors that occur when a law is published on the basis of a reference. We have a situation here that has been said - what you delivered me is not the law. You're here to convince us about the texts. It's not the text, it's the problem that you sent is not the law. No one has the right, neither the possibility, nor the authority to change the text adopted by the National Assembly. In the process of passing the law, until the vote is fully voted, until the last vote, if any discrepancy arises due to the amendments adopted, the Legislative Committee stands on stage. We have a situation here to confess to counterfeiting. When it's said to be back for the vote, you're misreading it. That means that you could have sent some text and said -- the Parliament voted on it, the president knows that it wasn't on the agenda, the only thing left for him to do is to pay you back and that you, at the re-election, can vote on a law that wasn't at the National Assembly session. Of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia could not in its foundation imagine a falsification by the president of the National Assembly. Since he couldn't imagine, this formal return of the law should be interpreted in the sense of our Rules of Procedure. We don't have the law. Return that text to which the MPs voted and hold a vote on it. What you're giving is just surrogates and amnesia. I warn you, gentlemen, if you vote and by any chance pass this text which has been delivered in vain, behind which MPs, or the heads of the assembly majority, then it is the amnesty of the one who has executed the counterfeit... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... 'Cause everyone's going to say, "The Parliament voted again, the law passed." What law? Falsified law. We will not allow it, and we do not want to participate, and in this sense Mr Tomislav Nikolic has advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and everything else you have done has been aimed at stalling, blurring. And you've confessed to counterfeiting several times, right here in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13099	First Mr. Vlahovic, then Mr. Vukic. The 160th member I allegedly injured is not talking about the job of the president at all, but says (paragraph 4): "The creation of the original, sealing, keeping and registering of the originals is being handled by the secretary of the National Assembly. " (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I am not satisfied with the answer, let the Assembly declare itself. I would like to remind you once again, the reply of the section office of the Assembly, which was delivered to the President of the Assembly, was also delivered to the President of the Republic. Afterwards, the President of the Republic asked only to act as provided for by the Constitution and by law in the event of non-signature. Of course, the President of the Assembly has fulfilled it, there is no other option. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 100th position 1st and 2, and a matter of exposure to Mr Aligrudic. I completely understand the anxiety that exists at the so-called. The parliamentary majority, because it's getting smaller and smaller, getting thinner and thinner, is gone and if it wasn't sad, it would really be funny to accuse the opposition of voting the amendments to the members of the laws that were being discussed here, and not to pass the day that anyone from the so-called. The political ruling coalition does not praise its wide and comfortable majority. If you had a majority, then you'd vote the text of the law the way it was proposed. It is therefore incorrect to say that the opposition is guilty of voting the law proposed by the political coalition in power. It is even more incorrect to accuse the Democratic Party that it is she who does not want to receive the Performance Study, which would open the door of Europe for us, when you all remember very well, a year and a half ago, when it took us only two months to get a positive assessment of the Performance Study, you had no problem entering the collapse of that government, you had no problem having a bunch of legal projects, which had already been prepared, delayed indefinitely. It is a matter of political correctness to be consistent in political behavior. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, neither you nor the people of Serbia will ever have problems with the consistency of the Democratic Party. We speak very clearly what our political goal is, and when we are in a position, when we are in power, and when we are in opposition. We haven't changed our attitude just because we're in opposition. It is very clear that the Democratic Party is the engine of reform in our country and without the Democratic Party there is no Europe, there is no European Union and there is no better life and living standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13101	Mr. Vukic, Mr. Markovic is no longer registered under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have somehow come up with every topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although the topic was only one. Article 100 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because one of the MPs insulted the MPs, and the President of the National Assembly didn't say a single word about it, neither did he try to warn him. At the same time, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without a replica, commented on the words of Tomislav Nikolic concerning the political life of Serbia and the actors of the political scene. As for this one thing that was decided or to be decided here, the key question is, did you send a bill that was passed by the MPs or by some who weren't? You didn't send that bill. You falsified and committed a serious crime. That's where the story's over. Then a man comes out here who must be the head of power, the head of the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, and says, "You're all pretty crazy and silly, do you know that Beta reported that Haradinaj resigned?" What's that got to do with all this? How did that connect us to Haradinaj? In what way? Whether something happened to a man or not, I don't know what it was. Did we ever vote for Haradinaj? I know that all of you in power when you get together, when you go between Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, run, run, run, drive a car, so run, run, run, run, and some of your voters. I have to tell you, it doesn't make any sense, it's absolutely insane. Now it has something to do with Haradinaj and that you forged a law, that you stole the will of the Serbian citizens, the will of the MPs, that has to do with the Study of Performance. Now we've all agreed, some conspiracy of the world made to stop you, 15 days before getting a feasibility study. It's either something wrong with someone or you have such problems making your movie about what's going on in Serbia, you live in that movie, and you're just waiting for when to pass the vote. You may have a majority in the Serbian Parliament, it may be as thin and thick as it was before, but the majority of you in the people are so small and so thin that only the SRS, as the largest party in Serbia, has twice as much confidence in the citizens of Serbia as all of you combined. I know that many of you don't care at all. They're counting, it's another year, two, three, we'll take what we can get, we'll put it in our pocket. I don't know what that has to do with Haradani. To be honest, I didn't really understand everything that was said, but I have to ask, what was the shame? What should we be ashamed of? What's that supposed to be a shame for us? (President: Time. It's time for someone to answer that question. I guess about the Hague indictment against Haradinaj. What's this about? I have only one thing to say, and that is that this National Assembly is discussing this because of some frustration, because they've ordered those MPs who don't want one minister to defend himself with all their heart, because the godmother mafia has started ruling Serbia again, and you'll hear in a few days that the godfathers are involved and whose godmothers are involved in it. Godfathers will not be able to rule Serbia for long, the mafia and the gods will soon be down and freedom will arrive for Serbia, and you will talk about shame and shame to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13103	Here you go, Mr. Markovic. You're the last one registered by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, it is understood that everyone has the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, so that they can continue to report after me. I simply had to answer and take advantage of this right of reference to the violation of the Rules of Procedure for three minutes, not so much because Mr. Stevanović mentioned me again, but I think it is important, too, but I really want to remove any doubt that I have participated in any kind of discussion concerning the withdrawal of amendments or anything related to this labour law affair. First, I must admit that I am truly convinced, regardless of how today's debate ended, whether the ruling majority will simply vote this or not, that this will leave a lasting impact on parliamentary life in Serbia. I think there will certainly be some among us who, because of what is now going on, will either wear some kind of political stamp as long as they are involved in politics. Therefore, if some of the experiences of the near past were not enough to teach, I do not know what to teach enough to stop the ruling majority from acting in this way. What made me particularly confused is the way you, Mr. President, tried to answer Mr. Stevanovic's argument about the meeting I accidentally attended. I don't know what context you mentioned the recording in. I believe no one is filming anyone in the National Assembly. It would be really scary if someone was filming someone. Then the work of the National Assembly should be interrupted urgently, because working conditions do not exist if there is a secret recording. If there is a secret recording, it is, of course, necessary to terminate it, to establish responsibility, it is necessary to see who is recording it, whose knowledge, whose approval, etc. If there is no recording, I must honestly say that I do not understand what intention you mentioned this recording with, because I wish there was a video of the conversation that you and Mr. Stevanović were having. And Mr. Stevanović, and me, obviously we didn't want to say, I'm not going to go into the end of that conversation right now, but I'm going to tell you something that I've told many of my colleagues here -- I was shocked, really shocked, by the way you tried to convince Mr. Stevanović to withdraw the amendment. I didn't know if it was possible for you to know so much about the Constitution or if you were simply pressured so much by the executive authority that you succumbed and thus tried to convince Mr. Stevanović. So, what if Mr. Stevanovic agreed? What if Mr. Stevanović was paraphrasing? Well, it's no longer Mr. Stevanović's property. It's the property of this National Assembly. Mr. Stevanovic cannot change the will of the National Assembly. I wish there was a video so we could play it. It wasn't exactly how you represent yourself here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13105	Time certainly is, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13106	But I didn't mention the footage, you mentioned them, and that's why I'm saying this right now. I'm asking you as president something, and I'm asking the MPs who are ready to vote for the Labour Act again -- what are the National Assembly doing if you now vote this? What's to prevent any next government, any next majority, that when they don't like what was adopted in the National Assembly, they send a counterfeit to the president, the president returns and then votes that forgery. Imagine yourself well. This will have far-reaching consequences for our parliamentary life. And, I agree with that, I respect the old colleagues who have been in this parliament for a long time, and I am very happy that I have not fallen into some possible mistakes and traps of parliamentaryism in Serbia. (President: Time. ) I agree with a colleague who warned counterpart Aligrudic, whom I highly appreciate, to pay attention to how such political engagement will affect his future political life. I truly believe that Mr Aligrudic is not personally responsible for this and that he was also simply in a situation that is due to our overall system of government in Serbia, which is characterized by the incredible predominance of the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13107	Please, time's up a long time ago, be kind, finish up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13108	.... and executive powers over parliament. Here, I'm done. I really believe, despite my appreciation, that the mention of Ramush Haradinaj, Mr Aligrudic, and the study of feasibility, was not correct, because I think we are talking about a very important issue regarding the work of this Parliament. You're using arguments, you know it's like when it's March 9th... (President: Thank you...) Here I go. When the opposition demonstrated on 9 March, a video of the arms being carried out in Croatia is released on RTS. So it's a replacement of thesis, and I don't think it was correct, and in the end, knowing you, it certainly doesn't feel like that way of talking to you. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13109	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic, so I see Mr Jevtic, Mr Petrovic, and before that, the gentleman; no, you gave up, thank you. Just an explanation I owe you. So, please, Mr. Markovic, it is not required to withdraw the amendment, it is quite clear, because of the government's suggestion, which is the solution, what was the will expressed by the amendment. But since it's not something that's being discussed here, I remind you once again, I apologize, I apologized to Mr. Sutanovac for the joke. It's just, since the president of the assembly certainly has nothing to hide, I made a joke at the expense of one statement, and I apologize once again if I made a joke. But I hope everything is recorded, I say, because I have nothing to hide. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, and I beg your pardon for waiting, so Mr. Jevtic, so Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13110	Okay, we finally decided that the president of the National Assembly was not authorized to find the will, the motives, the initiatives of the MPs, especially when the debate on the law was over. But, Mr. President, you've just made a rough turn of what I've pointed out from this pay phone as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Again, I remind you of the beginning of this debate, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic very precisely pointed out what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was seen in. You conspired with us that you were proposing a agenda - a request from the president of the Republic of Serbia. Please, we have this letter that has two views. That's not a request. So it's not a request. Now, if this letter of 24 February 2005 by the President of the Republic is looked at, then in the first position, there is a surprise about the counterfeits. I translate that. And the following stance states that he is asking you to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's this yellow book. Furthermore, by law and by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure are a blue book, which is prescribed, pay attention - to the failure to sign orders on the declaration and return of the law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And you've conspired with us - a request from the President of the Republic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the law. As far as I can tell, he never asked to vote on the law again. He saw the situation in Article 181. The Rules of Procedure, but apparently he had to write members as well. In this situation, this is how it is handled: "If the President of the Republic of the Constitution does not sign an order on the declaration of the law (this has happened), which has been passed by the National Assembly, nor does he demand that the National Assembly vote again (as we see it, he does not demand to vote again) on the law it has passed, the President of the National Assembly informs the MPs. "So what you've invited us today, it's today to inform us that there's been a falsification. That's what you admitted. That part of the work we've done, and now we need to focus the debate, of course, since the agenda is established, and it should read - the falsification notice, and let's see who forged it, so that the Assembly can decide what to do next. But what you're pushing us for, it's amnesty, it's an ex post legalization of something the National Assembly didn't do. If you think you can do most of it, you can probably do it. But remember who said - with 70 votes and the country will be gambling. I didn't mention it on purpose, I know about... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... Three examples of a harsh forgery in some previous convocation, but that's what we'll talk about when it comes to your agenda point, that's our proposal for you to get rid of this duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13111	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here, that's how they get confused. The same thing in blue and yellow is essential to me, and the point is that the president of Serbia has made a claim that you have read, that it is followed the Constitution, in response to the request of the president of the Assembly to follow Article 84. Here you go, Mr. Jevtic, Mr. Petrovic, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to advertise Article 28's injury. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which says that the President of the Assembly is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and that the Secretary of Parliament is obliged to assist him and the vice-presidents in doing so. Several MPs have indicated that the original Labour Act, which was sent to the president of Serbia to sign it, is not in line with the Labour Act voted by MPs of the Republic Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13113	Mr. Yevtić, I'm sorry to interrupt. You've called for Article 28's injury and listed what he regulates. Article 28 doesn't regulate it at all. I'm really sorry... Be kind...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13114	You've injured Article 140. I would like to warn you that, in addition to the Rules of Procedure which you have injured in Articles 28 and 140, your act also contains elements of the criminal offence of the official position provided for in Article 242. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a member of the same law of 245, which speaks of the unwitting work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13115	Mr. Yevtić, are you looking for a violation of the Criminal Code or a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Quoting the Rules of Procedure, so the Assembly can monitor what you expose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13116	I just want to warn you. Since it is obvious that your behaviour contains the intention to put the Labour Act to the vote today, I ask you to settle a previous issue here before you do it here, precisely because your behavior contains elements of the crime. I want you to tell all MPs of this assembly and all citizens of Serbia whether your source, who you sent to the president of Serbia, is in line with the Labour Act voted by the MPs of this assembly, in accordance with the article. 105, 108 and 118.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13117	There is no need for me to inform the public twice about what the authorities and the president of Serbia and the public have told them exactly. It was not a press service from the parliament president's office, but rather the president of the assembly, in writing, counting precisely. Please focus on what we've said and what we've repeated many times. Here you are, Mr Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and then Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13118	Article 28. Rules of Procedure. It is very important that we fully clarify, both ourselves and the public. The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly provide for two situations in case the President of the Republic does not sign the law. The first situation was given in Article 180, and that member in position 2 clearly states: "If the President of the Republic of the Constitution requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law, the President of the National Assembly immediately delivers this request to the MPs... "The President of the Republic did not ask the Assembly to vote again on this law. The President of the Republic made it clear: "I ask you to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed to act in a situation of failure to sign the declaration." Article 181 clearly states: "If the President of the Republic of the Constitution does not sign an order on the declaration of the law, which has been passed by the National Assembly, or requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law it has passed, the President of the National Assembly shall inform the MPs." Now you, Mr. President-in-Office of Parliament, prove to this assembly and to your citizens who are following the transfer, where and when the President of the Republic asked you to vote again on this law. So, from 11 o'clock, and now it's 13:30, you're constantly untruely interpreting what happened, even though the legal situation is completely clear. That is why I again demand that you suspend this session and that the Legislative Committee establish all relevant matters relating to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13119	Mr Petrovic, referring to Article 28, I assume that, for whatever reason, you have not sent an explanation of the objection that this member has been injured, and the explanation also contained a letter to the President of the Republic, in which, what you are saying now, the President of the Assembly has already written to the President of the Republic, warning that it is possible for the Assembly to find itself in one position if it is not acted under Article 84. So, the President of the Assembly writes to the President of the Republic, rather than stating what is missing in that letter, and says, "This letter has put the National Assembly in a position not to know how to act, whether to vote again on this law, because you did not ask for it, or to expect that in some other way, which is not foreseen by the Constitution, you are dealing with the text of this law"? This sentence proves that the president of the assembly has made every effort to warn what can happen. In contrast, a reply came from the president of Serbia, who was forwarded, where he apparently by a ton of the whole letter sent to him, among other things, asked the president of the Assembly to follow the Constitution and the law. Since that's the answer to the president of the assembly, I quote what the president of the assembly wanted. So by letter, article 84 was severely injured. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Constitution allows you to request the Assembly to vote again within seven days of the adoption of the law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution does not allow you to, as stated in the letter, refuse to declare the law because you 'observed a coincidence' etc." Since, at the same time in this letter, a text that removes any suspicion by the authorities, that there is no counterfeit, rather than an explanation, the President of the Republic's reply says, "Please follow the Constitution and the law." I delivered to the Assembly both of them, so the text of the law and the request of the President of the Republic, and I have scheduled a session with the agenda on which we will, I don't know why this debate started earlier, only through a few votes, when we first decide on the urgent procedure and the proposals, discuss and put parliamentary objections, possibly, before the vote. So, it's not on the agenda yet, but I'm using the right of each of you to address the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the explanation, Mr. Petrovic? You're not. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13120	Mr. Markovic, it is obvious that you are advised by the Yugoslav-ge-seven-seven-seven-seat President of the Constitutional Court, Slobodan Vučetic, and that he introduced you without delay to defend the position that you can no longer defend. I have no intention of defending Boris Tadic. He usurped the seat of the President of the Republic, which belonged to me that year in the elections. According to his letters, he obviously didn't see what he was doing until the end. Mr. President of the National Assembly, I am going out the last time to confirm my request to remove this item from the agenda, because this would be the biggest delusion in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. You have invited us to this session to vote on the request of the President of the Republic that the Assembly declares one law again, and the President of the Republic says to you, "How am I until the expiry of the deadline in which an order on the declaration of the law should be made, you have not delivered the text of the Labour Act, I inform you that I will not sign the declaration order?" You didn't deliver the Labour Act to the President of the Republic. You delivered the text engaged in co-operation with ministers, finance ministers, labour ministers and your professional services. Don't lie that under article 161 the secretary has the right to perform legal-technical regulations. That's not true. The secretary can only perform legal-technical editorials of the published law, the correction, based on what was adopted, only what was published in the "Official Messenger", if it is not published in the text in which it was adopted. So if you vote this law again today, when it is published in the Official Messenger, the secretary will either make corrections, in accordance with what the Assembly has adopted, or he will fly from this place. Then he would be authorized to say - stop, people, this is not the text of the law adopted. He'd have to say. But you're so contradictory today, Mr. President, that your position is more like the one most valuable than all of us here, and we're even, you can't defend anymore. So please show that you have honor and dignity. Believe me, if you do today what any of the 250 MPs here would do, if you come down from there voluntarily and sit in the benches, and someone from your party sits up there, the people of Serbia will appreciate you more than if you remain in a place that doesn't belong to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13121	I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure don't predict that. Of course, Mrs. Comic, you'll get your word. I remind you once again, you probably didn't follow the explanation. So, with the text of the letter that he followed and, once again, the additional text of the law and clarifications given to both the president of the Assembly and the president of Serbia, the presidency received a letter signed by Mrs Drecun, where it is said not to have been delivered because of technical possibilities. I've quoted it to you, I suppose that explains this sentence enough in a letter that's lagging behind. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13122	Ladies and gentlemen, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in three members: 28, 140 and 181. I quote Article 28, what the President of the National Assembly is doing: he is doing the work provided for by the Constitution - broken; he is chairing meetings of the National Assembly - we will see; he is taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - broken; he is taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly - broken; he is doing other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. These other jobs should be clear at this session today. My question, noting that there is no wrong that can correct the majority vote, whatever it is, my question is, if you seem to have any confusion, why today and who prevented you from delivering to the MPs of the National Assembly today the text of the law per stenogram of the day to vote in this assembly and what you sent to Serbian President Boris Tadic. Who prevented you from having those two documents, on which we MPs have the right to have them, are today on benches in the National Assembly. What better way to explain what happened to the Labour Act? Article 140 has been broken in an explanation, never applied, and it may be applied in cases where amendments are made to members who are contrary to each other. Not once did this congregation receive a report from the Legislative Committee. You had room for it all day long to vote. You had room for it today, and you have room for it today. This isn't about whether you have 126 to vote on something this assembly hasn't decided on. This is about whether or not we want to take advantage of a completely understandable mistake, stumbling, political interest, trade, whatever you want, that needs to be peeled about this assembly. So should we use and prove that the opposition and the ruling majority share responsibility for this assembly. Our proposal is to interrupt this and schedule a session of the Legislative Committee, which is attended by MPs, on the subject of a stenogram text from the day of the vote, therefore, the adopted Labour Act as regards the will of this assembly and the text that you sent to the president of Serbia for the signing, and that is the way to the solution. Do not put this assembly in a position to vote by 126 MPs, and we know that you have agreed to do so, you produce wrongly. It's not a pity for the ruling majority, it's not a benefit to the opposition, it's a shame for the institutions whose responsibility we share together. Any kind of attempt to end the discussion of the Labour Law will be bad by the provisions of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13123	Time. Thank you. There is no reason to explain it, because I have given it on several occasions, and I thank you for confirming that I have met the Assembly with the request immediately, as well as of course I sent the Assembly the only text of the law. We're moving on. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for extending the agenda of the session. Before that, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on whose part?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13124	On your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13126	Ladies and gentlemen, it is said in Vojvodina that he confirms everything I said when it comes to violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr President, you are required to ask if I am satisfied with the explanation and to get my answer on whether my breach of the Rules of Procedure, spoken, goes to the vote in the voting day in the Assembly or not. I also understand that you are tired, understand, and that it is difficult to learn and try to defend indefensiblely, and to defend you illegally with legal flossules, poorly learned, but independently of that, you have just violated the Rules of Procedure in the most flagrant way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13127	Mrs. Komic, I most kindly apologized for not asking you, but I simply used your democratic feeling that you were equal with other MPs, so I realized that there had already been discussions about this member, since the answers were unsatisfactory, explanations, and it is natural that the Assembly would vote on it, so I didn't want to disturb you, because we are all equal here. That was the only reason. Are you satisfied with the explanation now? You're not. In that case, we'll vote in voting day. Thank you. (Gordana Komic: A new violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, that was an explanation. (Gordana Comic: The Rules of Procedure have been injured in the clarification. ) Mrs. Komic, this was an explanation with a question for you and I ask if you are satisfied. (Gordana Comić:The Rules of Procedure in Explanation have been injured. I'm sorry, I just did what you asked me to do, and that's to give you an explanation from the Rules of Procedure and to ask you, that's what I just did. I asked you, you said you didn't, but let's do it one more time. Here you go, another violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I hope you'll explain it to the MPs and make it clear to everyone, because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13128	Article 28 has been injured in an explanation given kindly by the president, and there is a way in which the labour law was falsified. The president gives himself the right to interpret whether my feelings are democratic or not, and I suspect that he would put it to a vote anyway. That is not how the assembly is governed, Mr President, the laws are not sent to the president of Serbia. Thank you. You don't have to explain it to me, and you don't have to put this last injury to a vote, you can do whatever you want with 126.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13129	Thank you and forgive me once again for thinking your feelings were democratic, I withdraw. Suggestions to consider an emergency procedure. A group of 104 MPs from the SP-NS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on fiscal registers, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against 117, five of 240 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The governor of the National Bank of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia be put on the agenda for a decision to confirm the Statute, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 39, against 132, 69 of the 240 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic -- suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 January 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 242, against one of 243 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on the Election of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 February 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 80, against 130, they did not vote 33, of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested that the draft law on the rights of the defendant who voluntarily surrendered to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2005, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 79, against 109, abstention 23, he did not vote 31, of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 22 MPs of the SPS MPs suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda A proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 110, against 107, with nine abstentions, it did not vote 16 out of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 81, against 106, with 12 abstentions, they did not vote 43, of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. We've completed our statement on emergency procedures. We now have proposals to expand the agenda. 1. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS, suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a motion for the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Predrag Markovic, number 118-567/05, as of 1 March 2005, submitted by the MPs of the SRS group, and that the item be placed on the agenda as the first item of the agenda. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? Here you go. The day-to-day changer shall have the right three minutes to, according to Article 87. Rules of Procedure, explain your proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13130	I don't know how you got that right to tell me what I'm entitled to in the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand that at all. I asked for a word, you gave me a word, what are you explaining now, are you ashamed to give me your word? I'm not looking for anything the Rules of Procedure doesn't give me, but I'm not giving you any of what the Rules of Procedure doesn't give you either. I thank the MPs who participated in the debate on the 1st item of the agenda. I think it will bring fruit when we determine the agenda in general. I think that the MPs, who now decide on this autonomously, have heard enough arguments why we must not allow more in our name to speak, travel, represent us, sing, play, jump, lead the sessions of the National Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, because each of us individually has more moral integrity than in him who represents us. Mr. Predrag Markovic dared forge the bill adopted by the National Assembly. I'm deliberately saying he's falsifying. I think that he was falsified by others, now hiding and sheltering, now you're silent, he took Predrag Markovic on himself, on his shoulders, and his interest in this point of the agenda that he was carrying out the conventions. It's easier to defend him in the Assembly, he left the impression of a man who loves to care for democracy and to mention it, but the real culprits are the ones who changed the law, the finance minister and the labour minister. And especially the finance minister, who still had an extra dose of cynicism, told the president's service that they had amended the law. That's how it went that night. At the same time, you all know that this has been the case, at the same time it has not been taken to protect the MPs of the G17 Plus group, they said they will not vote for this law when the President of the Republic returns it, showed the involvement of the G17 plus in this counterfeit. This morning I heard they'd vote again for this bill, but you have nothing to vote on. This is what we're going to have to raise our daughters to God's judgment. If you do this today, if you do this in the National Assembly today, I guarantee you, eventually this will all be revealed. I know how worried you are, because you will vote against conscience and against will, and against your morals. You drowned in collective immorality. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly, so that 126 Members of the People do not choke here for your sake, release them from this burden. Now resign. If you didn't write this, you were skiing, you're carrying the blame, because you're responsible for every act that comes out of the National Assembly, you didn't run your business well, you trusted others, they played that trust. Please submit, Mr. Markovic, that resignation is much better than the conscience of many people being removed, because it will defend you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13131	Thank you for your explanation. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 110, against 127, six out of 243 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 2. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point -- a motion to vote for mistrust of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, number 02-566/05, as of 1 March 2005, which was tabled by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and that the item be placed on the agenda as the second item of the agenda. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? Here you go. I'm fulfilling my obligation once again, I have to inform my member, I just did it, but it's the same member. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a request of the same motion for a vote on the removal of the president of the National Assembly. It is about the same ideology, the same political being, the same way of thinking and the same harm per country of Serbia. The damage that Predrag Markovic will do to us, if you vote again for the Law on Labour in the National Assembly, has already been done in his own way by the Minister of Finance and the part of the G17 Plus Group. I am sorry that those I have already recorded as the greatest evil for Serbia are mostly outside the assembly benches. The fate remains for Serbian defences of people who do not participate too much. I would like you to take the courage once, not to make me look for 126 votes here to discuss the finance minister, but to put it on the agenda, as a normal request, a team before, Mr. National Assembly President, which would have avoided this point of the agenda if you had respected the Rules of Procedure and asked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to report to us on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, he is required to do so at the request of the Assembly, at the request of the Committee, and once a year without a request. I see, ministers take pictures at press conferences. It's nice and easy out there. There he boasts, and in the debate journalists do not participate. Where there are debates, where there will be criticism, there are ministers who do not come. Since the government does not want to respect its obligation to report to us, that several ministers, among them the most responsible finance minister, file reports on their work, have prepared extensive material. Save a lot of material to defend him, if he really deserves to be defended. Do not defend him by not arguing about him, but dare we enter into the fight with arguments, that we make arguments as to why he is ruining Serbia, and that you say that he is raising Serbia, that we say that he robbed himself and how he puts money in his pockets. Let's tell you that he's closing small neighborhood shops, that some others would benefit from it, how he closes banks, that others would benefit from closing him and his company Jelasic's insurance companies, so that others would benefit, that the picture with those of whom he benefits. And let me tell you that the defense, which I hear from him is that the most important discipline, fell together after Hitler.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13133	Thank you for your explanation. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 113, against 128, two of the 243 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. 3. National MP Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, and MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, have tabled identical proposals that suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point - a proposal for a no-confidence vote by Minister of Education and Sports Slobodan Vuksanovic, No. 02-4175/04, since 30 December 2004. The year, which was submitted by a group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and that item should be placed on the agenda as the third item of the agenda. Do the MPs Markovic and Nikolic want a word? No, thank you. Here you are, for your own sake, Mr. Nikolic. Ambassador Markovic said no, thank you. I always speak for myself and answer for myself, even when I represent the congregation. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13134	I'm saying Predrag Markovic needs to be removed, and you don't want to talk about it. He can't turn on the button. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not open too much debate over this proposal. You'll see how serious this is. I thought that after our initiative, the Minister of Education would think about it, I thought the Prime Minister would think about it. You've changed one minister of education because of your personal convictions about the world's creation. The second with the wrong personal beliefs, the more tragic by the Serbian people and the Serbian language, you don't change. But just so you know, not only can't a Bosnian language be introduced to class, there's no Bosniak language. There's a standard I won't mind you because science says that Croats, Serbs and modern Bosniaks, former Muslims, speak the same language, but that they have different language standards. [[Louds from the bench: That's where you resented me.]] The minister of education could have asked us to grant him the introduction of a Bosniak language standard in the Serbian language, but the minister dared to import our Bosnian language. The language the Bosniaks in Bosnia speak cannot be called Bosnian in Serbia. The consequences would be tragic. Therefore, I ask you to put this on the agenda, to inform you of the position of the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, which is not only the board of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, but also the Committee of the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts and the Committee of the Academy of Science and Arts of Republika Srpska. Please pay attention to this. He's a young man. I think there's still time for him. Help him now, until he makes a much bigger mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13135	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 112, against 127, they did not vote three out of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for an emergency procedure and proposals for extending the session's agenda, I would like to put the draft agenda in general. The 131s were not voted by three of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The request of the President of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Labour Act, 2. A proposal for a decision to elect members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic. Work on the established agenda of the session. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Between 10.00 and 16.00 hours a break is given from one hour and we will give it between 10.00 and 18.00 hours. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – REQUIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY, APPLICABLE TO MEET MEMBER 84. I remind you that at the session of the First Extraordinary Session in 2005, held on 17 February 2005, the National Assembly adopted the Labour Act. You have received a request from the President of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 84(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Labour Law, as well as the text of the Labour Law. The president of the Republic stated in his request "that he was not given the text of the Labour Act adopted by the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but rather the text that does not correspond to what the MPs voted for", and as "until the expiry of the deadline in which the order to declare the law was to be passed" he did not receive the text of the Labour Act, he informed the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the declaration would not be signed. I remind you he's a member of 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the President of the Republic declares the law within seven days of its adoption in the National Assembly. In that time, the President of the Republic may request that the National Assembly vote again on the law. Also, Article 180(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are laid down that, if the President of the Republic of the Constitution requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law, the President of the National Assembly shall immediately deliver the request to the MPs and put the law on the agenda of the next session of the National Assembly. In line with the above provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I place the Law on Labour on re-election. For 130, of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, in its re-vote, has re-voted the Labour Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Democratic Party - Boris Tadic. I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Markovic, want a word? He's not here. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no written statements, before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for a decision in general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for this decision, I am determining that the vote is due on 8 March 2005, at 14.07 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, we approach the vote on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic. For 128, against one, they did not vote two out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since the National Assembly has also made a decision on this item of the sitting agenda, according to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, but before that we have a vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 11:45 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 100, 2, 28, 180 and 181. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, they did not vote three, a total of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Petrovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 11:50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, two, a total of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Stevanovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 11:55 p.m., pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, did not specify a member. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 11.57 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, two, a total of 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Ristic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.00 hours, pointed to a violation of a member who established the obligation of the National Assembly president to make an explanation on the basis of Article 96, following a reference to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Ristic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.20 p.m., pointed to an injury. 46th and 160th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 127, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 181. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, three of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Petrovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.38 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 127, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100, you gave up, but still voted, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. One, against 125, was not voted by three, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Stevanovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 12.52 p.m., pointed to an injury, not citing a member of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 13 o'clock, pointed to an injury. 79, 160 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, three of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 13.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 100, 1st and 2nd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Petrovic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 13.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 125, they did not vote three out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. We have two more injuries pointed to by Mrs. Comic. National MP Gordana Komic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 13.35 p.m., pointed to an injury. 28, 140 and 181. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Gordana Comic, at a session on 8 March 2005, at 13.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the president of the National Assembly did not give an explanation for its previous reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has made a decision on the agenda points of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. (The session is closed at 14.20 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13136	The second session of the first Regular Session on 8 March 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.20 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going to take a break very soon, we've got a little more. On the basis of Article 38(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 212 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I have no notice that some MPs have been prevented from attending the session. This session, which has been presented to you, contains a proposal for a single-point session agenda, namely: Termination of duty, resolution and selection of judicial function holders. We move to the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129 out of a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Stop duty, SECURATION AND CHOICE OF LAWAL FUNCTIONS At the same time I would like to inform you that Mr Bosko Ristić has been authorised for this point in front of the DS parliamentary group. For this item of the agenda, you have received the following draft decisions: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with correction, No 118-541/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with correction, No 118-613/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Urosevec, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of the public prosecutor’s office, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 5. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, with a proposal for a decision to supplement the draft decision, No 119-111/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 6. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, number 119-53/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 7. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, number 119-3865/04, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 8. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-3866/04, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 9. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-3807/04, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 10. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3687/04, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 11. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-395/04, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-275/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. You received notice from the High Council of Justice: - to withdraw the proposal for the election of Veselin Mrdak to the district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade - that Ivana Rackovic gave up her application for a judge's election at the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, - that Marija Sušljević has dropped out of her application for a election for the deputy member of the republic's public prosecutor. In addition, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions on the selection of judicial holders. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MPs of Committee members Bosko Ristic, Milan Markovic and Slobodan Vukovic issued an opinion on the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, a proposal for a decision on the election of the president of the courts, a proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors and a proposal for a choice of deputy prosecutors. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – three hours 16 minutes 48 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – two hours six minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – one hour 28 minutes 48 seconds, G17 plus – one hour, 14 minutes 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 43 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 52 minutes 48 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPO MPs and three SDP MPs, by five minutes, on the basis of Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, until the opening of the search. I'm taking a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since we have a quorum for work, according to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Lazarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my honor to be here today in parliament in front of the Serbian judiciary, but I must conclude that it is a pity that this session has not been long before, because there are dozens in each day of delays in the selection of new judges, even hundreds of pending cases. The High Council of Justice, as proposing the election of the president of courts, judges and prosecutors, was formed in this assembly in June of last year. We immediately established the criteria we published at the first session and delivered them to the members of the Committee on Justice of the Assembly. Based on these criteria, we have made these proposals and, by our conviction and conviction, these proposals are quite good. I have to say, about the High Council of Justice, I've had certain objections, or I wanted to do it in a different way, but it wasn't verified on the High Council itself. In addition, I suggested that a meeting of members of the High Council of Justice and the Justice Committee be held, in order to bring as few disputed candidates as possible. But what it is. I think there must be better co-operation between the Justice Committee and the High Council in order to make the proposals quite good. As I said, on the basis of these established criteria, which are available to all of us, we made this choice, that is, to propose candidates. It may be possible to accept the observation that no detailed explanation has been given for each candidate, but given that it was necessary to select a large number of judges, I ask this Parliament to put the choice of judges and prosecutors on the agenda during this work and in the future, when it comes to the High Council of Justice, regardless of the opinion that a large number of judges and prosecutors exist, while such legal regulations and this kind of mentality are not enough for us, nor is this existing number of judges. In addition to today's or tomorrow's, when this election is over, we will have a situation that in many courts we lack a large number of judges, so there will be proposals for new elections. I would ask that in the future when it comes to, since both decisions will be discussed today and the end of the office of judges, and especially when it comes to the completion of the working century on these two basiss, the termination of the judicial function relates to the day of decision-making for purely practical reasons. In the end, I would ask that our proposals be adopted, so that the judiciary can work, and we of the High Council are here to give any further answers to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13140	Thank you. Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs who have given their opinion want a word: MP Bosko Ristic, MP Milan Markovic and MP Slobodan Vukkovic? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13141	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, respected representatives of the judiciary, as an MP and member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, I have singled out my opinion on the proposal to elect public office holders in the prosecution and courts. Since the process itself and the process was past the law and, in my opinion, past the Constitution, we believe that the High Council of Justice itself is not legitimate to propose and decide candidates for judicial functions, above all because of the composition. The High Council of Justice consists not only of elected and elected persons, but also of those appointed. Those are, first of all, acting presidents. That's two members. That is why I believe that this composition of the High Council of Justice is a basis for political pressures, and I believe that during these proposals there have been and that this has resulted in very poor solutions offered, which the Assembly should declare. In addition, I believe that there is unsurpassed dualism, one in accordance with the Constitution, and the other in accordance with the set of law on justice. According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it is the Assembly that elects prosecutors and judges, and in order to make a choice that means that the High Council of Justice must offer at least two candidates. This way, the Assembly through the board of directors can only challenge one of the candidates, which ultimately has no legal consequences, as all proposals come to the Assembly for a plea. In addition, we heard in the presentation of the esteemed predecessor, V.D. The President of the Court, that the reasons for proposing individual candidates have not been given fundamentally. We received an explanation of the criteria used when proposing individual candidates, so we had a large number of candidates who had studied for a very long time, had a weak norm or statistics on performance in the work, because their worksheet showed that they did not represent those who should progress in the judiciary. However, those who have a longer period of study have been selected; in some cases, some have had longer periods of study than they have had the length of work experience in the judiciary. That's what we ordered. Unfortunately, we were voted on by the Justice Committee. In addition, it also notes that the Justice Committee does not have any communication with the High Council of Justice. If two branches of government, both legislative and judicial, do not communicate, unless the Justice Committee influences, in accordance with the legal powers, the work of the High Judicial Council on settlement, planning what will be held at the High Council of Justice session, unless it discusses the needs of the Serbian judiciary, then such a lack of communication will result in a very poor choice, i.e. negative selection. The Justice Committee has no insight into the real state of justice in Serbia. First of all, because there are no reports of a state of justice. The second question is what individual members of the Committee, given the profession they are dealing with, have direct insight into the situation and I can say that it is a very bad situation in the judiciary, there are poor salaries, there is a poor status of judges and that a very large politicisation of the High Council of Justice has been carried out lately, which should essentially represent the highest independent judicial authority. I think this big, maybe the biggest choice of judges and prosecutors since World War II is, in this package, very much subject to politicisation and party influence. I believe the proposed solutions have just indicated that one party in the government has a dominant impact on the situation in the Serbian judiciary, which is a bad basis for judicial reform, which we all agree on is necessary. I don't think the reform embryo has yet been revived in the Serbian judiciary and there is sufficient democratic capacity within the internal reform judiciary itself, and on the other hand, there are pressures that channel these reforms in an unwanted direction. These are some of the remarks we made. One of the essential remarks I want to make here before the Assembly as a member of the Committee on Justice – and later as a representative of the parliamentary group, I will talk about the situation in the judiciary and the proposed choice – is that the Committee on Justice has no communication with a member of the High Council of Justice elected by this Assembly. Mr. Tomic, professor of Law School, is a representative of the Assembly of the High Council of Justice. However, the Justice Committee did not have any meetings with its member of the High Council of Justice. This means that he is not invited, which is then the burden of the president of the Committee, to invite our member in the High Council of Justice, or that I am our member of the High Council of Justice, who was elected by this assembly and whom the Assembly represents the basis for his views in the High Council of Justice, has no interest in communicating with this authority and with this highest legislative body that has chosen and delegated him in some way. Therefore, our representative should be heard and heard of the objections and suggestions that we, as members of the Justice Committee, make. I'm sorry I overstepped time, but I thought this was complete and needed to be explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13142	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Markovic has issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13143	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, honored guests, I have also delivered an opinion at the session of the Committee on Justice and Management for this decision, which is the agenda today. The reasons for disseminating opinions are numerous and I will in these five minutes, or if I succeed even shorter, explain why I have singled out my opinion. First of all, I think that through the work of the Justice Committee and through this process of elections that we have had in the last few months, all the weaknesses of normative solutions, or solutions adopted in this assembly in 2002, have been shown. I therefore believe that what has been heard several times in the meetings of the Committee on Justice, which is an urgent change in legal solutions, a change in the way the High Council of Justice works, the public in this work, the public in the process and clearly established criteria, something that we must work on urgently, in this assembly or in another assembly of parliament. The second thing, the second topic is an obvious lack of criteria. We, as the Justice Committee, have not had a chance to determine which criteria the High Council of Justice has conducted when deciding which candidate will be proposed to the National Assembly for the holder of high and honorable judicial functions. This was seen in both the material we received and the presentations of representatives of the High Council of Justice at the session of the Justice and Administration Committee itself. I believe that as responsible people, we cannot decide on the basis of just two or three sentences behind the names of candidates, which refer to basic biographical data: years, date of birth, where the law school was completed and, indeed, very much, the movement in service. We also believe that, and we have repeated this repeatedly, that a certain politicisation of the judiciary is being carried out in Serbia under this government and that this choice will give it an even greater swing for the holders of judicial functions. In the end, it is not only the government's pain that simply gives rise to the impression that political elites in Serbia are inevitably, sooner or later, resorting to, or surrendering to, the weakness to control what is not to be controlled. We believe that the Justice Committee itself is also in a position that is inappropriate to the working body of the Assembly. The question arises as to how many sets of justice laws we have adopted in accordance with the Constitution and with the Constitution established by the National Assembly that the National Assembly chooses the holders of judicial functions, because simply the term "choose" itself implies a choice between several candidates. This is how it could be said before that we are giving some kind of consent to what was the choice of the High Council of Justice. I must say, independently of this, that despite the fact that the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration is sincerely trying to improve this position of the Committee on Justice and Administration (and certainly there is some progress in this respect compared to the first six months of this parliamentary majority), I think that, however it sounds, but I would like to be denied by colleagues who participated in the work of the Committee in the previous meeting, then had a slightly more dignified role, to a large extent, a decisive role, even under these legal solutions. I think that the National Assembly and the Committee on Justice and Administration should certainly be elected for a different position, because yet, the final word is given by the National Assembly and it is responsible for who will be elected as the holder of the judicial office. Fifthly, as we all became some sort of party settlement and politics or party interests by prevailing in every segment of social life, so is this in these working bodies of the Assembly. Now someone can say - well, it's normal, it's a national assembly, but in these working bodies, first of all, you need to hear the profession and these discussions should have a certain degree of competence, a certain measure of professional and responsible analysis of the topics being discussed. I must say, unfortunately, on our Justice Committee, it still comes down to a simple count and a determination of the majority during some elections. It sometimes seems absurd to challenge and, conditionally speaking, a sending atmosphere in the work of our Committee, but it is something that certainly does not serve us, all together, as members of the Committee, or the National Assembly whose working body is represented by the Committee on Justice and Administration. In the end, this choice was followed by a large number of objections for legal holders. These are the objections of the professional public or the public in general, and among the holders of judicial functions themselves, of course, those who are dissatisfied with the fact that they are not candidates and those chosen this time. However, I think the scope and argument given when making these remarks, both in public and directly sent to us by the Committee on Justice and Management... (President: Time.) I'm done. I think that all of this should have led to perhaps a little more serious, more detailed, more responsible work of the Justice and Administration Committee, in order to avoid the doubt that is now undisputed over the work of the High Council of Justice, the Justice and Administration Committee itself, the Minister, the Ministry of Justice and, in the end, the National Assembly. Thank you. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13144	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've seen that we of the DS have been restrained and we've issued an opinion. I'm glad that a few words pointed out about it, not explaining our position but his position, V.D. President of the Supreme Court Mr. Janko Lazarevic. I'm sorry that he hasn't elaborated any more in front of you this situation, this situation that exists in the High Council of Justice. He said he wasn't happy with it, but I wish we'd heard a little bit more detail, because he's chairing that advice and he could tell us a little bit more. But we of the Justice Committee that monitors the situation in our judiciary are also not satisfied with the High Council of Justice. We see that the arguments given are equal for all candidates, and then suddenly one candidate who is proposed, and we don't know why he's proposed. There's no reason why it's better, and from the material that we have we see that it's even weaker, at least according to those parameters that we've given us and the ones we have. They're very scarce. Often they contain only where anyone was born, what he ended up doing, and how he moved in the ministry. That's not enough and that's why we've singled out an opinion. We simply can't decide on individual candidates because we don't have enough information on that. I have to say, that's what I said on the Justice Council. The court is like an opera – it doesn't matter what building it's in, or what it looks like, it's important who sings. If there are high-quality people out there who know their jobs, then we have a good judiciary. If they're not quality, if there's a familiarity, if there's a party interest, then that's not right. I don't think the way we choose our judges is good. It is not good for judges to choose only the majority in parliament. Then a party choice is necessary. In the future, the Law on Courts or the Constitution, which we intend to bring, would require the two-thirds majority to be elected by judges. The opposition must also be asked to reach one consensus between the ruling parties and the opposition, because these judges judge everyone, and those who are in power and those who are in opposition. We're all interested in independent justice. So the election, reelection and recall should be resolved by a two-thirds majority. We just want to improve the lives of our courts and trials, and we're not doing anything to reform the judiciary. As judges are now being elected, I was a witness, they were elected in 1992, when Milosevic's rule was and when we were in a large minority from the opposition; there were then 30 MPs of the opposition, even less, at that time, that was how it was imposed, then it was chosen. So, as it was done in socialism, Communism, it's continued now. The special issue is the situation in Belgrade, where we have returned the entire proposal of the High Council of Justice to declare all municipal courts and the district court again. Then we got back, and in a very short time, the same candidates, without any explanation. There were speeches that our representative, Mr. Professor. Tomic did not find it appropriate for him to come to the Committee on Justice, so that our whole legal situation is at an air-conditioned level and I think that he ruins the dignity and those judges who have values, which are proposed to be elected, because they are not proposed in one procedure that is worthy, dignified and which provides certainty that they are indeed proposed in one way that will justify their performance. A special story is military courts (I see my time running out), which is now being introduced by the new system to us. Now judges who were judges of the military court are re-elected to the so-called. Military departments. What the SCG Assembly has done, that it has abolished military courts, is that we do not have it, because in Serbia, we have reintroduced it into the military judiciary again, not just the military judiciary, the non-execution of criminal sanctions on military persons, etc. I don't think there's a step forward in reform, and I think that's for every conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-08-0.u13146	Thank you. In accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure, the meetings of the National Assembly and its committees are public. I received a notice from the Third Programme of National Television that since 17.00 hours, the transmission of the basketball game ULEB cup between "Ventspils" and "Hemofarm" has been scheduled, and means that there has been no transmission for two minutes now and for this reason, working on the Business, we will request an end to this session. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to inform the representatives of the motions for a decision voted today by the Assembly (this is a decision to replace the members of the DS Committee) that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the section office of the Assembly on two sides of the decision, which was voted on by 30 errors, has corrected all errors by legal and technical regulation, so that everything is fine and is certified by the secretaries and, as always happens, will be published tomorrow. You can replace your members based on the Parliament's decision. I couldn't find Mr Petrovic to consult, he came out. Thank you very much. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
