ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16625	Here we've been reporting to the Rules of Procedure about different things, less significant than the one I'm about to say. We had a chance to hear the news, and here are the agency news with me, that US President George Bush has signed a declaration on granting trade preferences to Serbia-Montenegro. I have to say that's one of the most wonderful news we've ever heard during this year, probably the most significant news since the Performance Study. This is the practical integration of our country into a system of countries that fall under the general system of preferences. So it refers to about 4,600 products from 144 countries. With us it will be very important for metallurgy, especially for steel and even some colored metals. Therefore, this can be a direct incentive of production in our country, simply something that can currently be reflected, in economic terms, for improvement, for our country's economy. However, this also has an important special political importance, as it is an incentive not only to the European Union countries to co-operate with our country, but also to international financial institutions for further and deeper co-operation with Serbia-Montenegro, especially Serbia. What I must point out is that, first of all, this is the result of the persistent and consistent policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in relation to all the other authorities in this country, and that in this way this represents a kind of result, which is for every kind of praise. Of course, the feasibility study, on the one hand, as I said, represents a very important moment in the accession process and will bring very good results to this country on a longer term, and this decision by the United States, which we have been able to enter, represents something that will be significant immediately and immediately. So, both for the country's economy in one part, in another sense and for what is called a political incentive to international institutions to co-operate with our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16626	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. A few more important announcements, so they can work more easily on parliamentary groups. Therefore, a review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act will begin, then the next item of the agenda will be the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Publishing Law, as the draft law on the protection of citizens has also been withdrawn from the procedure. Also, I ask that the break be by 10.25, so that the minister will address us, so that he can then, for a short, five minutes, on the Committee accept two amendments, if I understand correctly from his announcement. Did I get that right, Mr. Lalovich? Approval. ) In order to be able to work effectively, at the same time notification from the professional service, already printed copies of the Rules of Procedure will be available within one hour, one copy at a time, while multiplying and connecting, in all MPs, so that we can use it more easily. Thank you, break to 10.25 hours. [[After break – 10.25]] We're continuing our work. We move to the 39th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendments Law and SUPPLEMENTS OF WORK LAW You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any member of the SPO, four SDP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. Does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16628	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, there is before you a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. When the law was adopted in addition to all the controversy, then I pointed to two important things, which is that there are contradictions in the law and that we should remove it from the first next occasion. That is the basic reason why we amend the Labour Act. I'd remind you of where the contradictions were. In the treatment of a warm meal and regression, a contradiction occurred in two members and in one more place. So here we propose to remove these two contradictions. In addition, there are only a few amendments, which are not of such capital importance, but that is the essence of the proposed amendments to the Labour Act, simply to grant it to the end. I would also like to give one more piece of information to the MPs, as well as to the public, since before this session, I was asked about it, as information, and we will discuss this, that it is addressed to the government today to propose a bill linking the work experience in Serbia. Just that much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16629	This is good news. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, was submitted only by the SPS parliamentary group, and the SRS, meanwhile, arrived. So again, they submitted proposals to discuss the SPS and SRS parliamentary groups. The first has the word of the MP of the people, Milisav Petronijevic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable ministers, if we come from the reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, and I will be brief on this, it is clear that the adoption of a number of amendments by Members of the People has resulted in the adoption of the laws being contrary to the provisions of certain members of the law. The opposite of the provisions of the law exists in the part relating to the arrangement of other labour-based incomes, work-related eating fees and the regression for the use of annual leave, as well as the exercise of the right to cease employment because of the failure to achieve the results of work by employees. For those reasons, amendments to this law are proposed. The first reason why amendments to the Labour Act are proposed are the opposites. The second reason why the amendments to the Labour Act, as stated in the explanation, are proposed, is: "It is done to specify individual solutions in the Labour Act, such as the duration of maternity leave and leave due to child care, in cases where a woman who is employed in the first birth gives birth to three or more children, as well as an employee who has one, two or three children, and in the next birth of two or more children, in order to ensure the right to that leave for two years in total and for these women". This was given in an explanation as a reason for amending the law, I repeat, in order to remove contradictions and to specify the provision of the law, in particular Article 94. If we look at this argument, the reason it's listed in the explanation, there's no dispute. Obviously, the opposites that exist must be removed and clearly what is not precise enough must be precise. I note this because this applies to the members of 118 and 120, who are the opposite of each other, then to the members of 179 and 190 of the existing law, and I already said to Article 94. The changes in the law in these members deserve absolute support. We will support, with the note that some solutions are not good to the end, but if you look further at the text of the amendments and the addition of the Labour Act, you can see that they are not just those changes. In particular, Articles 62, 77, 94 (additional Article 94a), 108, 111, 158 and 191 are also amended. We need to talk a little bit and see what this is about. So, in addition to these members who are opposing and who are not controversial, I ask the question, which is why other members are being changed, if it is already the reason for the changes in the Labour Act that I was talking about, because these members are not contrary. I believe I'm going to get an answer. I've often received it for the sake of the employer's financial discharge. We can no longer accept that argument and that the burden of reform, the burden of transition, are borne by those who otherwise live hard and hard. We can't accept any more that all the burdens are simply borne by those who either can't get a job or get a job, and then they get fired from work, or if they do, they're terrified about their jobs, or if they're done working, they're worried about what's going to happen to them next with their pensions. For these reasons, you need to take a closer look at the next one, I'll take the lead. So I'm asking the government, if we already have information that the budget has a surplus, then that's why a time hole is being made from September to the end of the year. Namely, amendments to Article 94. The law, and by adding Article 94a, this clarification is still ultimately foreseen to apply from 1 January 2006. At first glance, it is not controversial, but one dilemma appears. From March to August, if this law is passed, those who have begun maternity leave will have two years. So, from September to the end of the year, he's going to be a year, and from the new year again, he's going to be two years. Is it necessary for the government to create such a time hole and what a financial effect it is, because I don't think that's good and that this solution is not acceptable as far as the government is concerned? I really don't see why those who go to maternity leave in those four months wouldn't have that right, and then since 1 January 2006, they've had that right again. I don't get it. The second question concerns Article 108. The labour law, therefore, is scheduled for past work to be paid at 0.5% when the amendments are adopted. It is proposed to change to 0.4% and at first sight it is not disputed, so the General collective agreement is now envisaged, but two things are controversial. Why is one provision adopted months ago changed, and it is not contrary as stated in the reasons for the reasoning of the law? Again, I suppose, for the financial discharge of employers. I warn and once again express our position, reforms are necessary, but there is no successful reform without social rights, and neither is there any other without social justice. Not everything can be put on the shoulders of workers, because there is no successful reform without an even approach, and about that, it has to be arranged. Next, about a warm meal, a regression, a dilemma, and I'm asking the government a question. Article 118 provides that the employer is obliged to pay for a warm meal and a regress. Article 120 provides for an opportunity for the employer to do so. Apparently, she's not going with each other. But what is offered? A solution is offered, again one that makes a hole by January 1st, 2006. In fact, it is proposed that the 118th member should not apply until 1 January 2006, and that Member should not apply until 1 January 2006. So, if we bear in mind that the General collective agreement, which is in force until the end of September, has the intended obligation to pay off a warm meal and a regress, remains that part alone – September, October, November and December, that is, without September, so, three months, and this will be possible, that since 1 January 2006 it will again be an obligation. Why does the government do it, is it such a cost, is it such an expense, and is it, I ask the government one more question, is it a cost worker or a worker an equal participant in the process of creation? I don't think that's acceptable. Instead of applying points 2) and (3) of Article 120 to a new year, and then erasing, and in Article 118(5) and (6), delete, and apply from 1 January, I think that simply the minister has an opportunity on the board through the amendment to actually correct this illogicality. So, why those three months? Let Article 118 be applied as applied until the end, especially as corrections and corrections have been made and these expenditures are already settled in earnings, so they are not untaxed. The solution is sought because Article 120 is contrary to Article 118, not vice versa. The next issue concerns severance and is a member of a law that has been amended, and has not found a place of reason, in the reasons for the adoption of the law. So it's not the opposite of anything. I remind you, the applicable law provides for the payment of one-third of the salary for each year's work experience in general to be paid to a worker who gets fired. Now that provision is also the result of the amendment being adopted at the sitting itself, and in the bill it was not so. If that is the case, why are we changing it now, and it is not the opposite of another member? What's being offered here? One combination of the previous one and this one is offered, so up to 10 years one third, and from 10 years one quarter. And why is that? However, it is now a little more precise than it was before, so now it is said precisely, the sum of one third to 10 and one quarter over 10 years, but why is it done when there is nothing in the opposite, except contrary to employers' wishes that it costs him as little as possible that the highest cost - worker. The effects are not so small compared to the worker. Please, when we look at the picture of the social situation in Serbia, the most difficult situation is workers, and when we look at it, the most difficult situation is for workers who are in the second half of the working and life span. On them all reforms are broken, their shoulders are all broken, and now those up to 10 years of internships will not get this change, because they will get a third of the salary per year of internship. Those who have 30 will hit them, and instead of getting 10 salaries, he will get far less, specifically about eight and some pay. What are we doing this for? If the reason here is the financial discharge of employers, we no longer accept that reason. Not only can workers bear the burden, especially when we already have so many examples in public that 200 euros per year in other public and state institutions are paid each year. Why should they have it, and the workers, the common folk, have no employer. I don't think that change is acceptable. When it comes to the alignment of Members 179 and 190, it is about the resignation of a worker who does not achieve the results of the work. One combination of those two members was made, and I think it's acceptable. What's not acceptable? Again in these amendments, when this member is changed, no one has made an obligation for the employer to determine the results of the work of the workers, but that there are certain criteria, that there is some measurable way, that there is a time period in which the work of a worker is monitored to achieve the right results, which is the essence that should have been changed in this law. It is not disputed that one who does not get the results of the work gets fired, but it is a very controversial way of determining it. It is very controversial if those who achieve the results are subject to that provision, but they are not in any other way similar. It's a more important change that was supposed to be here, a clear criterion, clear criteria and a time period to be monitored. The 191 article is about newspapers, which can also cause dilemmas. Namely, Article 191. The law stipulates that a worker, on the basis of a court's judicial verdict, is entitled to request his return to work, if he has been wrongly fired. It's one category and she's left. The second part of that article refers to the employer being obliged to compensate for all damages to a worker during which he did not work, and he was unwarrantedly fired. That's not controversial. What's actually added? It is added, however, as a possibility and left to the court to appreciate, that, if the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work, by having the employer liable to pay the employee the damages within the meaning of Article 2 and Article 3 of this Article in a double amount. The provision can also cause a lot of problems and a lot of dilemmas. Why? Because an employer can abuse her and he can say, "Listen, I don't get paid by state money and I don't want to get him back to work." That's one side and let's be realistic. There's another one-- I'm gonna get him back to work, but I'm gonna make him run off on his own. There is a measure to be found, but for those reasons, the least you need to do here is not double the pay. Finally, to round up, I think there are members here, I've tried to name them, who deserve a change, because they correspond to the reasons for passing this law. These are the 118th and 120th members, with 120th wipes, not gymnastics, and 120th to be valid until the new year, 118th to apply from the new year. I don't think that's serious. Also, in Articles 179 and 190, which are contrary, I think a solution has been found regarding the payment of fees. What hasn't been done is criteria. I think the most dilemmas can challenge this provision that maternity leave is valid for two years, until August and from the new year, and since August and the new year is not valid. I think it's unserious, there's no need and it just doesn't fit the reason why this amendment was introduced, which is to positively affirm the area. Finally, I think here, the changes in the laws that are contrary are simply envisaged and changed by some other members who are not in the opposite. Therefore, we will determine our position only when we vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16631	The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this labour law has shown a clear desire by the government of the Republic of Serbia to put practically its working-age citizens in a slave relationship with the employer and indeed, workers in Serbia have been completely disproved. They could have had some kind of motivation to work under this law, even some dignity, but these changes and additions were tried to completely destroy it. We will analyse the member by member and you will see what is changing in the already existing Labour Act and, unfortunately, all of these members are more restrictive towards workers and thus enable employers to use workers and abuse them in every way possible. Article 1 relating to Article 62 The labour law, the 3rd term said, "the ministry responsible for labour affairs, the ministry responsible for health affairs" is deleted, which means that the employer has been obliged so far to request, if he wants to introduce night work, the opinion of the ministry responsible for work and the health ministry, and now it is only left to ask for the union's opinion. I believe that a large number of you have in their families employees who work with the employer and know, have information that practically employers rule unions or their leaders in various ways, bribing them, and thus will practically always get the opinion of the Union for the introduction of night labor, although there are no conditions for doing night work, although it is not adequate lighting or hygienic-technical protection funds, the union is easy to buy, and then they will get an easy opinion from the union. However, when it comes to the opinion of the Ministry of Health, it would be difficult to get, let's say, permission to introduce nighttime work, to have someone at the post porter or guardian at night, without any room, in the open air, on duty all night, and to keep the employer's property, on colds, which you will admit harming health, especially with inadequate means of hygiene and technical protection. Therefore, everything that the employer could have burdened in the sense that he had to seek the opinion of both of these ministries was avoided. Simply with the union president, he will lobby the union and get an easy consent to introduce night work on the jobs he considers necessary. Article 2 refers to Article 77. The law, and it says that item 3 of point 2) is changed and said: "on the day of voluntary giving of blood. "You know that for many years back, our country practically had a little problem with voluntary blood donors around the world. In recent years, it's been a big problem. People aren't motivated to give blood. The law intended that I could use two days off on that day when they gave blood. These changes and additions deprive them of the right and they can practically not work, or have a paid day, only that day when they gave blood, because someone probably in expert style concluded that it does not leave some health consequences and that one day is enough that later it can continue to work normally. So you see by these first two members that it is a matter of shortening the current rights that workers had on various grounds, and the other members are practically, all of them, subordinated to the employer and aim to bring the workers in, and as I said at the beginning, into a slave relationship with the employer. Workers don't practically have any rights. Article 3 refers to maternity leave. So far, it has been clear by law that for the first, second, third and fourth children, how many employed persons are entitled to maternity leave. However, it is added to Article 94a, which is very vague, which should create an illusion for us MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, as a result, the same right is maintained, and in fact, in the first position of Article 94a, it is completely unclear and can be interpreted in different ways. He says in the right attitude: "A working woman has the right to maternity leave and the right to leave because of child care for a third and fourth child for a total duration of two years. "After that, he's working down there, but for the third and fourth children for a total duration of two years. It was also intended for a third child to be two years and for a fourth child for two years, and this will be abused, I am sure of it and will again go to the harm of those who work and who are employed and who use the right to maternity leave. It's probably the government's contribution to curbing the white plague and what's most burdening our people. And that restrictively continued under this labour law by all members, here is Article 5. In Article 108(1), point (4) of the amendment again goes to the detriment of employees. He says, based on the time spent on work for every full year of work achieved in the employment ratio 0.5% of the basics, and now it is reduced, when it comes to the rights of employees on fixed earnings, to 0.4%. Therefore, it is not possible to accept the minister’s explanation at the outset that it is only to remove some of the collegiations in the members that existed. You can see for yourself by these first five members that it's not true that it was the desire of these changes and the addition to eventually removing some collations, but in practice to act restrictively further on the rights of workers. Article 111(3) deletes and excludes the need for a general collective agreement to determine the conditions under which an employer and employees may negotiate minimum earnings. So it remains that the employee has the right to minimum profit. A second position, if the employer and the employee contracts minimum earnings under Article 1(1) of this Article, the employer is obliged to pay the salary to the employee at the level of the decision laid down in Article 113 of this Act for the month in which the payment is made. So, the conditions are not particularly fixed and are not determined by a collective agreement, because it is enough for employees to give the employer the possibility that some people he wants to get rid of will be able to cope with various pressures, and by applying perhaps threats and blackmail, to put them in a position to agree to leave. It's that chicaning, which my predecessor spoke of, that they would agree with minimum severance to leave, because it wasn't regulated by a collective contract. The employer will practically have nothing to commit to respecting the basic human norms, and when it comes to the behaviour of the capital owner towards the employees. In Article 189 of the Law, there is nothing that can cheer up workers, so these changes are not, as you can see, just the removal of cohesion. Article 8 states that Article 189(1) changes by practically erasing this period of notice and the severance shall be determined by a general act and a contract of work. Some things are being thrown out, and that goes in accordance with the general policy run by this government. The final position of Article 189 shall be cast out, which has so far regulated the rights of the employee in the event that he has been invited to a military exercise and is at the service of the military period, etc. It's completely out of order, and now the law on the work of that matter doesn't treat it. Of course there's no need anymore when you've successfully destroyed the army, and you assume there will be no more military exercises, you assume that the employees will be leaving soon, those who started their contract before leaving for military service. They are given the opportunity not to join the army. The alarming data in this regard is that out of the 9,000 soldiers called last class, only 4,000 reported for service. It is the government's fault for such annihilation and the Council of Ministers' fault. It seems to me that you are doing this fully consciously, by carrying out perhaps the warrants you are getting, perhaps by having your ministers who are dealing with this area surrounded by people who have no good intentions towards our country when it comes to the security system, which is completely undermined. You, as Government, will remain remembered by that in the people. I appeal to MPs who support the government to remember when they vote on this law that you have family members who work with employers and that you will practically, these, your family members, and widely all those employed in the Republic of Serbia, push them into even deeper misery and take away those rights that they could have and could have called on. Article 10 continues, of course, in the style of these restrictive provisions, where it is said that Article 191 adds Article 4 which reads: "If the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work, with the employer being obliged to pay the employee the compensation in terms of Articles 2 and 3 of this Article in double amount. "You have again found a way that is quite embarrassing, practically to drive people out of work, without the right to protect them, even a court. This article refers to the court's need to protect those workers who, although they have not committed violations during work, can simply be at the request of the employer, although the court has reached a solution that they are not guilty, so they are refused to return to work. The current member of 191 predicted that they had to return to work, and then the employer paid them all that time they did not work for. Now it is said that we should vote on something that already existed, but in a slightly more subtle way, not rudely than by adding a new attitude, where it is said that the employer can practically say, well, the court has made a decision, but I don't like it and I ask you not to return it to work, and I will pay him what I had to pay him anyway after the court ruling, only then I would have to return it to work, and now I don't have to do it, of course. Articles 11, 12 and 13 refer to when some of the provisions of these amendments will apply, to when some will apply in the existing Labour Act and when these new ones will start to apply. Believe me, from the first to the last member, as regards the amendment of this Labour Act, all of them are restrictive towards workers and all of them will bring workers to a more difficult position in Serbia, when it comes to their relationship with the employer, and especially those provisions where the practical opinions of certain ministries are lifted on certain issues and where collective agreements are ignored or put out of effect. One part of the law is generally given to unions, but if you take a good look at the situation in Serbia between employees and employers, and you see the role of unions in these times, you will see that every union activist can be bought by hiring a child, a wife if he does not work or other small things, and in return we are brought into such a situation. These people will be able to betray their entire union, all the colleagues they work with, for the sake of personal interest. It always happens in those moments when it's a huge social misery and economic crisis, when people lose and what little morals they could keep up until recently. This law and these supplements will indeed be a shameful seal of this government. You'll see to this very soon. It is possible even if the right workers in Serbia understand what is offered by these changes and supplements, to face major social unrest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16633	The People's MP Nikola Todorovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister in the opening statement very briefly explained these amendments and additions to the laws we recently adopted. True, and there are no significant changes, except in part that they are more consistent or clearer to those who have to apply them. What I'd like, the minister isn't here, but I noticed a young lady who's from the Ministry and I'd like to record a few questions, so in that part, when we talk in particular, we might get an answer from the minister. The questions are, from the moment of adoption of the law in the Assembly, until today, whether the Ministry has any insight into how much this law has helped to regulate certain things in the state of Serbia, in terms of reducing abuses: when it comes to working on black, paying guaranteed minimum earnings, discrimination on certain jobs, when it comes to the abuse of certain legal institutes, that is, labour norms longer than full-time, when it comes to the obligation of the employer to give the employee a profit account for the past month? Has the Ministry ever controlled the work of employers and respected whether any of these provisions of the law, which, at the time of adoption, were said to be revolutionary, something new, something that would contribute to the lives of employees being better, that is, the obligation of the employer to make clearer and more specific. I think there's still a terrible lot of abuses, especially those provisions where you're talking about working for a certain time, that no worker who works for a certain period of time should remind the employer that these deadlines have expired, that the conditions have been obtained for the work to grow indefinitely, because that would mean putting a finger in the employer's eye or an open wound and the anger of the employer, where it could then be born into quitting. In particular, I would like to comment on the provision in Article 191 which our colleagues have already commented, when it comes to the possibility that the employer may request the court to make a decision not to return the employee to work, although he has been fired illegally before. I'll say it from another aspect. The employer shall be obliged to return the employee to work if he has been fired illegally and to compensate for damages in the amount of outstanding earnings, etc. Let me remind you, from the point of view of companies where the state is a majority owner, what it is in practical life. No employee who received a dispute in court, a judicial verdict, has been able to collect damages so far. Simply, the employer doesn't have any money. Who is the debtor here: the state that owns the company or the director who manages the company, the board of directors who manages the company? Who is the debtor from whom the damaged worker can claim compensation for damages, and so far it has failed anyone or rarely to whom. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe the minister doesn't think so. It's all associated with that idea and plan again, if these state-owned companies can't privatise themselves, that they'll come into a situation where a bankruptcy procedure, or bankruptcy, is going to be initiated, that all these workers will be cheated and paid minimum earnings, and that's only for a certain number of months, as it's said in these provisions of the law, or half of that compensation that's already been ruled by a judicial verdict. That's inadmissible. In private companies, with partner companies, there is no longer any control over the state and don't bother. The largest number of employees suffer such damages in enterprises, sometimes large state systems, which no longer work, because the state does not give crafts, does not invest in fixed assets, does not create conditions for these enterprises to start working and creating new values, but rather very slowly, through the Privatisation Agency, prepare for bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Then all those employees, who have so far had the unpleasantness and had the rights to prove in court, cannot exercise their rights. I'd like you to remind the minister when he comes to try to answer some questions. I'd like to see a report from the competent authorities that enforce the lawfulness of employment in the field of employment, in the field of regulation of labour rights, possibly, the right that has the unemployed currently on the National Employment Service's record, how is this an orderly relationship? To make a joke, yesterday was quite a bile debate here, as this government puts order in various areas of social life. I resented Mr. Markovic at a part where he says the order this country has introduced at gas stations does not support him. I resented him because he didn't say well in the falls. It's not a matter of order. It's a matter of order. This reminds us of those problems from the earlier period, when the ranks for milk, bread, gasoline, oil, and oil derivatives appeared. Now the only lines visible are at the gas stations and very large lines at the door of the National Employment Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16635	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16636	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Labour Act, on the basic text on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, has been marked by a number of objections from the MPs, a large number of amendments. One number of amendments was then adopted. You remember then the President of the Republic's attempt to veto this, then adopted, labour law gets some points. Afterwards, he signed the same text, even though it came out of this congregation and the other text was contrary to the way the MPs discussed it and what they accepted. So, the Minister or the Ministry then corrected the text of the Labour Act as the minister thought possible, to be applicable from its point of view. But that is not enough for him, but at that time he announced that such a law, as the MPs had adopted, could not be applied and that he would appear with a proposal to amend and supplement the law. We Serbian radicals think and know that the National Assembly does not serve to fulfill the wishes of ministers, that ministers must respect the will of the National Assembly, that they must accept the law that the National Assembly adopts, and that Minister Lalovic at the time said that the National Assembly passed a criminal law, that is something that the National Assembly should discuss, but for some other part of the agenda, which in this National Assembly cannot come to the agenda and discuss. What we have, these 13 points of the Amendment and the addition of the Labour Act, is that with all these proposals and each of these articles, solutions that go absolutely to the detriment of employees are proposed. When we talked about the basic law, we talked about the situation in which there are some employees in Serbia, since there are many more who do not work and every day there are more and more people who do not work. We think it is inadmissible that the ministry has dared to propose these changes so quickly and to change exactly what the MPs, here through the amendments, voted for most of the votes of the National Assembly. What the minister says, he suggests in Article 1 to delete: the ministry responsible for work, the ministry responsible for health affairs, when it comes to work done at night and the opinion of which authority it is needed to work at night. So, when we passed the law, we said that the ministry's opinion on labour affairs is necessary, and the health ministry, and now the government and Minister Lalovic are proposing that it be deleted and that only the union's opinion is required for such work. Is there someone in the union who is trained to give this opinion, that's something to talk about and that's what we talked about when we talked about basic law. But this is what the minister intended, the majority of the assembly will adopt, and how it will affect the lives of the employees, the workers in Serbia, that in this country's ruling structure, the ruling furniture, is absolutely not interested. Article 2 proposes to reduce the number of days off for voluntary blood donors. That's amazing. Every day we listen to alarming news of lack of blood in Serbia, every day we have calls for voluntary blood donation and then to those who are otherwise voluntary donors, who are used to having a day off when they give blood, now we reduce it. The Minister of Thoughts and Reasons, of course, are healthy people, is the truth that giving blood isn't a disease, it's all true, but we think it's really necessary for the legislator to have one human relationship with people, who are also human because they willingly give blood and help someone whose blood saves life. So the proposal to reduce the number of days off for voluntary blood donors for Serbian radicals is unacceptable. Article 4 of this law, which actually speaks of Article 94a of the basic law, is really so written that I don't know which expert might interpret it - whether a maternity leave of two years applies to a third and fourth child, or, as it says here, "right to maternity leave and leave due to child care for a total duration of two years, there is also a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as an employed woman who has one, two or three children, and in the next birth of two or more children". This is really amazing. The simplest interpretation of this article makes it clear that a woman who has three children and gives birth to one child in the next birth, is not subject to this member of the law. This has been tried in a very vague way for the MPs to present themselves, but it is forgotten that in this assembly there are a large number of lawyers and that it certainly cannot be crossed over this solution. You've abolished the general collective agreement with the proposal, and you remember how many stories there were about the general collective agreement at the time we talked about basic law. You are now proposing that this be abolished because both in the public and in this House you were absolutely against it, as you have reduced so-called. past work. So all that was good in this law you are now proposing to be changed at the expense of the employees. I think that the most recent member of this bill - Article 10, where it is said in Article 191 of the basic law, adds Article 4, which reads: "If the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work, with the employer's duty to pay the employee the damages in terms of Articles 2 and 3 of this article in double." What's the court doing here? The court finds that someone should return to work with the employer because he has not been fired under the law. It's the only way the court will get him back, but you're getting involved in the court's business with this law and saying that the employer can express his desire not to return this to work, but only to pay him double the fee. So you don't allow a man to go back to work, and the point is that the court will determine that he can and should return to work. Whoever came up with this, indeed, is honored with the idea. Something like this has never been seen before - that one law, in this way, affects the work of the court. Indeed, I do not know, when the judges see this member, which you will certainly adopt, how they will react. Which judge will allow himself, if he finds out that someone has been fired illegally and that he needs to be returned to work, and then the employer comes and says, Judge, I'll give him double damage, don't return him to work, which normal judge will accept to work this way, according to this law. This is really scandalous. Article 12, which speaks of the application of the provisions of Articles 118 and 120 of the basic law, is also unacceptable for the Serbian Radical Party, because Article 12, as you yourself wrote in the explanation, provides that the provisions of Article 118(5) and (6) of the Labour Act, which determine the right of an employee to receive a food allowance during work and a regression for the use of annual leave, cease to apply on the date of entry into force of this law and will apply from 1 January 2006. The provisions of Article 120(2) and (3) which regulate the possibility of fixing the right to a food allowance during work and the regress for the use of annual leave will cease to apply on 1 January 2006. Minister, if you understand what you wrote, it's an honor. So, the position of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is that it is absolutely unacceptable that, in this way, such proposals are amended by the Labour Act, a team before the National Assembly discussed this law two months ago, which is by decision, not by government and minister, but by the decision of the assembly majority, a certain amendment was adopted. Those amendments were a good solution for employees. That's when we talked, now we repeat, the Ministry and Government, obviously and the assembly majority, are in the position that the Labour Act should be in favour of the employer. We Serbian radicals think that it should be in favour of employees, of course, not to damage the employer, but in any case, in a situation where the Republic of Serbia, where employees are located, at a time when nothing in Serbia works or works, this parliament must take care of the employees of Serbia and therefore we Serbian radicals will not vote for amendments and additions to the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16637	The People's MP Branislav Stevanovic has the word, and let the MP Anita Beretic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult to find places to criticise after Ms. Verica Radeta, a top lawyer, but I will try from my point of view, from my point of view, that these proposed 12 members to amend and supplement the Labour Law comment. So we have for the third time in half a year on the agenda of this Labour Act, and you can see that this law is going to be forced. Why is it the third time? Of course, the culprits are the Serbian government, and above all the president of the Assembly, who is quite accidentally or possibly not on purpose when we are discussing this law, because he himself knows there would be plenty of room for his personal criticism. We have 12 members here who have been proposed to amend and supplement, and I want to say that many of these members were adopted last time, when we first discussed, adopted the Labour Act, and then it worked out the awareness of some parliamentary groups, which previously passed the Labour Act, which was very bad for the employees in Serbia, but it worked out, so they voted as best for the employees in Serbia. This is member 77 talking about voluntary blood donors, so far we've had three days of practice that employees have the right to leave their jobs, but here it's proposed that it be one day now. Indeed, this is the true destimulation of employees, and now I see no reason why, apart from some short-term need for someone closer to them, we would give blood, and we know that in all the countries of the world this and how it pays. I know a recent example where a man had to pay 50 euros to a blood donor to save his mother's life. Also, I'd like to point to a 94 member who's talking about family. So here, as we've heard, the fourth child who gets has no right before, so there are three children, which doesn't make any sense, and I'd say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina a woman, whether she's working or not, she's automatically retired after the third child, which means we're absolutely destabilising birth here. Of course, it's very suspicious of me and it doesn't make sense, and we're aware that and how the white plague threatens you. In article 108, which speaks of past work, you reduced from 0.5 per year of work to 0.4. So there is absolutely no specific comment here, except that it is obviously protecting the state budget and that as little is allocated to employees in Serbia. Also, cancel date with Article 189. Of course, I've criticised it a lot last time, and I wouldn't be particularly critical about it right now, but there's really a lot of illogical attitudes about the issue of expertise and ability, self-achieving at the workplace, which really doesn't make sense, because a man who works for 10 or more years at the same workplace, I don't see any reason, except health, why he can't provide adequate professional and other skills in his workplace. Furthermore, Article 118, on which I submitted the amendment when we first discussed this law. Of course, there has been a lot of controversy in public, and there has been the President of the Assembly, obviously known, to go to one insinuation, to one fraud, which has not gone to me or the other MPs in this House. Then, your strong election promises to the unemployed in Serbia. You said you'd hire over 500,000, and unfortunately, gentlemen, we see already today strike in front of the Soko Sturka government workers. We know there's probably gonna be a cancellation, but as much as you promised to hire, in fact, gentlemen, you're close to that number to resigning so much. On the other hand, union representatives, unfortunately, most of them are corrupt, all of which are known. If we start with the Privatisation Agency, etc. The corruption of the boards of directors is also evident. The board of directors, said today in Soko Stirko, makes one decision that is contrary to the decision of most workers, most employees, more than two-thirds of the employees in Soko Sturko. I also want to say that this proposal really doesn't make any sense, that for the third time we're discussing 12 of the most important members of the Labour Act. Once again, I appeal to the MPs and to the individual's personal awareness not to accept fully as proposed, because even when it is said that this Article 118 is only in effect from 1 January of next year, the government obviously did not plan to pass these three proposals, which my amendment speaks of, which is past work, regression and 0.5 payouts of past work. So that's obviously where you've kidnapped workers in Serbia all year long and saved those funds, so you're counting on the next election, probably in December, who comes to power to see how and where they'll pay off the workers. You leave it to us from the SRS so we can regulate that area. Since we're limited in time, my colleagues will speak, so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16639	The People's Messenger Anita Beretic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16640	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the least said is a bit of a strange time in which we are discussing the amendment and addition of the Labour Act and that it happened extremely quickly. So, I don't know if any of the laws are on the agenda, or if there's a proposal to amend and supplement it within such a short period of time, and it's also of such importance as the Labour Act, and as is now the case with this proposal. On the one hand, you can understand both the need, and the conditions, and the demand of transition time, and everything we go through and what we definitely have to go through, and that can be an explanation. On the other hand, there are likely to be more obvious gaps made in the adoption of a valid Labour Act. There will certainly be a lot of words in the debate and we will certainly hear a lot of what it is that the interests of the employer, what it is that the interests of the employee and what it is that is the interest of the state. And these are important topics, but in this dynamic of social change, there are groups that, as a rule, are ignored and come out through this period and this kind of period damaged, so I'm just going to look at Articles 2, 4 and 11. Proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act. Namely, these members are just defining the status of the recently mentioned minority, important and often endangered social groups. Article 2 provides for a reduction of the rights of donors, i.e. voluntary blood donors. So, in current Article 77. The labour law provides for the right to be employed on three days of paid leave in case of voluntary blood donation, leave on the day itself and two more days. Now in Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act is abolished these two additional days, so that a voluntary donor only has the right to the day when blood is given. This, of course, can be justified by the needs of the employer and any other facts, possible manipulations and the the thesis that voluntary blood giving is not a disease, which is true and thank God that it is. But at the same time, it would be good to know how many voluntary blood donors we have and, as many as we have, whether the maximum amount of blood they give is enough for the everyday situations our society and our citizens are going through. We are constantly witnessing many alarming campaigns of health institutions that more and more are needed through them, as they say, and it is, the most precious liquids. I think that measured materially, on the one hand, and recalculated in two days of paid leave, it is not comparable to the degree of importance of the action of voluntary blood donors and the social well-being they achieve. Article 4 provides for changes, as far as maternity status is concerned. Recently, we were also in this assembly, both actors and witnesses to a great debate about how much we are as a society, in a way, and threatened, to call it, a disease -- a white plague. What always surprises me in some way is some degree of hypocrisy when it comes to the subject. I think we now have a great opportunity to show, in one place where this concept is defined, that we can approach completely openly and once take a general view of this issue, and then in this particular law and every other, define those narrow situations. And what exactly do I think? Article 94a of the Bill of Law states: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave and the right to leave work for the care of a child for a third and fourth child for a total duration of two years. "Then comes the debate, and what about the fifth, what about the sixth, etc. It's about working women, and it would still be very good to have exact indicators of how many percentages of women's employees actually gave birth to four and more children. I should almost bet it's about a percentage that's less than one. I think it would be good, if there was a will, simply this first attitude, means, to write as a general definition, and then practically follow all other special attitudes and be compatible with what I want to suggest: that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave and the right to leave work for the care of a child for the third and every next child born. So this kind of eliminates this possibility of discrimination, after this attitude, and in every other law, which has mothers of five and more children, that is, for the fifth and every subsequent child born. I think that the competent subcommittees and committees could, in the time that is ahead for us under the new Rules of Procedure, make an effort and come closer to this subject in a more simple way. At the same time, article 11 defines the time of application of the rights acquired from Article 94. Therefore, a working woman who started using maternity leave in accordance with Article 94. The labour law, until the day of entry into force of this law, continues to apply the right to maternity leave and leave due to child care in accordance with the provisions of that member. I think this violates the basic principle, when there is a change in the law that applies to this party as favourable a law as possible, so that women who are born third, fourth child by the end of this year will be in a more unfavourable position than women born from 1 January 2006 and beyond. I don't think we should make this level of discrimination that way either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16641	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS, and let MP Zoran Antic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Lalovic, at the end of 2001 passed the Labour Act, so at the time of the DOS regime, or rather tell the DS. The law was one of the worst laws ever passed by the DOS since 2001 until the end of its rule in 2003. To remind you, this law abolished the de facto collective agreements, general and special, there was no obligation, the law abolished the number of rights of all employees, the severances were reduced, the fees paid, the leave paid, the annual leave, and all this was done under the fact that it was a reform law, that it was a good law, that it would bring a lot of good for all employees. Of course, it wasn't like that, it was one of the worst laws, and that law was passed with a voice from abroad, more specifically, then the mayor of Novi Sad voted from Greece, from Thessaloniki, and it was proven. At the beginning of this year, given the consequences of the Labour Act, with a painful engagement, we adopted a new Labour Act. We were not satisfied with this law, first of all, because there is no direct application of the general and special and collective contract and because the government is not guaranteed to conclude the agreement, but yet the law has brought certain improvements when it comes to cash compensations, severances, when it comes to paid leave, vacations, and even many other things. However, after two months, the minister proposes to amend and supplement this law. Simply, we can understand that there are provisions that are contradictory and that are simply to be changed, primarily regarding the members of 118 and 120, respectively, 189 and 190. Like all other laws, even a number of laws passed in the Assembly today, all laws are restrictive, are reduction, reduction of the rights of employees, unemployed, if this is the second law, pensioners, etc. For example, our biggest remark is about increasing earnings based on past work. We were there by law in March or February, when we adopted, in a way we boxed the past work to be 0.5% for each year of work. The minister re-proposes it to return to 0.4%. It may seem that this does not seem to be some significant change, but in a situation like this everything is important, every dinar, everything is important and I don't think this proposal was good. On the other hand, when we talk about technological surpluses, and the severances provided for these changes and additions will certainly be less. We, for example, have had about 10 salaries in 30 years of internships, which is a significant improvement compared to the law that was supposed to say so by yesterday, by March, but with these changes, if we're making some parallel with 30 years of internships, there were about 8.5 salaries. I don't think it's that important for the ministry and the government, and it's very important for any employee who remains unemployed to have this part of the severance, who would still be better off than the proposal of the minister or the government of Serbia. When we talk about voluntary blood donors, this is about voluntary giving, three days de facto is a good solution and the minister must know that voluntary blood donors in Serbia are officials and workers, 90% are these people. If it's about workers in direct production, as we used to talk about, they're very important two days off, besides the day they give blood. The same goes for the officers. I just had a chance to talk to a few doctors working in a transfusion. They are also very welcome and said that this is a good solution, so we will have a chance on the board to keep this solution or if it is a reduction to be quite minimal. However, what is interesting and what is interesting for this government, and it was interesting for the previous one, all the laws that were passed in the field of labour and social legislation were very restrictive for all people. So, when it comes to this law, the restrictions, the reduction of rights, they are related to employees, and when it comes to the Employment and Restriction Act, this reduction refers to people who are left without a job or who are looking for a job. When it comes to pensioners, it concerns the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. For example, if we were to re-analyze all of these laws that were passed a few years ago, here's the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act, we had an increase in age to 63 for men, women to 58 years. It was adopted, so-called. Swiss formula, where we have a three-month pension adjustment with 50% of the cost of living and 50% of the salary growth. We came into a situation today to make the average pension 60% of the average salary, but we have even worse announcements when it comes to this area. When we talk about the pension bill, we had a situation, for example. By 2002, pensions are calculated for the 10 most favourable years. It's been erased, and now pensions are accounted for for for by the entire job, so 30 and 35 years. So, absolutely restrictive. The labour law, which I was just talking about, that law was extremely restrictive, and when we talk about severances, and cash fees, and vacations, and all these things that matter to all employees. When we talk about the Employment Act, it's one of the very important laws that surrounds this area of labour and social legislation, we remember that there were absurd situations, that there were absurd proposals. We know a provision where an unemployed person is said to be actively looking for a job, and at the same time we had provisions saying that he must be home every day at a certain place and at a certain time. So that's one amazing thing. On the other hand, it was this law to delete from the unemployment records that was very easy. I think it's still in effect today, where someone is said to be able to delete himself from the unemployment records after nine months if he's offered any job. Every job for up to three months was appropriate in the degree of expertise and profession. After six months only in the profession, and after nine months each job is appropriate and so on. Doctors could be offered any job and such a job was appropriate, to professors, economists, lawyers, and those people who would at that moment refuse to work would in fact be deleted from the records, and what is worst, until re-entering the records remain without health insurance. So, in total, all of these laws in the field of labour and social legislation were extremely restrictive, extremely rigid for all persons employed, pensioners and unemployed persons. We are now coming to what reforms are in the previous regime, Dossov, and what reforms are when it comes to the current government. All these reforms are reportedly painful, all these reforms need to endure, and a better life will come. I am deeply convinced that there is nothing of it, that all the reforms that are being implemented are painful, and that the life of these citizens, while these laws are being passed, will be even worse and worse. Simply, I think Minister Lalovic is also in a vicious circle when it comes to international financial organisations. International financial organisations, primarily the IMF and the World Bank, are constantly asking the government of Serbia, of resolution ministers in a way, to fire workers, either through privatisation, or through restructuring. The number of employees is reduced, and when the number of employees decreases, there is a reduction in the resources coming from contributions, and we know that the stability of all the funds, the pension fund, the unemployment fund, all the funds, and, of course, the health fund is also linked to the contributions. Unless there are certain grants from the budget, but it is a trap again, because very often international financial organisations, primarily the IMF and the World Bank, require that these funds are not filled out from the budget. Then we come to a situation where we might come to such an opportunity and in such a situation that simple pensions are paid only to the extent that there are original funds and that's the scariest thing. So, the essence of this whole story is the number of employees, and that's why we rightly ask the question, when we're talking about restructuring public enterprises, is it possible to fire 20,000 from EPS, 10,000 from Telecom, I don't know how many thousands from NIS, because in such a situation, if we don't have employees who receive salaries, we won't have these funds either. We've seen what's going to be done by international financial organisations. After all, we have numerous objections in our environment, in many countries, and also in Latin America, although it is very often said by Minister Dinkic that we will not go that way. I'm afraid it's inevitable, if we blindly do what the IMF and the World Bank tell us to do, that we'll come into such an unenviable situation that simply because of mass layoff, we won't be able to pay any pensions, we don't have good health insurance, we don't have to fill the fund when it comes to unemployed persons. For these reasons, I would also recommend that a little flaw in all these requirements of the IMF and the World Bank, as simply many countries in the environment did not take much care of the IMF and World Bank's request. The best example is Slovenia, although I hate to talk about Slovenians, but they also took care of everything that is state and national interest. The demand of international financial organisations in many countries has always gone that way. So, to do ad hoc privatisation, and even today we have here in the Assembly a large number of advocates that the most important thing is to make privatisation as soon as possible, and we know that privatisation in Serbia was a general robbery. There is no day for all SPS deputies to not come to letters where concrete people report and talk about how their company has been robbed. The whole of Serbia as a palm is the same or at least 95% of enterprises are privatised by the fact that companies have been sold for small money, which people have been fired, which new owners and newly-compromised rich people have never respected the contract. I don't know if there are 5% of Serbia's situation or cases where the owner, the new owner, respected the contract, paid the salaries, did not sell more than 10% of his capital or did his obligations when it comes to the social programme. The fact is that no social programme in Serbia is good. It's not a good social program or the tobacco industry. These people who took 40,000 euros, 30, 50, and that money is spent in a few years, and when a man has more money, he spends it faster, and behind that, all these people won't find a job anywhere. After all, all these foreign bosses that have no interest, they wouldn't give any more substantial sums when it comes to firing workers. So in this country, Drnovšek also told our politicians in 2001, 2002, then DOS leaders, that they should not rush privatisation, that they should not sell anything that is important to the state and the people, and they have sold everything. The first situation relating to the privatisation of all Serbian companies shows that many were in a hurry, and I think it is unnecessary and that only what is good should be privatised, which is in the interest of all employees, rather than privatising something post-poo, and beyond that all people remain jobless. There's no increase in wages anywhere. We're talking about Sartide, and now former Minister Vlahovic often praises, Sartid is great, it's great. In Sartid, production increased fivefold, but wages are on average 15,000 - 16,000, somewhere at 200 euros. So he won't even give a foreign boss more for some work that's worth paying for. He'll pay as much as he pays in his environment. What is important in these international financial organisations, and what should be taken into account by Minister Lalovic, parallel to such a robbery privatisation, is the requirement to raise electricity prices, communals, telephones, all the things that are important to this country. It's always in the process and the component of the process is bankruptcy of the economy and banks. Didn't all this happen in this society? That's exactly what happened. Apparently, after all that, there's some poverty reduction strategy going on, and after that poverty strategy is not less at all, it's getting bigger and I'm afraid it's going to get bigger. That is why it is imperative and the highest task of any government to be responsible, to know what its interest is, and the interest of every state, when it comes to economics and social policy, is to take care of its citizens. I think there is one policy in action today in Serbia, as it was in 2003, that the state should have as little problems with its citizens as possible. Just let them think what they're going to do with themselves, let them go to the market, let them manage and, of course, hardly anyone can cope with this situation. Who can find a job in Serbia today after 45 or 50 years. It doesn't matter what the profession is. These youngsters can't find a job. So the state must have a clear strategy about it, and that strategy must also be within the framework of the laws passed in this assembly. I think when we talk about all these ministries that are covered by the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, and even this Ministry of Labour and Employment, we don't care enough about it. It is simply important to pass the law, reduce the rights of all persons employed, reduce pensioners' rights, reduce citizens' rights when it comes to health care, and then the state is good, because it has very small or low issues. Of course, when it comes to the SPS, it can't be a good trip and of course we see the whole situation differently. We believe that the state must be a guarantee of the most important rights for all citizens and for all people in this Serbia, and today it is not. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16643	Thank you, Mr. Bushetti. The word is by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16644	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the conclusion that something has happened to us again that we have witnessed in previous councils. The law withdraws from the procedure and suddenly comes to the agenda the laws we expect in the next sessions, that is, the next days. I have to admit, it's very difficult to get the agenda with 45 points, come to work and prepare for one law, and then realize that on the agenda, there's a whole other law that, by some free estimate, you expect it to be only next week. If you are seriously preparing for work, if you seriously want to comment on the laws that are on the agenda, it is very difficult to switch from one law to another, it is very difficult to properly represent the views on the laws on the agenda. Today we're talking about the Labour Act, instead of talking about the laws that preceded it, but what is there. The proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act is unique for several reasons. It is not remembered that in the parliamentary history of the Republic of Serbia and this parliament one law in less than three months was twice on the agenda of the republic's parliament. I'll remind you, the Labour Act was passed on March 23rd this year, and today it's June 30th. Two months ago, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law came to the MPs of the Republic's parliament and we are now discussing it, which is another proof that there was no proper discipline of the ruling majority, and that by adopting different amendments they passed a law that could not be properly applied. Certain provisions contradict each other, there were certain abuses when sending the text of the Labour Act to the President of the Republic of Serbia, which is why he refused to sign it first. After that, it is again against the law, in an inappropriate manner, voted in the Republic's parliament and after re-election, of course, that the President of the Republic has signed the law. Instead of the ruling majority, instead of the minister admitting indetermination, irregularities and finding the mistakes made in the previous law, we are talking today about a set of amendments that confirm all that I just said and what the DS was talking about after the adoption of the Labour Act. The amendments submitted by the DS when the Labour Act was adopted are not respected at this time, even though they expressed a modern European spirit in the field of working relations and extended the solutions agreed by the social partners in Serbia. This is further evidence that social dialogue is continued to be ignored and that the factual centralisation of labour decisions is clearly seen through the provisions of the Labour Act. Quite a lot of intelligence from the Ministry and Government is something that is not sustainable in this law. So, the role of the bureaucratic apparatus, in relation to the importance of the social partners, is contrary to the attitudes in this area and the trend that should be one of the priorities in all transition countries, which is, above all, social dialogue. I will briefly analyse the provisions of the amendments and the addition of the Labour Act in order to give the DS views of each of them individually. Article 1 Proposal for amendments to the Labour Act abolishes the obligation of the employer to seek the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, as introduced by the basic text of the Labour Act. This is an O.K. provision and we agree, with the fact that we do not understand why this provision existed in the previous Labour Act. But we also do not understand where the provisions similar to those of Article 188, to which the amendment was submitted by the DS and which, I remind you, was adopted by the majority of the votes in parliament and is not in the Labour Act. In fact, it was voted that the minister did not have to ask or decide if one of the workers stopped working because he did not accept a new job after a new systematization, which is in line with his expertise. The amendment was voted by a large majority of MPs of the Republic's parliament and is neither in the previous nor in the current text of the Labour Act. Article 2 is in fact leading to a change in Article 77. The labour law, which provides for the right of an employee on three days of paid leave in case of voluntary blood donation. Now it's decided to be one day. This amendment represents the adoption of employers' requirements to reduce cases of paid leave, but the issue of treatment of voluntary blood donors, as well as their social significance, is raised, since their right is used, unfortunately, by who knows which time in this law, as a motif for promotion between the government, trade unions and employers. This problem should be approached from a health and social aspect, so that the matter of absence does not have to be generally determined against all donors, but its length can be prescribed by a single collective contract, starting with the weight of the business done by the donor in the company. Since it is already in the procedure of the draft health protection law at work and predicts the assessment of the weight and risk of each job, we think that this solution is possible. What we do not understand is why the legislator who proposes new laws and both of them are from his portfolio - amendments and additions to the Labour Act, as well as the Health Protection Act. I think the name of the Safety and Safety Act, etc., simply did not comply with the provisions of those two laws and did not provide for a more favourable and better solution that would in a better way solve such an important thing in our country. Blood is something that's necessary. Having a certain release from work when giving blood is something that represents, in some ways, a state obligation. In some future instance, it should be considered a state obligation, not an employer's obligation. We think this is how you buy cheap points. In fact, as I've already said, voluntary blood donors and this reduction of the days off are indeed an inappropriate coin for adjudicating and inappropriate compromise on a very important matter that this member is solving. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 3rd and 4th separation of the mother's right to give birth to a third and fourth child of the mother's right Namely, in the Labour Act, these rights were regulated in one article, while the general rights and lengths of maternity leave are now prescribed in Article 94, for 365 days, while the new member of 94a specifically provides for and specify the rights of the mother who has given birth to a third and fourth child - two years. Unfortunately, in Article 13, for unexplainable reasons, these provisions are intended to be applied from 1 January 2006, as does Article 11, according to which a woman employed, who started maternity leave in accordance with the current Labour Act, continues to exercise the right to maternity leave and leave due to child care in accordance with the provisions of the law. This is contrary to the basic principles that should be applied to that legislation that is more favourable to the party. As a result, we do not see the reason, if these provisions are already provided, which is why the state has not found a way to apply these provisions from the date of the law, but is going to be delayed from 1 January 2006, and you are making a difference between the woman who gave birth between 21 March and 31 December 2005 compared to the one who gave birth on 1 January 2006, and you have a law that makes a positive solution to this. Is this again a problem of budget shortages or not good enough calculations of the legislator, I don't know. In any case, I think there are amendments to these members and I propose to the MPs, given that this is a very important thing, the issue of birth has several times been a topic for this speaker and this parliament, that it is necessary to consider not putting the families of this year and the following year in an unequal position. This is really not a political question, this is a human question, a question of the treatment of women who gave birth to a child in a period when these laws had already entered into force. We believe that making a difference is something that is human and morally unsustainable. Article 5 of the Amendments and Supplements Act amends Article 108. The labour law also leads to an increase in earnings from 0.5 basics being reduced to 0.4 for each year of work achieved in a working relationship. Here, two questions can be raised to the legislators and MPs who voted for the adoption of the text of the Labour Act. What changed in the economic projections in a few months, that now the basis for past work, which I will remind you, was voted without discussion? There were no objections, no proposals, no financial calculations, no controversy by the ruling coalition. Just two months after the adoption of the previous Labour Act, we today have the fact that we are reducing the basis, or less than 30 days from the date of adoption of the law, there is a proposal being submitted to the MPs, which provides for a reduction of the basis. Is now aware that all those who voted for the definition of years spent in a working relationship, as the basis for determining the years for which the fees for past work are due, are being brought into an unequal position by all those who, as entrepreneurs or persons who have performed private work, have been able to pay their contributions neatly, and are now unable to exercise the right to this compensation for that time. In our opinion, the right to this compensation should be realised for those years for which the individual has paid contributions, not only to be linked to the category of employment, because the current solution provided for by the legislator results in only those who have worked in social enterprises having this right. A completely legally unsustainable finding. Article 6 shall be deleted from the obligation set out in Article 111(3). Labour law, that the conditions for payment of minimum earnings are determined by a general collective agreement. The applicant's explanation that the general collective agreement does not oblige all employers is not justified for a number of reasons. It is common in all legislations of developed countries that the general collective agreement prescribes conditions under which an employer and employees can contract minimum earnings. It is also normal to respect the general collective agreement in all countries, and it is the government's task to ensure through social dialogue that all employers apply it. The government has ignored social dialogue and therefore employers and do not want to respect the general collective agreement. This is already several examples that social dialogue has not been brought to life, and as you know, it is one of the ways in which many countries in transition have overcome many of the problems they have encountered and we can certainly fall into, but unfortunately by not having social dialogue, we deny ourselves the opportunity to solve our problems more quickly and successfully. (President: Mrs Stojacic, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. In this way, the centralisation of the right to make decisions on minimum earnings is carried out because the government, as a member of the Social-Economic Council, is one that can always obstruct its work and thus enable everyone and themselves to make decisions on minimum earnings. Article 7 of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act changes the minimum amount of severance in the event of termination of employment due to technological, economic or organisational changes. It is now tied to the length of the job, so for the first 10 years of work, it amounts to a third of the salary employed for each year in the employment relationship and a quarter of the earnings for each working year in the employment relationship, over 10 years spent in the employment relationship. It is quite unclear, in our opinion, why this amendment is being made, given that the new solution is much more complicated and complex than the previous one. What, I can't recognize, I suppose, most MPs are also worth more work in the first 10 years of employment than in earlier years of employment? What, in fact, makes the years spent working different value? I didn't find any answers to these questions. If anyone has them, I'd like it to help me, but also to all those who don't understand it, and I think most of the citizens are calling this a question. Article 8 refers to the cancellation of the period in the event of termination of the employment relationship due to failure of the results of the work. What are the motives of the promoter to give greater rights to employees who do not achieve adequate work results? A completely unclear motive for the employer to protect those workers who, for subjective reasons, do not meet and do not achieve the results of the work. Contrary to Article 8, Article 9. The draft amending and supplementing the Law deletes the right of the employee, whose employment relationship has ceased because of the failure to achieve the results of the work, i.e. there is no necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the work, to pay the cash compensation. These two members are contradictory. This solution is justified because it does not make sense for such persons to be paid cash compensation on termination of employment due to subjective weaknesses. We agree with this legal solution. But the question arises, the promoter and the MPs who voted for the Labour Act, what has changed again in the meantime, so in less than a month since the amendment proposal arrived, or in three months from today, when we again discuss this law, and why they are now calling for the IOR Convention No. 158, when she was in force at the time of the Law of Labour. I'll remind you that under this convention, no fee can be paid to the person who has stopped working because of subjective weaknesses. You have no reason to protect someone's working relationship if he didn't follow the rules of work, be late for work, not come to work, makes some serious injuries at work. Article 10 is a member to whom the amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party parliamentary group and which, in our opinion, is at least unsustainable. This article provides that, at the request of the employer, the court may refuse an employee's request to return to work, with the employer's obligation to pay the employee's compensation for the loss of earnings and other double incomes. According to us, an extremely bad solution. We believe this proposal has no excuse. First, this provides for a basic rule of law that the removal of illegality is caused by the return of legality, i.e. the return to a situation that existed prior to the occurrence of an illegal act or act. Secondly, in this way, one of the fundamental constitutional rights is not respected - the right to work and, worse still, it is substituted to the right to cash compensation. Thirdly, it opens up the possibility of employers to significantly manipulate and reduce labour in an illegal manner. As a former member, I will remind you, if a court judge has the right to return to work, he is left with the possibility of not returning to that post, because he can no longer establish adequate contact with the employer. At that time, the employer undertakes to pay him a certain fee and thus compensates for the fact that, although he has a judicial verdict, he will not return to his post. We think it's okay and it's the right thing to do. We do not think that the employer can have the right to derivate a judicial verdict, which establishes an opportunity for the worker to return to his post, so he finds that contrary to the legal provisions, he has been fired, or a certain termination of his employment. There's no cash compensation the employer can pay him and it's substituting his right to work if he wants to keep working. In a country where there are more than a million unemployed, in which we face daily the fact that there will be an even greater number of unemployed people, to substitute the right to work as a cash compensation, we consider it a very bad legal solution. Also, as the minister called for the 158-member convention, 8-10. I'll read what it says in those provisions of the Convention. The provisions of Articles 8 to 10. The Conventions have established the powers of the Court, as an impartial body, to examine the reasons for the termination of the working relationship and to assess the illegality of the termination of the working relationship, shall independently decide on the return to work and the determination of the obligation to pay the damages. In the implementation of this procedure, the employer may only undertake to bear the burden of proof that there is a valid reason for the termination of the employment relationship. Therefore, nowhere is the possibility for the employer to make a decision contrary to a judicial ruling and to determine the cash compensation in case he wants the worker to literally fire from work. Article 11. The proposal to amend this law, which has already been mentioned several times for this speaker, refers to women who have begun maternity leave. I've already explained that in some ways. We believe that this amendment must be adopted, that women who have given birth to children must be fully equaled from the moment of adoption of this law and not distinguish between children born in 2005 and 2006. What, too, is unclear - why does the transitional and final provisions of this law provide for the law to enter into force the next day of publication in the official list? The law has been passed by emergency procedure, more than two months since the law was passed to parliament. We think there is no reason why the law should not enter into force on the eighth day of adoption in the Republic's parliament, i.e. from publication in the official list of the Republic of Serbia. In the hope that MPs of the Republic's parliament will consider the provisions and remarks made by the Democratic Party behind this speaker, I hope that we have a chance to improve certain proposals by adopting certain amendments, which I do not think are an adequate moment to live in and that they are not in line with certain positive regulations that we will soon have on the agenda of the Republic's parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16645	Thank you, Mrs. Stojcic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Let MP Nemanja Sarovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments and additions to the Labour Act that have come within a relatively short period of time. It seems to be short, but they're significantly reducing workers' rights. Unfortunately, we are in a situation, it seems to me that today in Serbia does not take care of workers. In view of the fact that today in front of the government, you have employees of Soko Sturka, who, thanks to the Action Fund, mean the complicity of the state, robbed, their actions have been defused, it is obvious that the last time has come for employment in Serbia, that all their rights, in all possible ways, have been reduced and denied. First of all, I would like to appeal to the MPs and the government themselves to take much more account of the provisions of the Securities Market Act than the value of taking action, to try to save the value of the labour market, not to allow the Action Fund to join its, or state actions. It thus defies the actions of small shareholders, because it is obvious that this will be the summer when hundreds of thousands of workers will be robbed throughout Serbia, and it is our turn to raise our voice against such behaviour by the Action Fund and the government itself. As far as this law is concerned, a lot has already been said, in each member you have reduced the rights of workers. I have to join my colleagues, who are very dissatisfied with Article 2 concerning voluntary blood donors. There was no reason for those two additional days, which had voluntary blood donors, to be erased from the law. I think too much is said that this law will help employment in Serbia, that foreign investors will be stimulated. We have the same story since 2001, nor have we had enough foreign investments, nor have we had jobs in Serbia. On the contrary, something is happening that is quite the opposite. There is no reason for voluntary blood donors and, above all, for mothers to be discriminated against and for such provisions to be placed in the situation that they are uninteresting for employers. I mean, first of all, here at Article 4, where the text itself says it refers to the third and fourth children, and nobody mentions the fifth and sixth. I know there are few mothers in Serbia who have five or six children, but it shouldn't have been so decadent to be in a member, they become, like, citizens of the second order. The question is also for mothers with a third and fourth children, since they are allowed maternity leave of two years, whether they are in a position to be interesting for a possible new employer and whether this provision will, in fact, be a bear service to mothers who have three or four children, because it will be much harder to come to work after the adoption of this law. Also, there was no need for past working hours - from 0.5% per year to 0.4. Salaries today are extremely low, Serbian citizens are very hard to live on, hard to earn, and the fact that they are going to direct costs and there is no reason to be overbooked at the moment, when the labour market is clearly overbooked, goes with this reduction and the reduction of this percentage. I would also agree with my colleagues who criticise the right of employees to compensation, diet during work and regress for the use of annual holidays. It's one important downsizing of workers' rights so far. All in all, I say, we have restrictions in all members, and even in the last article there is no reason for these provisions of the law, which still give some privileges to women who have a third and fourth child, to be applied since 2006. It was supposed to be applied during this year, there's no reason to wait. I am sure this law will not make any difference when it comes to the employment and registration of workers in Serbia, that it certainly will not mean any interest of serious foreign investors in the Serbian economy. It's not encouraged this way. It takes a lot more and, above all, one more serious government and political stability to attract foreign investors. And to get to new jobs, you need to come up with a serious employment strategy. That's the way we can solve problems both workers and employers, that's the way the government was supposed to go, unfortunately, but it's not, and so is this ministry. In any case, the SRS MPs will not vote for this law, I am sure for a serious reason, I am sure that the citizens of Serbia see it and I want to express my dissatisfaction with the bill once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16647	Before Mr. Sarovic, the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were expecting a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, because there has been a rough violation of the rules under which the Assembly works, the relations between the Assembly and the President of the Republic, and because this law is being reviewed before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. But also because the minister expressed dissatisfaction with the adopted amendments to the bill, which was in the assembly procedure, especially because some of the givings are classified in those for which the employer must pay taxes and contributions, i.e. for which he does not have to. I expected the minister to react, promised it by the government, not satisfied with the bill, created a new assembly majority for the second bill. I expected him to enter into the essence of those provisions that were changed by amendments, which were not in line with the government's wish. However, the government has moved to review the Labour Act again and to see what else it can do for employees, or what else it can bring about from measures that may not cause a riot on the streets, and it will save some budget payments for this very difficult year, in which the budget looks only full of loans, spending, but also of loans from international monetary institutions. We're getting a bill of law that doesn't have any benefits to work in, where there's not one advantage for a woman who's given birth. And for whom do we bring bill of law here? To whom do we want to create conditions so that he can do his jobs, that he can live nicer and easier? The employers? So this is created through a framework where the government determines the economic, monetary, legal instruments on which the employer will work, not through the exploitation of workers. The measures the capitalists tried to secure their profits through working backs have led to several revolutions, catastrophic in the history of world civilization. These measures cannot be applied to employees, unemployed, mothers, blood donors in Serbia. I can't. You've got nowhere else to take them. Try to make them give, not take them. Don't defend yourself by reducing the budget, but by providing higher revenues to the budget, but not by paying more taxes, taxes, customs duties, excise duties, but by increasing the number of taxpayers; that we don't have 50 companies that pay taxes, but that we have 500, 5,000, 500 thousand companies. And this is how you close the circle of those who pay. You must also reduce the circle of those to whom the state has obligations. If you have no obligation to mothers and workers, especially to those who are out of work, and who else do you mean? To whom else do you want to fulfill your obligations in Serbia? What have you changed drastically? You changed the president of the union first. Just in case, the basic organization, the cell unionally changed the president of the union. It's like sitting somewhere on the DSS's local board in Belgrade, where Vojislav Kostunica lives, down somewhere in Doricol, and making a decision -- we shut down Vojislav Kostunica from the party and all TV groups, excluded Vojislav Kostunica from the DSS. Now let him prove he can't do it that way. So, in order for this law to enter the procedure, you have to prevent a union gathering. The best thing to do is to throw the union into a fight, to get him around himself, to worry about his own concerns, and that you and your employers are calmly abolishing the obligations you have towards the citizens of Serbia. Since I belong to a group of voluntary blood donors, I'm telling you that it's a cynical and ironic explanation that by reducing the day that a voluntary blood donor has at his disposal when you give the most precious liquid, as you say, you're speeding up the execution of this human action. I can't believe there's such a man who's going to write this without crossing and saying, "God, forgive me." Be careful, it says - this member, paid leave on the day of giving blood, is allowed to perform this human action, and you reduce it by two days. By 67% you reduce that absence, and you say -- he's not a sick man who gives blood, and the office is well organized, and in the course of the day he can take his blood and return it to work. It's not fingertips or veins. Did any of you lay there to give blood? Have any of you, who will vote for this bill, ever given blood? Will you vote for it to be reduced to one day? Are you going to vote? What kind of people are you? I gave blood, I can't vote for it, because I have people who've given blood 150 times. I have a neighbor who died because he was infected when he was giving blood. You run the campaigns via television to ensure voluntary blood donation, especially in the summer months. Now we've been asked from the Zemun Bureau to re-engage the SRS, and at the time, when blood is sold on the European market, when more and more people who are suffering from various viruses give blood, so that blood infects people, you are now preventing this healthy nation from helping those who need blood and need it. Cancel completely, so buy from the Russians artificial blood. That's good. Stop voluntary giving, buy blue blood, I can operate, even on the heart are done with that Russian blood. To let you know that people invented it and they don't depend on it anymore, but we depend, it's very expensive. Cheapest is to invite people who have honor and morality, they know what is the obligation to the sick, to push their veins, but don't reduce their rights. Count on you now having two-thirds less voluntary blood donors. If you had introduced four days, I'd say, now you have a third more donors, and you're down two-thirds. Count on two-thirds of donors less. I don't know a country in the world that can say: we have a lot of voluntary donors, let's cut down on that group of our citizens. Only because of this article would none of us raise hands for this law, just for this, but to move on to other members. What you wanted when an extraordinary idea was to stimulate the birth of a third, fourth child, by giving the mother who gave her family and Serbia three or four children to stay with those children for a little while longer, to raise them, than it has been so far, what you wanted when you wrote a new proposal for a member that no one else is clear anymore. You may have had good intentions, but be careful what you wrote - an employed woman has the right to maternity leave and the right to leave work for a third and fourth child for a total duration of two years. In paragraph 2, a list of those who have the same right is expanded, but be careful what you say: a woman who has one, two or three children, and in the next birth two or more children, has two years of leave. So a woman who has three children, if she has one child, has no right to leave for two years, but only if she has two or more. Is there anyone who has graduated from elementary school and added three and two to how much they are, what kind of discrimination this is? These two attitudes are not in agreement at all with each other, attitude 1 and attitude 2. If she's right about four kids, she's asking a mother who has three to have two to count as four? You had three months to write six members of the law, or only one if you wanted to change a warm meal and a regression, but in collaboration with Minister Dinkic you found that you needed more money and that you didn't have enough money to give. And if you don't, sell the official cars, if that's not enough, sell the computers, if that's not enough, sell the government building, but don't reduce giving to women who need to have children. Last time Serbia's defence remains, take it from the children, but break the bank and the aspara bank last, when there are no more dinars left, and not first, let's pick up mothers and children. I hope that the Legislative Committee will be seated, where it is, perhaps somewhere abroad, to determine that it is impossible to pass a law like this, in which Article 94a will have a first and second position and that no one else's head hurts for it. I didn't hear in public that it was required to decrease from 0.5% to 0.4% of the base of past work for each year's internship. I didn't hear anyone ask for it. How come the government's idea of reducing from 0.5% to 0.4% for each year's internship past work? What's the excuse for this idea? How can you change something that exists for years now? And what we've been doing all these years, how it's possible that a man who works for 25 years, in the 25th year, has 0.5% for each year of internship, and when he enters the 26th year, he's 0.4% and 25 years old. Is that going to come down to 0.1%, will you cancel your past work with four amendments and supplement the Labour Act. Why is it shrinking, what's the reason, besides that the government doesn't have enough resources? A government that cannot provide the means to fulfil its obligations must not reduce its obligations, but to question its trust here. You, gentlemen of the ruling majority, must not allow the government, which is unable to fulfil its obligations, to stamp you here as people who will approve of anything and allow you to remain in power. When you took over power in Serbia, past work was 0.5% per year, and now 0.4%. Voluntary donors had three days, and now they have a day. Will you be able to justify in front of your constituents that the conditions of life have been tightened since you've been in power? Will each of you in your midst be able to justify it? The severance, of course, has so far been that it can't be less than a third of the profit for every year you've completed, but since you need money, you've said up to 10 years a third and over 10 years a quarter. Why didn't you say over 15 years? Now that you've come to these exact, empirical data, that exactly after 10 years, there can be no more thirds of the severance, it has to be a quarter. Do you see how pointless it is to enter into a law-making procedure that is worse for people than the previous one? Is that even possible in one legal state? Of course, when the employer cancels the contract, he is declared incompetent and found there to punish what the employer is chasing him from work, to reduce his giving. And in the end of Article 191, in which at least one position has a surplus, because you say that a worker who has illegally discontinued a working relationship has the right to return to work if required. Furthermore, in Section 4, you say - if the employer asks him not to go back to work, the court may refuse to ask him to return to work. So what's this poor guy doing, what's his request for him to come back for? Look, he's been illegally fired, he's looking for justice in court, and that justice lasts for two or three years. During that time, he has to work somewhere to survive, and what he's doing somewhere, you refuse to pay him back the damage the employer owes him. Three years later, when he gets slow, so happy, the employer says, "Now I'm asking him not to work with me anymore, and that was his wish." Then why do we need a court, why do we need a worker's right not to be targeted, if it's illegal, what do we need the law for? Write - the employer can hire a worker and pay him some severance, determine how much that severance is and know that we are all in the hands of the employer. What kind of employer it is, is protected as a sacred cow, can say to an employee - you don't work here tomorrow, has the law of severance which will pay for him and it's done with the job, there's no security, no credit can be taken, children can't be educated because the worker doesn't know, even if he's the most conscious and the best, whether he's willing of the employer. Tomorrow he can lose his job, get insolvent, come to grab his house, because his kid's been schooling at some college that he's been in since you've been in power, paying high school fees. It is immoral to vote for this law, it was immoral to submit it, and it is immoral to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16649	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Now comes the announced order of speakers, Nemanja Sarovic, then Natasa Jovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time before us is the Labour Act and who knows which time Minister Lalovic is not here to listen to the objections we have. I think, Mr. Markovic, it was very bad that you made it possible for him to address this National Assembly, to adjust the work of the National Assembly as it suits Minister Lalovic, and he returned it to us, of course, by abandoning us once again, not wanting to hear the remarks that the MPs have on this bill. It was difficult to assume after previous amendments and the addition of the Labour Act that some others could be devised that would further and deeper worsen the situation of workers in Serbia. However, although you have conducted a campaign through the public that only some provisions will be changed, which have been adopted here by some alleged error during the previous adoption cycle and which, among other things, brought the adoption law back to us, there have been a few more changes that have not been spoken of in public and that are certainly sufficiently and additionally burdening the workers in Serbia. This explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the law, that the adoption of a number of amendments of Members of the People's Parliaments in the adoption had the consequence that the provisions of certain laws are the opposite, cannot stand, because you do not in this way submit to the National Assembly and the Legislative Committee, which has twice sat in breaks after the adoption of certain amendments to the previous Labour Act and have established how it is possible to continue working, which are the amendments that are necessary. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia says that the National Assembly and these lawyers who are supposed to be peers, who are members of the Legislative Committee, simply do not know their jobs. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned, firstly there is one that abolishs the employer's obligation to request the opinion of the ministries responsible for work and health affairs when introducing night work. As early as that initial debate, we pointed out that it was important for persons who had been employed for 15 years and that this would represent an additional measure and have had at least so much impact as would have had the control of the ministry, and thus the government, established. It is now said to be an excessive administration and to make it difficult for public enterprises to work, in a way leading to temporary suspension of certain activities, e.g. in the bakery industry, health and social protection. Then I ask you why, in the last three months, since this law came into force, there has been no disturbance in the bakery industry, health and social protection. It's been more than three months, and if these provisions had had any similar effects, it would have been shown by now. Simply, it is extremely hypocritical to say something like this, especially in order to make it impossible to perform medical services that provide emergency medical attention. What are you saying? That someone who's against this law against it? Of course not, but the effects of these provisions are not and cannot be so, and the best evidence of that is that the previous three months all these services have functioned immaculately and no influence has been given to the Labour Act. Article 2 further reduces the rights of employees. This time, despite the action you have led in the previous days, which is an action that has been conducted in the past years, and this is, in the wake of the government and the previous governments' commitment, and it will certainly be mandatory and some of the following, to ensure that as many voluntary blood donors as possible. In a practically brutal way, you reduce the right to a three-day leave and abolish those two additional days that workers could schedule when they give blood or when they need it in another situation. You say it will be enough to allow the employee not to go to work that day, but you forget that giving blood is an expression of some social solidarity. You who decide to share a part of their health with others in some of the most humane way help those who find themselves in such a need, forget, and I don't think that's good. It's hard to say for this short time something more, but it's necessary for the members of the 3rd and 4th that you're supposed to specify the right to maternity leave and leave for a child. I really don't know how you can, something that was completely covered by one member and what was perfectly regulated, you are now regulating with two members of the law, expanding that legislation. And most importantly, you can see that one attitude that existed in article 94 is deleted and then you just transfer it to article 94a. After that you add a few more pointless provisions, you abolish the right of a mother who had three children, unless she gives birth after that two or more, to those two years. What is still very important, Article 30 of the amendment and the addition of the law have regulated rights: so those mothers who gave birth to a third and fourth child in the period from 23 March to today retain those rights, mothers who will do so after 1 January 2006, will have the rights, but those who are born from the day of entry into force of the law until 1 January 1st will not have the right to do so. I really don't know who might, I call on anyone from the ruling coalition to explain this argument or simply accept the amendment of the SRS and to correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16651	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the recent adoption of the Labour Law, so also those amendments adopted by the parliament of the Serbian Parliament, Minister Lalovic is now seeking amendments. He was not only extremely cynical and boastful in his statements at the expense of the workers in Serbia, but by this bill, by a completely immoral proposal, he showed that his morale was not a stronger side to people seeking protection, from you first, because amendments were adopted and some rights were returned to the workers. And he went one step and two steps further through Kragujevac's visit, when he offered the workers of the Zastava-Set products factory in the phases, so he said who applied for it and that deadline would get more severance, and as the days passed, it would shrink. He made a list of how many people need to be fired and it's really one matchmaking manner, which I have to say, which minister has on him. He may be able to talk to his former and failed trade unions, but Serbian workers, with protection from SRS MPs, do not want to talk to him that way. These amendments, adopted in February, which some of the workers' rights have been returned to, are now being adjudicated through amendments and additions to the law that the absent minister has proposed to us. Just so I remind you, those of you who may not know it, and the public, that the minister is at the same time and I am really not surprised, but I am limited to behavior, above all, the DSS, who has its prime minister and who is the backbone of this government, that we cannot observe that all of this is done to workers and employees in Serbia by one minister who has a party of three MPs. If you are willing to put up with it, that he blackmails you, that he gives you laws and proposals of such a law, over which some of you have just spoken, while Mr Nikolic spoke openly, then it is your business and your conscience. We want to vote on this law and amendment in the day of voting, and we Serbian radicals have suggested that each of these members be deleted, to express our clear protest and try to protect already the powerless workers today in Serbia, whose employers, not all of them, of course, but individual skins. This first member, i.e. erasing Section 3 in Article 62 of the existing law, speaks enough to support what I have been saying so far. There are employers in Serbia, and this is also expressed in the employees of the C market, and you know what the C market is like, where they are not able to do so. small shareholders and employees to exercise their rights, to disrespect neither work time nor days off nor vacation. You've seen how many employees in Soko Sturka have been seeking protection from us, the Serbian Radicals, because of the latest affair over Soko Sturka. These are things that in these hot summer days repeat from day to day. It is clear that people, employees of Serbia, will be further disbursed and that many of them will be fired. Because you are employers, those who are unconscious and those who have made a fortune in haste and acquired enormous capital in murky business – one such typical example is Bogoljub Karic, who is also being complained about by employees in that television and other company, that he does not pay them in time for earnings – giving them the opportunity to overcome the jurisdiction of the judicial authority and not have an employee, although the court has found it through the irrefutable facts that the employee has received an unwarranted notice, to return to work, but to give him some poor severance. What will happen to you and the Assembly as a legislative authority, if you do not wonder here and if you, as MPs, and I mean you from the ruling structures, agree to such obvious blackmails as Lalović, who does not stop at anything, so address the workers and tell you in your face that you are also part of some crime. Remember what he said to the parliamentary majority, to all of us who at that time made most of us vote on those amendments, that we had, as he put it, criminal labour law. Where you will commit a greater crime by one minister, the holder of the executive authority, than that in Article 2, and this has been said a lot today, to volunteer blood donors, to allow them to use only one day, because they have done one of the most human acts. No, it would be best if Lalović, who I openly doubted had given blood in his life, as many of you – unlike you, was a member, conditionally said, of the gentler sex, but through the actions of the SRS, I used this opportunity to show by example how help can be given to those who need the most – just writes that all these workers and those who work on the roads, who dig trenches, who do the worst jobs, in mines, after three hours of blood giving should get up, quick, happy and chili to go, go down to the spear and do really the hardest jobs. The larger cynic in the government of Vojislav Kostunica is currently missing from Minister Lalovic, because he wants not only to humiliate the employees, but also those who will be conscious, because you are probably aware of what the result of this vote is, to make the employees in Serbia more miserable, even worse. And the question for you, can it be worse than what we have in Serbia, through the situation we have, from north to south of Serbia, everywhere it's black, everywhere the workers are unhappy and demand and cry out for their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16653	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. Here you go. Let the People's Messenger Miljko Čevrovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16654	Mr. President, otherwise I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure, but now that I've received my word in order, I'll immediately say what I wanted to say in my own Rules of Procedure. I wanted to report to the members of 198 and 199 on parliamentary matters. I wanted to ask you to, for the sake of economics, allow us to ask parliamentary questions to Minister Lalovic when he is in the O.R., which concerns the work of his ministry and the application of a law that we have previously passed, i.e. so that we can get acquainted with the way the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolutions is applied, and I think that's very important. My request would go that way. For this economic reason, I wanted to say that I am giving up the discussion, because Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic presented the full position of DSo to amend the Labour Act. I will not return, of course, to Snezana Lakicevic brought forth and repeated our remarks regarding the adoption of the Labour Act and our suspicion that there were certain abuses, and I will not return to that now. I think we said enough about that yesterday. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to you about your instructions to me yesterday. You told me that it would be good and that you would give me the Rules of Procedure, and that it was time for me as Vice President to get to know the Rules of Procedure in detail, and everything concerns my question to you, which I will read: explain to me in what member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the replica is not allowed? Your answer was that it was Article 104. I listened to you and I met the contents of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 doesn't say that. It doesn't say in any other member. So in this Rules of Procedure there is no explicit ban on replication. You wanted to explain something else to me, and now I'm going to allow myself, as your vice president, in accordance with my obligation to help you in your work, to give you some advice or legal instruction. You wanted to answer to me by your authority as prescribed, I cannot find which member is in this new Rules of Procedure, which says that you are assessing whether someone is offended, misread, etc. It is the authority given to the president of the National Assembly, the chairman, on which he appreciates whether there is a right to replication from this Rules of Procedure. A new rule which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure cannot be introduced on the basis of that authorisation. This authorisation applies both to the first replica and to the replica on the replica, and to the replica on the replica, etc. So that means your ability to appreciate whether there's a basis for a line right, and that doesn't mean the possibility of introducing a new rule that would make the replica impossible in total. I don't think you did it well, and it's not nice that you came to me like that yesterday. It was a little silly on my account, but I listened to you and I read the Rules of Procedure from cover to cover. I have to tell you, you were wrong, it doesn't say anything that he can't replicate. I end up, I stay on the proposal, and I think it is good, because of the economic and efficiency of Parliament's work, as far as you are able, to allow Minister Lalovic, when he is present, to ask parliamentary questions, because there is the possibility that these parliamentary questions and answers to them will be immediately received, and I repeat, my parliamentary question will refer to the follow-up of the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes, because I think it is very interesting and important for the legislature.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16655	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. So both answers. I let the minister leave the assembly and go to the government's session, because he has to explain the law he informed us about this morning, which many care about, about connecting the staff. It's very important for many citizens. He'll be back. In the event that the principle debate is concluded, I will certainly allow when there is a debate on details, or if you agree, to prepare an answer in the meantime. As I suggested yesterday, it means that the stenogram issue can be passed on, too, to forward your question from the stenogram which you would have given, so when the debate is in particular that the minister gives an answer to the parliamentary question. That pleases you, doesn't it? Thank you. (Milan Markovic: Can I ask questions now? ) Place it now, please, so let's quote it from the stenogram. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16656	Thank you, I think this is useful for the efficiency of the work of the National Assembly. Here's what my question is. My first question is that the minister gives us an answer to how many procedures for peaceful settlement of work disputes have been completed so far, in accordance with the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which we adopted on 24 November 2004. Second question: whether the Director of the Agency has been appointed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law and as provided for in Article 55. The law. The third question: was there a choice of peacemakers and arbitarians and their entry in the register, in accordance with this law, and what was to be done by 31 December 2004? A brief explanation. I believe it is an over-the-counter task of the government, but the task of these National Assemblys, the interest of MPs and the state interest, is to pass laws that will apply in practice, and the government is obliged to follow these rules. Another issue concerning the organisation of the ministry's work. I would like the minister to say how much the ministry he runs has an assistant, how many deputies and how many people are employed at a certain and indefinite time, from the moment Mr Lalovic became a minister. I thank you once again for understanding, and I think this is a good way to make the work of the Assembly effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16657	Once again, with an apology that yesterday's collegiate favor with an hour's interruption has caused such a heated debate, I must explain it to everyone. The 101st article reads, "If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about the MP from the other parliamentary group," it did not happen yesterday, "quoting his name and name or function", it did not happen yesterday, "that is to say, he misreads his presentation", it did not happen yesterday, "the national MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to a parliamentary group," that did not happen yesterday, "in the name of the parliamentary group the right to reply has the president of the parliamentary group," you did not. So none of the conditions were met, but I allowed you anyway, and that's why I asked you to speak after the break, to look at the Rules of Procedure and to see that there is no basis. Anyway, I allowed it, and you spoke for seven minutes. Otherwise: "The decision in cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly. The replica cannot last longer than three minutes." It is within the framework of the decision that there is exactly that argument that there is no replica on the replica, but only in the Rules of Procedure. It's a common interpretation. Thank you all for understanding. You're satisfied with each other's explanation? Thank you. We're continuing our work. Dragoljub Stamenkovic came, since he was just not there, he worked, of course. Here is the word of the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, then the National MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16658	I'm asked some DSS MPs what I was doing, did I dig? I was preparing a committee session, because unlike you, we are obliged to work in the Serbian Parliament. You have been removed from this obligation by changing your Rules of Procedure, and you can do other things. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at some point in time past, at the time of the SFRY and the SRJ, there were some rules and certain rights that were declared to be shared to the workers. There was a promise that the state and that the work organisation couldn't keep. The worker had rights, but it's a question of whether the rights could have been consummated. Of course, by changing the system, by changing the way it works, these rights have been tried to be reduced to one real level. None of us believed that idea: "work didn't work, play your radio". None of us, especially with Serbian radicals, believed in the idea – "no one can pay me as little as I can to work." We wanted our labour law to be adapted to European labour laws, to protect certain categories of employees and certain categories of persons, but to find a relationship between employers and workers in which employers will be satisfied and workers will have a minimum of their rights. Now we are aware of the fact that a huge number of workers are working in slave terms. Just look at the gems in your places, those Chinese shops or whatever they're doing. Workers work longer than full-time, receive minimum fees, workers are absolutely disbursed. Every bar, every store says "needs a new worker" etc. The government of the Republic of Serbia is now joining the protection of employers. The greater the number of fired workers, the greater social misery, the crisis, the less and less workers have rights, and employers become absolute masters and their lives and their labour force. I am truly surprised that the government is joining and is turning to the absolute protection of employers. I'll just tell you a few categories. I used to be union president, and I know what that union work looks like, but I'm also a voluntary blood donor. Every day we have an appeal for "give blood," and now it's said that whoever gives blood... It's a terrible explanation that only healthy people give it, so they're fed up with the day they give blood and don't have to get an extra two days. When one disaster, tragedy, all that time that an employer has to pay or the state pays, it won't cost anything if we save a few human lives. I really don't see a reason why the government doesn't give an explanation under which conditions nightly work can be introduced, but only the union is asked about it. There's a lot of abuse. Look at what's going on in the union. The unions are turned to political parties, to the one who pays more. Today, employers, in fact, are handling unions. However, there should be some way to ask the government about it. As far as Article 191 is concerned, I really don't understand. Someone can pay for their mistake by firing the worker and then making a decision in court to pay him double what he lost during a time he didn't work and to be on the street again. That's amazing, that's impossible. I think that we need to keep a lot more accounts about those people who are left at work, to protect these people's rights more, because soon we will have very few employees, and precisely because of these laws, employers will behave even worse, there will be even less wages, people will be fired and it will be worse in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16659	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared. I'll just read two notices. The session of the Child Rights Subcommittee, scheduled for Friday, July 1, 2005, at 11.00 p.m., is cancelled. The session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, scheduled for Friday, July 1, 2005, at 9:00 p.m., will be held today, June 30th, 2005, at 15.00 p.m., in the fourth floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16660	Honorable MPs, workers in Serbia, and this is the general name for all those living from their work, had the misfortune that, with DOS coming to power, one of the most important resors took over Milovanovic as a former union activist. The consequences of the ministry's leadership and the entire government were best felt by workers across Serbia, from its entry into office, to the termination of office or the fall of the government of Zoran Zivkovic. Unfortunately for Serbia's workers, after an early parliamentary election in December and the formation of the government of the democratic bloc, this very important ministry, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica and so on. The democratic bloc, taken over by Minister Lalovic, with his large SDP party. The three MPs, together with him, and he as minister of labour and social protection, with huge problems, also has time to be an MP in the National Assembly, and there is only so much time to show up when to vote on key laws or when it comes to the majority of the democratic bloc, the 126th or 127th vote. This is one of the system laws, and it is incomprehensible that this is how the government is dealing with the Prime Minister, when it comes to the above-mentioned rights of workers, that their position and their difficult fate, in which they have found themselves, is now dependent on so-called. employers. Honoring exceptions, honor to honest people who can bear that name: employer. But unfortunately, the good majority of those who call themselves employers are actually sanctioned and war profiteers, the profits of this transition that the DOS has begun to be implemented, as well as the democratic bloc is trying to continue with accelerated reforms, so workers' rights to work and compensation for their work are such that life from that compensation is no longer possible for most workers in Serbia. The evidence is the proposed law adopted by the assembly, especially what the government did and the way it did, proposing amendments to the law and defying the parliamentary majority, which voted for amendments that did not correspond to Minister Lalovic and the Serbian government. Reduced time or paid leave for voluntary blood donors from three to one day is shameful. That doesn't have to explain much. Many of those rights, which had voluntary blood donors on some other grounds, were effectively abolished. But did it come to this point that the government is also seeking to abolish their right to leave for three days? About the right to a paid leave for mothers who have three or four children, there is no minister here to ask him a question to interpret the position of Article 1 94. What does it mean for a third and fourth child for a total duration of two years? Does that mean if a mother uses a third child for two years, she won't have one day for a fourth child? As a lawyer, although I have a lot of experience, I'm interpreting how it's written here in language, logically. About the severances, and what's written in article 7 of the amendment and the addition of this labour law, there won't be many in the situation of taking advantage of them, getting paid severances. I especially need to comment on Article 10. There have been a lot of comments concerning Article 191’s position that, if the employer so requests, the court may refuse to request the employee to return to work, with the employer being obliged to pay the employee the damages within the meaning of Articles 2 and 3 of this Article in a double amount. Does this view, proposed by the governments, bring down the entire legal order of the Serbian state? The question is, does he even exist? Do these harshly violate the Constitution and all the positive laws? Whether an institution of justice is being destroyed, a verdict by one legal matter, and this is a grave injustice. If the court, on the basis of the fact, finds that the illegal worker has stopped working with the employer, that his lawsuit is a factual request to return to work, what does this mean - that the employer may not accept a court ruling? So this would be in the execution process, because he won't accept it, he'll offer a double amount of compensation. If the amount of compensation is small, he will offer normally. If compensation is two, five thousand, for ten thousand he will be rid of that worker, although the worker has won the dispute through court order and in the name of justice and the law should return, work and live from his work. I can't understand either the minister or the government, and I couldn't understand the parliamentary majority who would vote for this. It seems that everything that is happening to us in the whole state of Serbia is under a lot of pressure, so-called. Industrialists, Serbian hosts. There's no chance of a union here, no opportunity for the union to be organized and to fight for the rights of the workers. What to say to workers from privatised companies when most of them – again, I say, honor the exceptions, the owners of majority capital who, with good intention, went through the privatisation of these enterprises and continued the activity of these companies, that these companies live, that workers work and receive wages – the so-called Ulysses. The majority of the owners lost their jobs, in the roughest way chicened, evicted, harassed by majority owners. Labour inspection, as the first instance, to which workers addressed and addressed, has not protected any workers across Serbia without talking about the mass of workers who were chicanted, expelled from those companies that were privatised. Where is the role of Minister Lalovic, the entire ministry, and with this inspection of the work? Not to mention judicial protection, which lasts for two and more years and rarely which court proceedings are completed so that these workers are protected. Finally, since the president of the National Assembly said he was the minister at the cabinet's session, I wanted to ask him a question, but let him be over the stenogram, because I don't believe he will come back today, because he didn't want to be in this room today and hear the discussion of Serbian Radical Party MPs here. He has no arguments for what is proposed in these 15 members - no arguments, no human, no moral, let alone legal. The question is: how many employees in privatised companies through auction and tender, during the time since Minister Lalovic took over the post, were admitted to work in these companies, and how many were left without a job? I'd like an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16661	I thank you, this was a parliamentary question, entered into a stenogram and I would ask the secretary and the service to deliver this issue to the competent minister as well. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. After him, the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my regret that the minister has avoided this debate. Normally, there'll be some excuse or some excuse, but the fact is that he's not here and we can't ask him one basic question, who he made these laws for, if they are who they are. I'll probably do it most of the time with my colleagues who said it before, but we're not telling you MPs, we're telling you the public. It's important, if they need to, and a hundred times to hear what's coming to them, what this government brings them and this ministry in particular. Let's start, say, from a bunch of anomalies in this law, which we can say anything about, we just can't say that it's social, that it takes care of the worker and the citizens of Serbia at all. I'll start with what's supposed to be a maternity leave, where she says, for the third and fourth children in total, and maybe it's misread, but it's not precise, it's been two years. Earlier, we had a law, which proposed this ministry, where we personally represented me and the other MPs, the state of the white plague that is ruling in Serbia, about how empty our villages are, how much fewer families decide to have children and the average in Serbia is the country where the least children are born. Now, instead of helping, to get it started, we are now, with these restrictive measures, going to make it even more impossible. It's a follow-up, some continuity of the government of this and the past, which all it does is try to make it impossible for families and children. So, to go back to the past, scholarships have accumulated, all possible benefits, which once existed, are now slowly abolished. Also, there's night work being introduced here at the small door, and if you put the fences on that it takes the union's opinion to get it, what do we get? We are getting by expanding this kind of corruption that the government in Serbia, the government and anywhere else is going to expand to other possible situations, where people who are in the union, one, two or three, are going to approve of it, because of their own personal benefits, because they are saving themselves, their own family, until they are not overly interested in what happens to the others. The next very ugly thing is about voluntary blood donation. We've already absorbed here what's the problem with the amount of blood that exists and there's always some action to give as much blood as possible, but it's still not enough. We used to have that for blood donors one day, the one that gives and two more days after that. Now we've only got that day and the next day has to start working. Since we've heard here, all together, that there's artificial blood, I've started to fear, since this government is known for corruption affairs, for an import lobby that finances the government, that maybe you haven't thought of something to start importing blood, so that's why you're trying to narrow it down. I wouldn't be surprised. Also, one of the amazing things that was caused by nothing is the reduction of past work, the retail suspension from 0.5 to 0.4 percent per year of internship. I don't know how you think you're gonna justify it or how you're gonna justify it. You all live among friends, neighbors, and I don't know how you have the nerve to talk to them. Also, I'm speaking for the public, you may adopt something, but apparently by your interest in participating in the debate, and there's no way you're going to adopt any of this. You probably think it's a good thing there's no collective agreement, that a working man from work can be expelled, thrown out on the street, tried for two, three, five years, depends on what our judiciary is like, and when he gets a conviction to come back, then that employer who fired him and told him, and he can tell him, I don't need you anymore. So we're back to square one. You didn't do anything, you just wrote and you solved the problem with the employers, that without any explanation, they deal with the workers. Also, I guess that's part of these tendencies of destroying workers and at all of our country's citizens and the next law, and I have to mention it, which is being prepared, the story of extending your retirement, and I expect to see how, in what way and with what cheek you can talk about it. If that's how you plan to solve pension problems, keep people at work until they die, then it's a very, very bad solution for you. The question for MPs, the people who are going to vote, I can't say in advance who's going to vote, there may be moral people who won't vote for this, I need to ask you who of you can look your neighbors in the eye. I invite all your friends, neighbors, to explain to them why you will vote for this immoral law, to explain how it is possible to think that it is good to introduce nighttime work, to abolish the voluntary giving of blood, to abolish our families' right of two years of age and to reduce past labour. I call upon you to influence you, your friends, your family, your family, to tell you that this is not normal or that you try to explain how you think this is all normal. If you succeed, then it would be a different matter, but until then I invite you not to vote for this bill, because it's totally immoral.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16663	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Rodoljub Gačević, fourteen minutes both, and you will then be guided.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I speak of amendments to the Labour Law I thought I would ask Minister Lalovic, but he is not here, so I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia: why is there no diesel fuel in Serbia? The sanctions, as far as I know, are gone, Panchevo is not bombed, boasting of a positive assessment of the Performance Study. Here this morning Milos Aligrudić informs us that we have entered the order of the United States' most privileged states. You've almost changed the Excise Act, and that's precisely because of the price of oil derivatives, and yet nothing. The lines at the pumps, the people with the empty canisters, at plus 35 degrees, waiting for the oil tank to arrive. The harvest is on the threshold, fruit harvests are on the move, and the government has been playing: it wants to literally leave Serbia without bread. After only a few months of the adoption of the Labour Act, then the re-vote, because of all the well-known facts, is again in front of the MPs, although only as amendments and additions to the Labour Act. It is obvious that the originally adopted Labour Law was not at the will of employers, some of whom were likely to put pressure on both the government and the minister to make some adjustments. We remember voting on amendments to the draft labour law. As the amendment by the MPs was adopted, the minister felt more and more uncomfortable because he knew that he would have ugly problems explaining to many powerful employers how it was possible that so many amendments had passed, which in some ways provide protection for employees. The speed you are changing to pass the Labour Act is proof that the Serbian government is under the influence of the powers that from the shadows correct everything that doesn't suit them. You remember the reactions in the media by many employers, their associations and individuals, how this is not how to pass the law at all. Now it took some time for the government to re-emerge with amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Your excuse is that some amendments are mutually opposed, illogical and that they should be deleted or changed. How exactly is it about members of the law regarding the absence of workers who voluntarily give their blood, how exactly is it about maternity leave? Again, the problem is a warm meal and a regression, according to that famous 118th article, which was so much said in both the Assembly and the media. You're also changing a member of 189 with regard to the resignation of an employee and his right to remain in office for a period of time. This Article 189 may be amended only to mitigate what follows in Article 191 which reads: "If the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work, by the employer's obligation to pay the employee the compensation for the damages in terms of Articles 2 and 3 of this Article in a double amount". So, the employer is placed above the law and above the court, regardless of what the worker may be damaged, abused, stolen by inadequate pay for overtime. So, according to this article, the court should be placed in office of the employer. It is that you have written words of your own, not necessarily, but this is the only form that allows an employer through court to violate the rights of an employee. As a difficult situation for employers, you say he will pay the employee the damages and double the amount. That damage may be small, miserable, but what's worst is that a man loses his job. Article 191 of this amended form will now serve employers to free, in an elegant way, employees who dare ask their employers for their rights, and these rights can be obtained under the existing Labour Act. Many workers who would like to seek justice in court will be discouraged at the very beginning to launch a judicial dispute. What also bothered employers is the law provides for a two-day absence for voluntary blood donors, plus a day when valuable fluid is given. Such a proposal, which the government proposes, therefore, to remove two days of absence, will primarily reflect the amount of blood collected by the daily transfusion services throughout Serbia, and it is known that it is precisely in businesses and factories that the largest response of voluntary donors is. Let the minister think about when they begin to reduce the blood supply at our health centers, how smart it is to change this article 77. It is not a waste of time when the opposition submits amendments to a bill, the waste of time is actually when the Serbian government returns to MPs after a few months the same law with amendments and additions. If amendments to the SRS MPs had been accepted, there would not have been a dozen amendments to those laws on the agenda of this extraordinary session, and this assembly majority had voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16665	The word of the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević, you have seven and a half minutes at your disposal. I would also like to inform the MPs that this is the last speaker on the list of applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16666	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as a man, can't make peace with the fact that, year after year, more and more work has been done, the rights of workers are getting smaller, the humanity of work is getting lower, the conditions in which workers are working harder and worse. Once there was self-management, however, the system boasted that any exploitation of workers was eliminated, we know that they were farces, because at that time it was the largest exploitation of workers by the unemployed. I'll give you an example of a woman who's been on sick leave for 21 years, I don't have to say her name. In my company, I also know cases like that. It was said that the work was motivated, that the conditions of motivation were created, but it could not be sanctioned, so it was motivated by various premiums. These are all negativity and weaknesses that should have been eliminated. However, as the DOS came to power, instead of fixing and eliminating these things, there was a real collapse, so I mean the rights of workers and the creation of poor working conditions. Namely, no employer who bought a company at the time has invested a penny in creating better working conditions. Of course, it was expected to invest money and create more humane working conditions, but it was nothing. Everyone watched as soon as they pulled out what he had given, or that money he had invested, and then there was an unprecedented exploitation of workers in the hardest and worst working conditions. Not to be inconclusive, so let me say, a lot of government duties should be removed from the employer, I think the government should find a way, or form, and so solve the issue, the relationship between the employer and the employee. It should create this social dialogue between employers and workers not to go to the expense of employers. There are many cases, so let's say giving blood doesn't necessarily mean that paying two, or sometimes it's been three days, that it's going to come down to the employer's burden, let it be humanized, let it go to the burden of the whole society. It's no problem to regulate, but what happens then. I've recently been in the blood work at the Red Cross Community Committee in Prepolje, the SRS Municipal Committee responded, we all applied for blood, and I'm one of them, but I've seen that only a dozen of us, so many of us have given blood, there's been very little youth. So, for one thing, the youth that was once first and impacted, was inexhaustibly hot for blood donors, and she was gone. The youth acts pragmaticly, where it is no use, it does not. There's less humanization in society, and there's more crime, so I'm afraid if it continues to reduce humanization in society this way, that there will be more and more cases of kidnapping of citizens across the street to take his blood, to take out some organ for a transplant, and thank God there's a lot of these various private clinics and how it's going to happen, as we're looking at in movies from the West. All that we're looking at there, in a few years it's going to come to us, so what we're supposed to mean is, paying for three days that used to be, I think it's supposed to stay, not only to be considered for one day to pay, and that might be some Saturday. It was before, and I think it's justified, that there would be as much youth as possible, that there would be as many workers in the blood supply campaigns, they were given those three days that they could use when they needed it. So I'm not going to list any more why there will be a greater response in these actions of voluntary blood donation. It's the same case with maternity leave. After three months of maternity leave, the so-called care for up to a year-old child's age for the first child, but it's divided, and it's not on the employer's burden, in the end it's refunding, but there are very bad conditions for a worker, or mother who is on maternity leave to benefit from it. There's a scale there, applied today, depending on how long it's been in an uninterrupted working relationship, so one scale is up to three months, then four, five, six, and then there's that scale of payment of 100% maternity leave. It's the same case for night work. So this is all about humanity, taking care of birth and pouring crocodile tears at birth, and a little bit of what seems to be in that practical field. It used to be 30-40% paid night work, and now it's planned to pay 26%. This is the thing that needs to go to the employer's burden. Why? Let the employer think about whether he has any interest in working at night, and if he doesn't have some cancellation, because there are the most inhumane conditions. I was working on what's-his-name. Third shift, these are the most difficult conditions when someone has to work, regardless of the theory that they should sleep during the day, and at night to work and vice versa. He can't, because it's hard to do it all in practice. Usually the worker does other jobs during the day, he may not have any obligations, but he can't sleep during the day, so this is unimaginable and should be returned to those other conditions, burdened, so if the employer has an account, he can go ahead and work, but let him pay justly how much it amounts to for such conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16667	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not taken advantage of their rights under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to the 41st point of the agenda: – I would like to inform you, since this is the 41st point, and the next 42nd item of the agenda, the same ministry is the promoter in front of the Government, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. I'd be happy to tolerate it if it's spoken for both points united. Otherwise, there's not a united discussion, so we understand each other. This 41st point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things entered in the Register, and the 42nd Point of the Agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. So full of tolerance for speakers to talk about both. Thank you so much for understanding. In this regard, they will decide whether they will only add the list to the second point or be the first to the list. Every MP's group will decide. I'm talking about the efficiency of the work and focus on the problem. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is scheduled for parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour 3 minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Dr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Business, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16668	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the line of that president that you suggested, if I may present an opening statement for both laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16669	I'm sorry, but don't. A member group has already proposed a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16670	So, while we stick to the agenda, we will first discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Publishing Law on mobile things entered in the register. The enforcement of the law on the right of exercise in mobile matters entered in the register should be carried out by the Agency for Economic Registers, which is competent to maintain the register of rights of movement and rights. As you are probably familiar with, the Agency began work immediately after the adoption of the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. The register of economic operators and the Register of Financial Lising Contracts has been running since 1 January 2005. However, when it comes to the Register of Stocks, there is a problem that is necessary to address the work of this register. Namely, the Law establishing the right to exercise on movable matters entered in the register in Article 67 provides - if the decision of the competent court establishes a non-state stock on a moving matter or claim, in accordance with the law governing the enforcement procedure or by other law by 1 January 2004, the right of the championship to settle shall be calculated from the date of the court decision, if the trustee submits a request for the registration of the stock in the register by 15 January 2004. That deadline expired more than a year ago. The conditions for the start of work of the register of rights on movable matters are the change of the deadline mentioned, which seems to have just been proposed. Only in this way can it be ensured that priorities in relation to previously acquired publishing rights are protected. Otherwise, legal chaos would be created because according to the Law on Publishing Law, priority would be obtained only at the time of the application for registration of the stock to the Agency for Economic Registers. Additional standards are also proposed to regulate the registration procedure. These standards are necessary for the Agency to keep a register in accordance with the law and for the parties to be familiar with their procedural rights when entering the register. The proposed amendments have been prepared with consultations with the Agency for Economic Registers and in line with the needs of the parties that already appear to the Agency and present their needs. The proposed solutions solve all of the above problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16671	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, do they want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by members of the SRS parliamentary group. The first has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric. We will probably have an hour's break, and only then is MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16672	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been really shocked by the proposal of the President of the Assembly that, without respect for the Rules of Procedure, we do not have our Rules of Procedure formally ahead of us, although we have been working virtually for a week now, to discuss two points of the agenda in a united debate, although it is not formally proposed and adopted. Is it little that we got three days before the start of this session agenda of 45 points? Of course, your clear intention was to make it impossible for the MPs to submit amendments and thus to do what was really the work of the MP. Is it little that we discussed these days in a united debate on 12, 8 and 7 points of the agenda? So today we have a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things entered in the register and the Minister here has obviously prepared himself to talk about both laws, and then shortened his preliminary exposure to one and a half sentences, said that these amendments and additions solve all possible problems in the field of hostage law and that they are amended and complemented in accordance with the needs of the parties. We in the SRS think that this is not so, that the essence of these amendments and additions is quite different and every time, I said that yesterday, when they are adopted, or when they propose amendments and additions to laws consisting of several points of the new law, the point is that something is hidden that is completely irrelevant to the citizens and users of certain services, rather than something which is the current need of a ruling coalition or government of the Republic of Serbia, or one of the coalition partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, through the various agencies that we talked about here, which through many laws became current in the Republic of Serbia, were employed mostly by party, we often talked about, officials and listeners. There are also people who are of interest to the parties currently ruling in Serbia and there is something else that is not covered. It is also necessary in the area of the hostage right to form another agency, to set up some registrar that will be above all. Another way to form a parallel body within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we actually have amendments and additions to the Law on Hostage Law today. In Article 2 of the amendment and addition of the Law, we have exactly what I said, the stock register runs through the registrator, and it would have been nice, Minister Bubalo, if you'd told us that this has led to changes and additions to this law. In Article 57a, which is a new member, which is added under Article 2, you have written down what powers and obligations the registrar has. I'm asking you, who has done all of this so far, because all of this had to be the obligation of someone who, as you wrote in the basic law, was an authorized body, and when we, through the amendments, told you who should be an authorized body, of course you didn't accept suggestions, so now you have to change the law. So, who's been doing this so far and why these aren't the department's powers, what the ministry in this area is going to do, if they don't want these jobs provided for by this new member of 57a. In Article 5, which is a former member of the 60th basic law, you are talking about compensation, you are talking about entering and deleting data from stock registers, as well as other services provided by the Agency in accordance with the law of remuneration. The amount of compensation referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the Management Board of the Agency, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These are also the things that went through all these laws in this area that we had on the agenda during some previous period. Then we got that law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. In fact, someone unnamed and unidentified at this point is authorized to prescribe certain fees and fees. Then gather it on various sides and appear with changes and additions to this law, so that Serbian citizens do not notice how you introduce new charges, new fees, new costs to them in a small door. It's the only thing the government of the Republic of Serbia does successfully. In Article 6, you are talking about the data and contained in the stock register and you say – the stock register contains data on the stockholder and the debtor, when they are not the same persons, as well as information on the issuer or person referred to in Article 16(1) of this Act, data that determines the movable matter or the right which is the subject of the law, information which is closer to determining the claim provided by the law of the Member State with the indication of the basic and maximum amount, information on the existence of the dispute on the law and the data that the settlement procedure has been initiated. Well, if the subject of the hostage right is a domestic natural person, and if the subject is a domestic legal person, etc. That's what the need to exist already, that's what's already been done and there's no need to change this way. You're actually through this data contained in the stock register, although you said earlier that the registrar would prescribe the forms with the necessary documentation, now you've already written here so that the registrar has nothing to do. You're reaffirming our thesis that there's no need to introduce any new function in the context of regulation of this problem at all. In Article 7, you say that a stockholder, a hostage trustee and any other person may request that a note of the dispute be entered in the register if they have initiated a case relating to hostage and movable matters or other relations of the party in connection with the stock. Who's every other person, Minister, this has to be defined, it has to be about persons with a legal interest, not anyone who thinks they're taking notes in the stock register. In Article 9, you added a new member of 65a, i.e. five new members, and you say, the registrar checks, which is Article 65b, whether the signator is authorised to submit it; how the registrar will in practice check it, I am very interested; then you say whether the request contains all the required information, whether all the necessary documentation is submitted, whether the data are contained in the request identical with the data in the documentation, etc. It's a purely formal business that needs to be checked by some clerk who's doing these jobs. It was, again, our thesis and our position, that it was possible to work within your ministry, Minister, and that it was done by one of the officers you hired in this time since you became minister. He's responding to a pass. The ones you found that would bring 20% of your own. That's a good idea. What you predicted to be a member of 65v, g, d, which, Minister Bubalo, is regulated to you by the General Administrative Procedure Act. It was completely unnecessary for you to burden these amendments and additions to the law with these supposedly new members. It is again that your eyes are covered and it is not only because of the registrar and the agency changing the law, but you are now explaining when the body is acting by a solution, when in conclusion, to whom the appeal is filed. All that the Law on General Administrative Procedure has long been regulated neatly, beautifully and clearly. That's why there was no need for you to regulate this through this law. In Article 65d, that new one, you say, on issues relating to the procedure for enrolment in the register of stocks, which are not specifically regulated by this law, the provisions of the laws governing the general administrative procedure shall be applied accordingly. So, I told you, this is all pre-arranged by the general administrative procedure and there was no need to re-enter it into this law. The position of the SRS parliamentary group is that we will not vote for these amendments and additions, because these amendments and additions of the Law are not perfected by the Institute of Hostage Law and it has nothing to do with what you, Mr. Bubalo, have said that, I don't know, in the interests of all parties, and I don't know which, that this law is changing. It is only in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to free one part of the business, to form another parallel body, to form an agency, to choose a registrar. Something very interesting is here, it's about the date of July 1st. In article 10, you said, "The stock register begins on July 1st 2005". I don't know how physically it's possible to start working on July 1st, unless someone's already doing it, so you just need a congregation majority to do what you've done a long time ago... (Predrag Bubalo, from the place: the amendment goes.) No amendments, we're talking about the text of the law. So is it that someone is already doing this job, that you have already determined who will be the registrar, and all you need is the support of the congregation's majority to have a clear regulation in front of you. Of course, we won't vote for this law. We asked the amendments to delete all members of the law. It's our relationship to a law that doesn't need to be passed. The only way to draw attention to both fellow Members and Government Representatives is to say that each member is individually deleted, because only when each member is deleted does not have this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16673	The law has been in the process since 5 May and the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment, as well as the minister, so that it has become an integral part of the law. We'll continue at 15.05 hours. The 11th session of the Trade and Tourism Committee will take place on Monday (July 4th), starting at 11.00 p.m., in the fourth floor hall. At 15.05 pm, MP Sreto Peric will have his word. [[After breaks – 15,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, ) Let Veroljub Arsic prepare himself. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I direct my presentation to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Hostage Rights and Registration in the Register, I would like to say a few sentences concerning the work of the National Assembly according to the newest Rules of Procedure on Labour. Namely, this call for this session of the agenda was established by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We happen to have one or two laws on the agenda every day, like we have two or three governments. One of my colleagues said that we have four Prime Ministers, as many parties as they participate in this government, so is the Prime Minister. Indeed, to the MPs who want to justify their existence here, who want to work hard on all the draft laws on the agenda, this time it's a little difficult because we don't know the exact order of the legislative proposals that will be spoken of. But it is not a problem for Serbian Radical Party MPs. You have seen that in view of this bill, which is now on the agenda, the registered list of speakers has a Serbian Radical Party, while other parliamentary groups did not even have authorised representatives to speak about the law. We expect that one day someone, perhaps from this political party that has a number in its name, will come out to propose, if there are 80 points of the agenda, that a united debate be held on all points. This also points to the fact that, when the MP and head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, spoke of amendments and additions to the Labour Act, when he asked, after a member who said that for voluntary blood donors he was reduced from three days to one day, what kind of people are you, and one colleague, who is even a doctor by profession, said: rational people. I can't accept that it's very rational. It seems to me that when you were in a situation to take both life and Tomislav Nikolic or any of the other Serbian radicals asked you what kind of people you would say - so rational. But I'm sure it won't come to that. Very often from this parliamentary group, which has its name and number, is heard – the topic. These MPs, the honor of the exceptions they spoke here, some have never come out for the assembly speaker, I'm not sure they read all the legal proposals, and they always remind some MPs about the subject. The lives of Serbian citizens, the lives of all in Serbia, economic activities and flows, are the subject of all MPs. It's the theme of this high house. I'll tell you in the end what I think. Now let me go back and comment on this law. The authorised promoter on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is Minister of Economy, Mr. Bubalo. It's one of the few ministers who respects this high house and always finds himself here when the laws of his field are on the agenda. That's what Serbian radicals can praise him for. Minister Bubalo has now gathered a larger team of associates than it has been before. I would like, as a man who comes from Podrinj, that Minister Bubalo, with his associates, goes to Viskoza in Loznica, to the Great Majdan mine in Ljubovija, to Ravnaje in Mali Zvornik, to "September 26" in Krupnje. That should be the mission of the Minister of Economy and his associates. Mr. Prophetovich, I have not listed all the firms that have problems. Some people have problems. The Great Majdan Mine from Love can't start its business activity. The Ravenia is now a solid business. Why wouldn't something be done to make her an even bigger institution for the development of the Mali Zvornik municipality, where we come from, and that should be the task of the Ministry of Economy. This law on amendments and additions to the Law on Publishing Rights of Movement Things and Registration in the Court Register was expected to be on the agenda, but to be abolished by an agency that will register economic operators. In addition to the agency, which is tasked with registering business entities, it also performs a register of publishing rights, as well as keeping a register of movable matters. Let me tell you, it's going to have to be more and more often provided for the right to raise, i.e. to launch, economic activities. Therefore, Mr. Prophetovic, it would not be bad for the minister to visit that those companies that don't function at all, and those that have some solid results and those that are very successful, with a team of people from companies who are very bad or not doing their business at all, to simply learn about these companies. There's probably a chance of that. I'm going to try specifically certain members of the law to analyze. Article 3, which is related to Article 57 of the existing law, says it is changing and reads: "The Stock Register is run by the Agency through the Registerer". Very often, it will be thought to be through a registrator, in which certain acts or documents are postponed. This is too high to be regulated in this law, if this is already foreseen by the Agency of Business Registers. We don't think this should be doubled and added. "The registrar is appointed (so, the persons performing this register) for a period of four years, with the same person being re-named. "Why is it for this person, who, according to us, is an ordinary official, who could have been a worker of the Ministry of Economy, to have the mandate, or to have a term of office for four years. Is it because after certain elections they can be members, i.e. registries of the parties' faces, or the party whose minister is the head of the resolution ministry? This article also says when a registrar's employment ends. It's perfectly logical and normal, like all other employees. That shouldn't have been predicted here. After Article 57, a member of the 57a is added, which reads, "The registrar has authority and obligations" and continues not to read, so as not to bother you. What's that? It's something that needs to be foreseen by the Internal Organization and Systematization Regulation. If that's it, and you have the agency, then it's probably supposed to be there and I don't think this particular issue should be regulated by that law. Then, in Article 60, it is a Article 5 of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, it is said: "For the entry and erasure of data from stock registers, as well as for other services provided by the Agency in accordance with the law, compensation shall be paid. "The amount of compensation shall be determined by the Management Board. This reminds me a little of the recently adopted Tourism Act in this House, which says that persons, who are going to conduct the guide's tasks, must pass a professional exam and must pay, when passing that exam, a certain financial amount, except that the law does not provide for how many bills, in which bills. I think this law detail is unnecessary and the law should provide for another framework in which and how it should work. Article 8 of this Law states: "The documents on the basis of which the register of stocks has been entered are an integral part of the Register of Stocks until its translation into electronic form". Gentlemen People's MPs, Mr. Minister, you can translate all the legal regulations into electronic form until we end corruption, bribery, robbery, until we make proper privatisation, this country will not enter the European Union and will not be interesting to anyone. So all the legal proposals can get electronic form, but that's not what allows better lives and better standards for citizens. First of all, the Government, and the Ministry of Economy, as one of the most important ministries, should take a little more account of it. I don't know how much you're leading, I assume the team is consolidated, that you want that part of the job to pay proper attention. Obviously, that's what Serbian citizens see and know, it's not enough. Furthermore, in article 10 of this law, you say, "The stock register begins on July 1st 2005"; July 1st 2005 is tomorrow, gentlemen. You said a moment ago, when Mrs. Verica Radeta spoke about this, that she had an amendment to that law, and we're now talking about a principle debate on this law, when we talk about details, then we'll see which amendments they have and then we'll have one review that should stand up for this law. In the end, let me tell you that when I became a national MP from the list of SRS Professor Vojislav Seselj, I was proud and happy, as I suppose most of you from your lists. I expected to enter the highest legislative home in the Republic of Serbia, and that's true, and that's where you'll agree. But I didn't expect to turn this National Assembly into this. I suppose the President of the National Assembly will react, but it should also react when we come to such legislative proposals – not this one, we have already said – but as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, so that the President of the National Assembly, to preserve its reputation and integrity and all of us MPs, should not put it on the agenda. They'll tell me -- an extraordinary session, I'll accept that, but I didn't expect as a candidate for the MP from the SRS list, Professor Vojislav Seselj, to threaten to turn us into a government agency to pass legal acts. This could only take a certain time until the next election, and in the next elections, with the help of Serbian citizens, we will probably turn the political picture and political situation into Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16676	Replica. Here you go, Mr. Prophet. I thought it was a number, so there's no party with a number that's represented in parliament. It was DC, it's sixth Roman, but there's none left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16677	Mr. Peric, with most of your exposure, I will absolutely agree, but I will not agree with that part of the presentation where you spoke about the necessity and need of the minister to visit some economic operators. If the minister will come just to take a walk, then he doesn't have to come. In the end, the minister to help us in a situation where some of the business entities in the middle of Podrinj, you know he can't. With outdated technology, with huge debts both towards ino-partners and internal debt, with lost markets from the late 1970s and early '80s, the economy minister can hardly help us. Those people who can help us are investors, both domestic and foreign, are banks and I think we should be glad that a number of young people in these municipalities are working on certain projects, especially in the field of tourism, for which more investment funds abroad are interested. It's the right way to hire people, not constantly press the ministers to come to solve problems, try to solve problems by giving out certain funds from the budget, so the question is how it's going to be spent, which is an example of Viskoza. You know better than me, how much money has been given to that restructuring company since 1990, and that money has actually gone to pay. This is not a good example of how state money is spent and we have to look for what banks, which investment funds, which strategic partners, to find the market and hire people. On the other hand, you mentioned two examples, an example of the social enterprise "Ravnaja" and the Great Majdan mine in Ljubovija. We have an inherited condition here that only has to do with bureaucracy in this country. This can only be changed by changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because in the whole middle of Podrinj there are three raw materials, stone, water and wood. The owner of everything else about mineral raw materials, and these three things are the owners of Serbia. It was regulated by some previous laws, previous legal frameworks. Now Serbia is charging for the exploitation of state-owned enterprises, which are financed from the budget. We have one completely abnormal situation, and in order to solve this abnormal situation, we need to take it one step at a time. First, to change the Constitution, then the basic laws, so that we can regulate the work of public enterprises, so that these social enterprises can live a little, and that they can be privatised with regulated property relations. Now no one's gonna buy them. With the Great Majdan, it's similar. When large systems were created, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, it was joined by a large system called Trepca from Kosovo Mitrovica. We now have a problem in Kosovo Mitrovica, because we have three managements of Trepce. We have Albanian, we have Serbian, we have UNMIK. The only way to make the Great Majday work is to change it first, regulate these ownership relations, to be an independent legal entity, a legal person, and I think it can only be changed by the consent of all parties, so that in the legislation concerning the economy there would be no more such turbulence. The basic thing we all have to do together is change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16678	Thank you to both Members of the People for the consistent commitment to the password. Replica. MP Sreto Peric. You've been misread by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16679	I must agree most of what Mr. Prophetovic said, however, I did not talk about the Constitution, about the Serbians. A big Mayan may sound like a big firm to many of you. No, he's just called a big Mayan. He was part of the Trepce. It's a company that's had up to 300 employees up to these current problems. It's not a big system, it's not a public enterprise, but I don't think there have been any contacts and conversations with the Ministry of Economy, with the Ministry of Energy and Mining, and there's no need to wait for the Constitution, not to wait for the statutes or any other positive regulation to intervene. So I think that this explanation that Mr. Prophetovic made, about this, has misread me and I don't think he's in the right place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16680	Thank you both for the construction. National MP Veroljub Arsic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have now heard that the Constitution is also to blame for the state's economic situation. Whoever said that should imagine whether it was the Constitution or the coalition partners who ran Serbia's woods. How does this money from other public enterprises go to Serbia and how do these Serbians have that money and what do they spend it on? It's not the Constitution. That's what a lot of shouting is about, whenever something in the state is wrong, the Constitution is wrong, so we can't even rule it right. It would be different if it were your coalition partners, you're already paying that price, and it's fortunate that after the election there will be no more of these coalition partners of yours. They're here at two, two and a half percent, so they'll go back to history, where they belong. When it comes to this proposal to amend and supplement the law, it raises the question of what this will now be on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament and what the government has been doing so far. Mr. Minister, this is the fifth amendment to this law since this government exists. I must say that at least you listen to something from the SRS, study our amendments well, perhaps read the discussion of one of the SRS MPs, and here is a new proposal to amend and supplement the law. The question arises why the original legal solutions and those later, at least the first changes, were not enough. They weren't enough because all the laws you do seem to be doing in some way to show the public how this government works or how you want to listen to EU directives, and write something in a hurry, don't think about what you wrote. Put in the assembly procedure, the majority who, by this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, proved that the Parliament was the Government of Serbia's instrument, the majority passed the law, and then when the law entered into force, we see that the law is wrong, although the opposition was saying what was wrong in the law, although the SRS warned that you should do it, although you are doing it wrong, to at least correct it a little bit. And now here are the amendments and the additions of the law. Essentially here is only one, the agency, a new public enterprise, a public agency that the government of the Republic of Serbia will have and nothing more. All of these are stories of necessity, observed problems; here is a member of the 30th amending, of the basic law, I will read what is changed: "If one subject of the right to be entered in the Register of Stocks, it is posted to a few trustees, according to which their claims from the value of the case are charged, are determined at the time of their enrolment in the Register of Stocks. "It's erased. But let's see what's new that's being added to this law. It is said: "If the same object of the right to be held, by enrolment in the Register of Stocks, is committed to a higher number of creditors, the order of payment of their claims from the value of the case shall be determined according to the time (day, hour and minute) of receipt of the request for registration of the right of the Agency for Commercial Registers. "It's now some fundamental change. In Article 31, paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted. And what is deleted: "If the entry into the Register of Stocks precedes the surrender to the state, the law in question shall enjoy the championship. "That's attitude 2. Paragraph 3 states: "If the depositor first handed over the matter in the state of one trustee, and then requested the admission of the right to the register in favour of the second trustee, the trustee in whose state is the pawned matter enjoys the championship. "There is, therefore, Article 4, which states: "The right to surrender in the state enjoys the championship in relation to the later law entered in the Register of Stocks, if it is based on a pledge contract concluded in writing and certified in court or in another body authorised to authenticate signatures. "We mentioned that attitudes 2 and 3 are superfluous, and attitude 4 is quite enough, and then you could use that right and delete these two attitudes. But no, now we have a new debate about this law and this matter. Next, what's essential, what's right, it's an agency. The solution so far in Article 57 of this Law was: "The register of supplies is run by a competent organisation, determined in accordance with the law. "Now it is no longer a competent organisation, now it is an agency, and it is defined in the first position. Namely, the Register of Stocks runs the Agency through the Registerer. That's the whole point of this job you're doing. So you agree with some legal programs that are completely unnecessary. One question is why do we open so many agencies and do we even have in the state an institution that could be doing this job that the agencies are doing right now? And they're expensive. The agency must have a director, a board of directors, a supervisory board, professional services and, Mr. Minister, you are a member of the government, so ask that question to your colleagues in the government. What is the National Bank of Serbia doing? What does Mr. Governor of the National Bank of Serbia do with a salary of over 300,000 dinars? Is it his only job to buy fairies, to cut the grass, close the banks domestically and shut down insurance companies, is that his only job? Could the National Bank of Serbia, as one state body, run this business? Yes, because she could carry all the payment traffic, she could run all the jury accounts of legal and physical persons, overseeing business and legal and physical persons, so all the agencies doing together is a children's game according to what the National Bank could do. There is a certain infrastructure that you inherited, which you haven't needed since you transferred payment traffic to business banks, there is personnel infrastructure, people who did this job and who are experts. And what did you do with them? You threw them out, so you let them get along in the business banks as they arrive and know it, and you gave the business space of the National Bank of Serbia to the National Savings. Now you need agencies, now you need someone else to get a job, and then we came up with a way to fund the agency. So, how is the agency financed? In accordance with Article 60, registration costs shall be paid, in accordance with the law, to enter or modify the data in the Register, a search involving the receipt of a copy. So far, that is, under this law so far, without these changes and additions, and it was the only thing that could be charged for. And now it is said: "For the registration and removal of data from the Register of Stocks, as well as other services provided by the Agency in accordance with the law, compensation is paid. "So now it can literally be anything that comes to mind to be paid out of the agency's work, so now the question is whether citizens exist because of agencies or agencies because of citizens. Mr. Slavoljub Matic, who keeps throwing me while I'm behind this speaker, there was a coalition between the SRS in Požarevec, the SPS and the DSS. The coalition failed, because the DSS committee did not want to vote for the DSS Assembly president, and the DSS Assembly's candidate was Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16682	Please, this is not the kind of thing you want to answer. The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic. I'm sorry, Mr. Rankic agrees, come right in, Mr. Matić. I didn't see you looking for a replica. I'm sorry, both of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16683	As far as I know, I was elected President of the Assembly, Mr. Arsic. I don't know what you're talking about. However, individual committees did not want to vote for SRS candidates for the vice-presidential post and that is the point. But that's not the point, it's that you're in a coalition with Karic's party, your criticism is about the work of the Republic government and you're trying here with a destructive policy, which, when it comes to the laws, is about writing amendments to certain members of the law where it's listed itself -- is deleted. You want to delete all the laws and specifically, you show up at work when you are in power to work with Karic's party. That's what you do in Fireman, Mr. Arsic, and that's your whole story. The DSS in Pogorevc doesn't want to be in power with Karic's party, and you know why? Because Karic closed the fire economy, he closed the Pozarevačka Banka, made foreign exchanges during 1991 and 1992, and those processes stand, as Karic's party has support since one party, from the DS has support, it had support during 2001 and 2002, just the group, the company around Bogoljub Karic. Therefore, the example of how money is being taken out of the bank, how the bank is then destroyed, could not be found in the right place, and that is to make a final decision by the court and we have one big problem. You have an even bigger problem, Mr. Arsic, you have passed even your party's policies into a coalition with Karic's party and do not bring me into such a context.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16684	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, mentioning the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16685	I would ask you, Mr. Mother, not to interpret the policy of the SRS, because you can't interpret it. Who's in the coalition at the bar, if we open that story, I'd have to ask you who you're in the City of Coalition with? (Slavoljub Matic, from the place: We are not in power, I was talking about Pogorevec. I'd have to ask you who you're in Belgrade with in the coalition. Perhaps you are not in power here, so is there more evil than being with the DS in power, is there greater evil for Serbia? I'm a witness when you had to hand over the MP's ID because you were expelled from the assembly. Don't touch it, Mr. Matic, I'm looking at everything to calm Serbia down, difficult times are waiting for us. You're talking to who's in a bar in Pogorevec. Did you choose throughout the local self-government coalition by its definition, by party definition? I can't believe it. Then no one would ever be in power anywhere. You have made sense the Law of Local Self-Government, under which the committees must choose for themselves who will not interfere with the coalition and the party, cannot interfere. I don't know who we're supposed to go to the firehouse with. Can a coalition be made with you? Do we have enough power? I don't think so. If we have it first thing tomorrow, but don't mix Karic with his councilmen all over Serbia. Karic is evil, political evil, and needs to be completely politically destroyed. I'm up for us all to go destroying it. Send him control to finally determine, not to send Dinkic, who is in business with him, but to have someone finally determine how he robs the state. Don't come out here to chat about the Serbian Radical Party, there's no reason and I don't feel too much desire, I don't even have the motivation to mess with the Democratic Party of Serbia right now, for a number of reasons. Now the Democratic Party has threatened to tear us apart, so we're going into an open conflict, because if anyone wants to tear us apart, I have to defend myself and I have to go with these G17s, because they didn't threaten us, and they destroyed Serbia. These are currently my two political rivals in the Assembly. One to defend myself from tearing me apart, and the other to defend Serbia from tearing it apart. I don't see you anywhere here and don't spread the front, don't hit the Serbian Radical Party. Whoever came after us got in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16686	I ask all parliamentary groups, you have received a letter in the meantime, to make it known and to propose all parliamentary groups members for the Committee on Local Self-Government, which can also discuss these issues with local authorities. There's no need at all in the central session to talk about it. Replication to Mr Nikolic's presentation, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16687	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the remark is spoken for by the assembly speaker. You know very well that Mr Dinkic is not in any dealings with Bogoljub Karic. On the contrary, he charged him extra tax. On the other hand, we have a current arbitration in Zurich, we're waiting for conclusions, and then the state is going to establish its mechanisms and end the story with "Mobtel," so we know how it is. That's quite clear. As for G17 plus, so we're really responsible for running this country, and a few signals have arrived in the last 24 hours, which are very positive. The first and most significant is from the United States. You know well that Serbia and Switzerland in the 19th century won the status of the most privileged trading partner with America. Today, the president of the United States has again made such status possible for Serbia. Over 4,000 domestic products will have full free access to the US market. Five years after the five-October changes, the government managed to return Serbia to its rightful place. The US decision is a great recognition and support for a solid reform course conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Two more signals came in the last 24 hours. The macro-financial assistance of the European Union is the voice sent to us by Professor, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Miroljub Labus. Another vote, very positive, thanks to Mr Dinkic and Mr Jelasic, was granted a break in the payment of the debt to the Paris Club of Trustees. That means we'll be able to invest in investments without returning immediately. What's important is that it's an image and that's how parties of the ruling coalition work. It's an image and it's the way G17 plus Serbia leads to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16688	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16689	There's really been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I can't get over it. If you're doing something with a computer, you know there are hidden files. Since you brought out open files here, let's talk a little bit about hidden. There are two more messages. One of the Senate, one of Congress. What you've earned in the last 24 hours of this so-called. The prize, this status of a privileged trading partner with the United States? Are we underage or stupid so you can't tell us anything, and we'll find out within the next 15 days? If Congress and the Senate harshly condemns us, and 24 hours after that we get some kind of status that makes you experts and your MPs, teachers, representatives, what you call them, just tell me what happened in that 24 hours. What did you sell, hand it over? What's the deal? There's an American proverb, so I'd like you to remember it, sir, for all time -- free cheese is only in the mouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16690	I appreciate the idea that there are American proverbs. Thank you, that sounds great. I am obliged to inform that, as you all know, executive and legislative authorities work separately, and we all know, according to the US executive authority, what Serbia has earned - by consistent legal implementation and the provision of legal conditions, so through the work of this assembly, all the measures that the Serbian government has taken in the context of international obligations with the IMF and the World Bank and, finally, in the context of bilateral relations. That is why, of course, this is Serbia's joint success. Let's not share Serbia and also not stop Mr. Rankic from speaking to us about this law. Here you go, Mr. Rankic, and then MP Zoran Antic. I am also obliged to inform you that the committees could finish their work tomorrow, there will be no sessions on Friday, only committees will work, and the session will continue on Monday. Today will extend the work on that agenda point where we are at 1800 hours, the work will be extended until that point is completed, and then we will continue Monday at 10.00 hours. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16691	We've heard that the government is acting as a radio receiver, and it seems to be intensively picking up signals. However, I am convinced that nothing in Serbia would change. Without these changes, this area would be fully operational in the way it works, but one confirmation of my claim is also in Article 3 below, where most of these changes foresee the introduction of a registrar. This could, in effect, be done by the Agency for the Management of Business Registers to simply regulate its internal acts, the Statute of the Agency and to introduce a registrar on the basis of that Statute. There was no need for the Assembly to discuss today. However, what is what this ministry as a proposing has avoided, and what has been fiercely defended in previous drafts of the law, is in Article 3 relating to Article 57, where the registrar is scheduled to be appointed for a period of four years, with the same person cannot be re-appointed. We have had many discussions here, where it has been claimed that it takes five years to appoint individuals for reasons, as it has been explained to us here, in order to achieve these are extra-party personalities, individuals who have nothing to do with politics and to maintain continuity in the work of some organisations, agencies, or that there are other institutions and that this period of five years is necessary. I remember those from the government who were mentally defending those views, and you can see that the motionary, the Government, has a ministry that has been completely clear and said for four years. It was avoided because it's about a four-year regular cycle when it comes to elections, it didn't bother to be here for four years, and nobody's going to criticise this. At the end of this article, it is said that the registrator may be authorised before the expiry of the period for which he is appointed, and three reasons are given: at the request of the registrator, and which is perfectly logical; if the registrator does not perform its function in accordance with the law, it is also perfectly logical; in the end, for other reasons established by law. If these other reasons were established by this law, then they should have stood - and for other reasons established by this law. However, this law does not lay down other reasons for which it can be resolved, as well as some other laws. I don't know if that might not be foreseen by the Civil Service Act, but if it is, you couldn't put it here, in this law, because it's only on the agenda at the end of this session. So nothing would essentially change if this wasn't practically on the agenda today. The MPs are getting tired of this, the Agency for Business Registers really could have done this in its own act, practically with the statute to prescribe the existence of the registrator, etc. With Article 5, which refers to Article 60, I am also quite positively surprised, where it says that the amount of compensation provided for in Article 1 of this article is determined by the Agency's board of directors, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm convinced it's only because this proposal doesn't come from the Ministry of Finance. And if by any chance he came from the Ministry of Finance, it would be here that the amount of compensation from this position would be determined by the minister in charge of the affairs and so on. So I'm going to look back very briefly on the explanation. For reasons of law-making, you listed it as one of the reasons: the law is passed in order to enable interested persons to at the same time bet on moving things and keep them in state. I guess the whole point of the law is, this whole thing about the right to move things, that the holder pawns them, but to keep them in the state, because otherwise it would be alienation on any basis, whether it's exchange or sale, and the essence of the whole law is that, and I don't see why it would stand in terms of these additions and changes. One thing is particularly funny to me, I have to admit, and regarding this law, again in the reasons for the adoption, where it is said that with the keeping of a register of economic operators and a register of financial leases began on 31 December 2004. I really don't understand who's doing this on December 31st, before New Year's Eve. I believe they didn't register anyone that day, they might have made some kind of celebration to, well, in front of New Year's Eve, get the impression that something else is starting to work. If it were here on January 3rd or 4th, when the New Year's Eve is over, it would be quite clear. I don't understand what anyone would have written an explanation to say that the agency started on December 31st, 2004. Indeed, on the eve of New Year's Eve, I would like the promoter to come out and say if they registered anything that day, except for what they later made some convenient celebration before the New Year's Eve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16692	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised there's no more interest in this law and only the MPs of the SRS are interested in this law, because this law definitely introduces vegetables to Serbia, because it will rob, humiliate, degrade hundreds of thousands of people. After a very bad economic policy that is being implemented in previous years, we have come to a situation where one law regulates how citizens will lose everything, lose their moving assets, or bet on it and fully realize the concept of the fried country, which started in 2001. I would like for reasons to pass this law to read, how untrue and dishonest they are, one sentence: to increase the purchasing power of citizens and economic operators, and therefore to create conditions for the accelerated development of the economy. This law, eventually, can boost personal consumption and nothing more. They can possibly be citizens who have lost their jobs and no income to survive another month. I would remind you only that during the previous year, by monetary policy measures, we have obliged banks to increase mandatory reserves, and it seems to me from 30% to 40%, just to reduce personal consumption, because the government then claimed that we have a level of personal consumption too much, that there are no investments in the economy and that all assets go into consumption, the trade deficit increases. Citizens' checks with the same explanation have been lifted, and now you're dating a law that is completely contradictory, which simply leaves exactly what I just said, that the aim of this law is to bring a good part of the Serbian citizens who have been robbed, out of work, into debt slavery. Just as you have brought the country into debt, so you intend to bring the citizens of Serbia into misery and poverty, to humiliate and destroy dignity, pride, the confidence of the citizens of Serbia, and by the concept you started with, to create only an army of ordinary consumers, with their heads down, who worry about what they will tomorrow and how to survive another month. These are, unfortunately, the effects of this kind of economic policy. It's just the final phase of one concept that you started with, I say, by coming DOS to power. Perhaps, given that there is a minister present, I spoke a little early in the afternoon, speaking of the Labour Act, of problems in Soko Sturko, to ask the minister the question: does the minister intend to encourage privatisation and looting of small shareholders because the Action Fund has joined its actions. Mostly pensioners and employees of Soko Sturka, I'm sure during the summer we'll have a lot of such examples, are put in a position for the future to sell their actions and in some ways the state steals them. I think it's high time to stop with these unserious laws, turn to the citizens of Serbia, not to deceive them, to solve their problems, not to experience Serbia, maybe it's a bit of a strong term, like a milk cow, to fight in all ways to get out of the citizens' last dinar. Turn to production, new jobs, turn to something that can restore the hope of Serbian citizens. By laws like this, you only show them that they will live in even greater misery and poverty next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16694	I thank you, Mr Anticu. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. I'm finishing the initial search. Minister, about the next one or the last one? Here you go, Minister Bubalo, I've concluded, but it's not a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16695	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the discussion in principle regarding the proposed bill on amendments to the Law on Stocks. Just a few clarifications, so there's no doubt. So there are no new agencies. This law does not establish any new agency, no new registrars. The registrar was established by law and by the Commercial Registers Act. Why the ministry, and since it was a question, does not register the stock. According to government and ministry laws, the ministry is in this case doing control and supervisory work in the second degree. It is the Agency that makes the registration, including the stock registration. This job has so far not been registered with the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities, and the main thing is to require an extension of the already established stocks, as otherwise the priority law would be extinguished. The procedure and the bodies regulated by this amendment are almost identical to that of keeping the register of economic operators. Just unification is what was meant to be achieved. Again on the subject of why you don't do it in the ministry, I just want to give some information. Thirty thousand pledges only have the Administration of Revenue. I don't know if you think it's possible for someone in the ministry to do this and do all the supplies we want to pool in one place. It's just that the philosophy that is present in the world today, that everything is done in one place, that we have an electronic government and that all the necessary information about the economic operator can be obtained in one place. So, for the first time, a single register of all the rights at stake is established, regardless of whether it is a court stock, a legal stock or a contractual pledge. This is also in some way the answer to what Mr. Sreto Peric said, because we want all the necessary information on some economic operator to be found in one place. Article 57 of the basic law provides for harmonisation with the Law on Economic Entities and hence for a more detailed solution to the issues contained, the truth, in part, is also resolved in the Commercial Registers Act. Our registration system is being downloaded these days. Our experts, just from the Agency for Economic Registers and those who have been consultants for the drafting of this law that we have, just these days, have been in Bulgaria and Macedonia, which are largely taking over our solution, because the European Commission has estimated that the legal solution that we have in the area of registration of economic operators is one of the best solutions for this area in Europe. Mr. Veroljub Arsic mentioned that this was some kind of fifth shift. If he looks at only a little more careful reasoning and sees that there is only one official paper in which it is published, it will be very easy to find that this is the first amendment to the Law on Stocks and that since 2003 there has been no intervention on this law. He also noted that changes are now being made to the solutions offered by the Radical Party during an earlier period, when the law was passed. It was probably now the reason why the latest amendments are not explained by the Radical Party and are very simple to formulate: "is deleted". Article 30; it is pointed out here that there is a slight change of law, and it is actually a very important change, because it respects the order of previously established stocks. If we were to rely on a moment of enrolment, and the enrolment could be with a delayed fact or a year from now, then they would violate the right of those who have previously established the right to stock. Hence, the change is very important and is bound by the day of the reception, or the day of the surrender. In Article 31, if there was a proposal from the SRS to delete the two positions earlier, then I think it is a pleasure to realize that we have now accepted it, that these two attitudes are really unnecessary and that is why they are deleted. Of course, I would not comment on two last discussions, because they were referred to whether we needed a law on pledges, a basic law, not a bill on amendments to this law, so since it was someone's past time and had to ask whether we needed such a law and whether it was green law, it was supposed to be done in 2003, and not today when we were changing it, we were harmonizing with some other laws and when we were actually improving it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16696	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić, replica or according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16697	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was an authorised representative in the adoption of this law when Mr. Vlahovic performed on behalf of that government, and Professor Orlic, who was the lawmaker. On both the Finance Committee and here, we held a debate, and I submitted an amendment that was not accepted at the time, with an explanation that in practice it would be so and that the amendment couldn't be formally accepted. I tried, first of all, to make agricultural producers, owners of basic herds, flocks, herds, swarms, etc. they have the right to pledge this property and to exercise their rights on the basis of the stock, a team before the basic herd generally has reproductive capacity. The question was whether it was possible to regulate the insurance system precisely, since it was very important at that time. The amendment was not accepted, because the state allegedly could not guarantee it, because it is a matter in the insurance sphere, not in the sphere of what the state is responsible for. Now I want to ask you if there are examples that people have used this right based on basic herds, flocks, herds, etc. If it's not, it's not good. I couldn't stand the amendment, because I couldn't get attached to a specific member. I'm taking the opportunity, on behalf of a number of producers who asked me to ask here now, is it possible that they can do this right? If not possible, please study this problem and propose a new amendment and addition. I guarantee every MP in this assembly will vote for it. So the thing is completely clean, not ideological, not party. It's about peasants getting the right to pawn a cow, a horse, their flock, and on that basis get credit so they can solve another problem. I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16698	The word is Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16699	I think this intervention is fine, I just want to give an explanation. It's about this: when it comes to the country, because it's an immovable matter, we can't talk about it in the framework of the Law on Advocacy of Moving Things. The country's getting rid of itself through a mortgage. When it comes to the herd and everything else, it's provided for in the forms. In fact, in practice it will be possible to advocate, these are movable things, so there won't be any problems to regulate it through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16700	I'm concluding a principled search on this agenda point. We move to the 42nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Commercial Entities You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any member of the SPO, four SDP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Powered representatives for this agenda point in front of the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic is Aleksandar Vlahovic, and in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Rajko Baralic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the motionary's representative, Dr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Industry, want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16701	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. Law on the Registration of Business Entities, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No. 55 since 2004, it has been brought forward to simplify, speed up and formalise the process of setting up businesses and to create a unique, centralised and up-to-date electronic database on all economic operators in Serbia. Business Registers Agency Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No. 55 since 2004, the Agency for Business Registers has been established, responsible for managing the register of economic operators. The agency began its work on 1 January 2005 and by 15 June this year 68,000 applications were filed for the translation of business entities that have been registered in commercial courts in the Register of Business Entities. An up-to-date electronic database was created on all businesses operating in Serbia's territory, without Kosovo. After the law was passed, at the end of November 2004, the Business Society Act was passed. The law envisioned changes in the legal forms of the organisation of economic operators, the conditions under which economic operators organise and operate and gas. In this respect, there was a need for the harmonisation of the Law on the Registration of Business Entities with the subsequent Act on Business Companies. There was also a need to extend the deadline for the registration of entrepreneurs in the Agency’s Register. Article 90. The law on the registration of business entities was provided for by registration of entrepreneurs starting on 1 March 2005. However, in the negotiations on taking over existing documentation from the local self-government authority, whose services have done this job so far, it is taken the view that the registration procedure for entrepreneurs should be facilitated to the maximum extent possible and that it is necessary that, prior to taking over this job by the Agency, the registration procedure is maximum. This was agreed by the Entrepreneurs' Association. It is estimated that, in order to coordinate all activities to be undertaken in order to minimise the process of registration of entrepreneurs, the registration of entrepreneurs by the Agency should start on 31 December 2005. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the law will eliminate the contradictions of the said rules, so that full legal certainty will be created with regard to the registration of all economic operators, including entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16702	I thank Minister Dr. Bubal. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We have applications for the word SRS. First by word, in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Verica Radeta, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16703	Ladies and gentlemen, every time we have on the agenda some of the Government's proposals, we from the Serbian Radical Party warn the Government that, as a proposal, it should seriously approach its work and propose legal texts that are truly serious, comprehensive and applicable. Never, in some first debate on a law, does a proposing representative accept our suggestions and it turns out very quickly that the laws, which are passed in this House, in a comprehensive way do not cover certain matter, that they are inapplicable, mostly for some formal reasons, and then we are again in a position to discuss the amendments and additions of these government proposals. This law, which we are talking about today, is also, like other laws, therefore, in its basic text for certain reasons inapplicable. That's why we realize that today's proposal is, in fact, merely the government's insistence, that these changes and additions create conditions for that basic law to be applied. The Minister's air-conditioned that it is, of course it is. But it's still a grudge, Minister, why you don't think about it that way when the basic law is passed. There's no need and we shouldn't talk about the same law and the same matter again. In the explanation given to us by the minister, in fact, we have heard nothing new, except what is stated in this written part of the reasoning, which we have received as an integral part of the Government's proposal for this law. It says that the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, I don't know when and in which official messenger it was published, was adopted to simplify, speed up and formalise the process for the establishment of business entities and to create a unique, centralised and up-to-date electronic database on all economic operators in Serbia. Therefore, in order to implement that project, the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers was adopted, establishing the Agency for Economic Registers responsible for managing the register of economic operators, etc. It then states in the following statement that the Agency has begun its work following the adoption of those laws for the keeping of the register on 31 December 2004, as prescribed in Article 90. The laws on the registration of economic operators. Of course this isn't like this, that the situation in practice is different. We will also see when we speak individually of the proposed members of the law that it is in practice different. Here is an interesting part of the explanation, where it is said that there is a need to extend the deadline for the registration of entrepreneurs in the Agency's registry. So, first it was said that it had begun, and now the need for extension has emerged. It is said: "In the negotiations on taking over existing documentation from local self-government authorities, whose services have done this job so far, the topic of mutual co-operation has been launched in the further process of registration of entrepreneurs." I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in this "start topic", does this mean that there is some problem in communication between local self-government units and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? If there are any problems, might it have something to do with which party or party holds power at local level? Is there any difference in communication, is it the ruling coalition at the republican level or the parties not in power at the republican level? As, unfortunately, these problems in all spheres and how they exist in life and in the field. I have to notice that, as with this previous law that we have just completed a principle debate, a lot of the members who change here simply shouldn't have been the subject of these changes and additions, because it's some formal changes that essentially don't change anything. I don't see why it took 41 members here, when, in fact, maybe five members had to be changed to do this job. I really don't see any difference between the forms of organisation and the legal form of the entity in Article 1. These kind of formal things shouldn't be the subject of changing some or this particular law, it can be for some essential reasons, something that essentially changes the application of this law. However, here you added the liquidation procedure as something new. It wasn't really contained until now. Or in Article 2 - the register contains data on an economic operator, so you are, then, a member of the sixth basic law, which also states what it contains. You erased what was formerly in the basic law, and now in these changes, you haven't really changed anything, you've just used some other expressions, some formulations, a business name, and before that was the name, so there are no fundamental changes. That is why we have a Article 3 relating to Article 17, where you say that the applicant of the registration can register a business name or a shortened business name in a foreign language that is officially used in the EU. Here you have respected this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the MPs do not yet have, where the obligation is to appeal to a specific EU act. You'll be a good MP, Mr. Minister, since you've been following the Rules of Procedure properly. This is something that is obviously very important to you, and we Serbian radicals think it is much more important to create conditions for companies to successfully operate and what a colleague who tried to defend you from our colleague Peric, who did not attack you at all, but only said that it would be good to visit Loznica and Mačvanski district, and when fellow Prophetovic tried to defend you, he said that you should not go on the ground, but that our task was to bring investors, to bring investment funds, to find strategic partners, etc. When he spoke to me, I suppose he meant the government, even though he is not a member of the government, but it is the supreme task of the government and of you as Minister of Government. To do all of this, of course, then counterpart Peric was right that you need to see a little bit of what is going on in the country of Serbia as part of your ministry's portfolio. In Article 4, which applies to this basic Article 22, there are also no fundamental changes, the signator is becoming the applicant; you say - whether the data being entered into the registration application, you are now changing that "are entered"; you have simply been wasting time, as well as the MPs on these things that mean nothing to you. Again, we have the right to appeal, Article 27 and 28 of the basic law, Article 7 of the amendment and addition, is again something that is already contained in the Law on General Administrative Procedure, in the Law on Administrative Disputes, and, as I said earlier on, there is no need for us to prescribe in these laws what is prescribed in the system laws. It is simply excessive and burdens this basic text of the law. In Article 33 of the basic law, which is amended by Article 9 of the Amendments and Supplements Act, you are talking about a founding contract, i.e. a founding act. In point 3, it was written earlier with the registration application of the establishment of a company of friends, earlier it was a certified signature of a representative, and you have now written - if he is a partner. So, be careful, with the registration application for the establishment of a partner society, if a partner has transferred the right of business to a third party, a certified signature of that person. This is completely raving and not in harmony with the spirit of the Serbian language. While you have been correcting some formalities, you have also had to make sure that the laws that this parliament is making and which you are proposing as an authorised proposer must also be in the spirit of Serbia's legal system and in the spirit of the Serbian language. The most common laws we get from these so-called so-called laws. democratic governments, since 2000 until today, are neither in the spirit of the Serbian language nor in the spirit of the Serbian legal system. Article 77 of the basic law, which is regulated by Article 34 of the amendment and supplement, speaks about the fees to be determined under the register of data. Very interesting that the basic law was passed, it seems to me, Minister, in November of last year, and here today is the last day of June. In such a short time, you had the need for each store, and there are 17, 18, to increase the fee that needs to be paid. What was 450 dinars, today is 540, so what 1,700 today is 2,040. What was 2,880 today is 4,400. What was 5,040 today is 9,600. So the maltenes and up to 50 percent of these fees have been increased. Now my logical question is whether you as a member of the government know of some hidden inflation that will bring us joy this year, where it is obvious that you have aligned these fees with something that neither the MPs nor the citizens of Serbia know. This was the same case with the laws on administrative and court fees, so I told the resolution ministers at the time that fat Dinkic would be resented for taking down his and Jelasic's story that there was no talk of inflation in Serbia. Finally, these articles 85, 88 and 90, which are the 38th and 39th of this new, or amendment and addition of the Law. Article 85 said that trade courts were obliged to deliver their documentation to the Agency by 15 March 2005 at the latest, according to the dynamics established with the agency, etc. You have now extended this to December 31st, 2005. We Members of the People, at least as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, expect and seek, Minister, to explain to us why this was not done within the time period that you provided for when you proposed basic law, who was guilty and whether they would bear some responsibility. Whether it has something to do with the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, Mr. Kljajevic, or if there is something we do not know, which the Serbian public does not know, so I would like you to explain. It was also envisaged that the competent authorities of local self-government who keep registers of private entrepreneurs are required by 15 March of this year to provide their records to registered entrepreneurs. In these changes and additions, Minister, it is scheduled to be June 15th, 2006. Why do you extend this deadline so much, what is the essence of the problem, and whether this law again means nothing, or whether it's just a dead letter on paper, if these basic things are not respected and can't be respected. In Article 88, paragraph 2 reads: "The provisions of the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, so now I do not read which official messenger, which relate to the registration of entrepreneurs in the relevant register, ceases to apply" was on 1 March 2005, and now stands on 31 December 2005. You should also explain this to us, which is why the deadline is extended, as well as this last Article 90, which says "this law enters into force on 31 December 2004, except for provisions relating to the registration of entrepreneurs who enter into force" in the basic law, it wrote on 1 March 2005, and now stands on 31 December 2005. I expect, Minister Bubalo, that you will explain to us and tell us loud and clear why you were unable to apply the law that you proposed to this House and which the assembly majority adopted in November last year. So it is obvious that the reasons are not only those that are contained in these changes and additions. What you could have done and what could have been done, we see that we are already very late and we are asking you to tell us who, who is responsible, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done about who is responsible for doing this job, and only afterwards can we seriously discuss this proposal, because you were obliged to explain this to us when you explained the Government's bill of law, and not just to read to us what your services wrote in the light of this law. The SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this law either. I have already said several reasons why we will not vote in favour of this law, and I ask you, Ministers, to answer these specific questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16704	The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let the MP Zoran Antic be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when I was about 20 or 25 years ago to participate in a public debate on amendments and amendments to the law, the existing law, then I thought that gentlemen at that time were old, older people, that they needed to make their pay, so often they reached out to write some amendment and supplementing an existing law that was essentially not to be changed. Today, I don't know if that might be the reason, because of young people, maybe under-experienced people, when they write the basic text of the law, so notice the mistake, then there should be a repair of that law. I understand why we've been writing new draft laws since October 5th, so we're making a new state, we're harmonising this law with the European Union. But these are frequent changes, and that doesn't apply to this law, I'm speaking generally for all the changes we've had so far. So it's not a criticism to you, Mr. Minister, and I'm not going to criticise this proposal of yours that you're making today. I would take advantage of the opportunity, Mr. Minister, given that I have some information that you in the Government two or three weeks ago have dealt with a more serious problem of RTB Bor and I would like to take advantage of your opportunity when you come out here to tell us in the shortest and in a few sentences what a new concept is, I mean that advice or committee where you are headed by Mr. Naumov, where you, like other ministers, are a member of that body, where certain questions are addressed, specific duties, dynamics are determined. Rejoice the miners, be glad if you have what you have and those on the National Employment Service records, if there is a chance of employment and a few sentences at the shortest, it will be useful to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16706	The People's Messenger Zoran Antic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. Zoran Antic is not there, Branislav Rankic is not there, the word is by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can't help but think of the impression I got and that euphoria when the basic bill was in this debate. Euphoria was from the ruling majority MPs, as the proposed solution was much better than any previous one, as there were many abuses in the work of trade courts, local self-government authorities which issued solutions, or registered economic operators. Apparently, a person who wanted to establish a legal entity, or private enterprise, or someone else, had to wait a few months for the trade court to give him that solution, so you even claimed that it lasted even a few years. One similar story was that when it came to the registration of entrepreneurs issued by the local self-government authority, it was again an abuse, that a commission was sought, that the registrations were not complete, that they were not in compliance with the legal rules. Now here we have on the agenda amendments and additions to the law that was voted in this assembly a few months ago, which is only a little over a month ago. It's so applied and it's already stuck. Mr. Minister, I believe that due to the application of the deadline when you started to enroll old business entities in that register, there was a problem, i.e. asphyxiation in the implementation of this law, and that is why the amendments and additions are here. One good part of the changes and additions are less or more cosmetics, so the language preparation of some expressions and concepts that were not in the original legal solution or simply miswritten names of individual forms, which should have been entered into that register, or the application when it was filled out. The fact is that legal persons had to finish the job by May 31st and they had to complete entrepreneurs as well, but as far as I know, the Business for Entrepreneurs has not even started. Mr. Minister, it would be your turn to go out for this pay phone and say the reasons that led to the Agency's failure to enforce the law. You are responsible for the work of this agency, because you are a second-degree resolution authority issued by this agency, so I am interested in who is responsible for the law that this assembly majority votes for, the law for which you were directly in charge of implementing and why this law has not been implemented. Why now, for example, legal persons can also be deleted from the register by the provisions of this law, and entrepreneurs under the same provisions of this same law will not be deleted. Who extended that deadline to the entrepreneurs? There is a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if there is a regulation, then the question is why we exist, why this has not been in the process before. Since the agency began its work, it was evident that it could not comply with the law. So, then you should have suggested to the Assembly maybe only one member since the law began, nothing more. We waited five months to see that the law couldn't be implemented, someone broke it, someone had to answer for it, because the law was broken, and now, Mr. Minister, step out for this pay phone and tell us who was responsible for the non-compliance under one law that was supposed to arrange the whole matter. And yet it is a serious issue, but it is the economic operators that fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia in one way or another, whether through value added taxes, whether through income taxes, whether through contributions to the PIO. So one whole system has now been found in a legal void. Based on what solutions are entrepreneurs working now? On the basis of the old but not in accordance with the applicable law, which means that literally every market inspector can now prohibit the operation of that economic operator. It can, unless the minister, as a second-degree body, cancels that solution. He can't. He can just wipe it out? Okay, so until he gets a valid solution, he can't delete it, but he didn't follow the provisions of this law. I'm not scaring the people, Mr. Minister, but I'm talking about the consequences they can be if this law is implemented. The problem is, the law doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16708	The People's Messenger Ivan Radić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Miljko Četrović, and Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there is no doubt that it was necessary in Serbia to create a unique, centralized and up-to-date electronic database on all economic operators in Serbia, because it was clear that the authorities who were in charge of the business, hence the commercial court for companies, or local self-government for private activities, had done the job quite sloppyly and rather messyly. The records were unscheduled, incomplete, so there are no objections from that point of view, but I believe that for one such important law, the government decided quite quickly, that it had run pretty quickly over this problem and that the consequences of all of this was what Mr. Arsic was talking about, so that we have one void, one vacuum, the space in which we should now be able to manage. A new body has been created, which is the Agency for Business Registers, which is established by a special law, which has the authority to run a register of economic operators, a register of rights to movable matters and rights, a register of financial leases and other registers in accordance with the law. I'm not gonna waste my word on agencies. So the position of the SRS is known about it. We're basically against forming an agency as a parallel organ and a panda to the competent ministries. The first illogicality to occur, seen in the light of this bill's proposal, is that it is said to have started work immediately after the law came into force, i.e. since 31 December 2004 it has started keeping a register. But in the next paragraph, you say that there is a need to extend that deadline, given that in the meantime, the company law has entered into force, so it is obvious that there has been a discrepancy of a legal vacuum, or legal void, which is all due to one of the perverse ways of passing laws in this assembly. We have on several occasions had a situation to pass laws whose members comply with the laws that will be passed. So it's an absolute legal illogicality. The law cannot be passed under some law that will be passed, but must be brought into line first with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then with laws currently in force. This is also the situation with this Business Registers Act, which is now in line with the Business Society Act, which was subsequently adopted. Also, this bill is full of flat-rates, as can be seen from the reasoning of the bill. There is a lot of uncertainty for the proponents of this legislative proposal and a lot of unnecessary attitudes, which was spoken of by the People's MP Verica Radeta. It is obvious that this amendment and the addition of the law could have been addressed in a far smaller number of members, that only essential things had to be changed. A lot of formal things have been decided here, which has somewhat increased the scope of this law. Not to mention, I'm going to give an example of one of those flat-rates, where it is said that with the registration of entrepreneurs, the Agency will start on 31 December 2005, because you say it is realistic to expect that the Agency will receive a permanent software solution for the register of economic operators in November. So this is one final flat-rate. What does it mean to be realistic to expect? It is realistic to expect our basketball players to win a gold medal at the European Championship in Belgrade, but it does not give us the right to draw their names on gold medals, because what if these realistic expectations do not come true. Furthermore, when it comes to the explanation of the part of the regulation's impact analysis, there is a lot of uncertainty for the proponents, which says this law should not have negative economic effects, but rather, if the effects are, that they should be positive. It is also quite a flat-rate assessment, but what is particularly worrying and where official statistics and this law do not exactly match, it is an increase in the fees that entities should pay when applying. This applies to Article 77 of the basic text, where these fees have been increased by 20% and you explain that this increase in fees is not actually an increase, but a alignment with inflation since May 2004 to today – I think official statistics say inflation is not 20%, so I would ask you to agree on it in the future, and another flat-rate assessment -- as well as the assumed inflation by the end of 2005. Another SRS amendment applies to Article 17 of the basic law, which regulates that registration is filed in the language and letter which are officially used in the Republic of Serbia. You have provided by Article 2 that the applicant of the registration application may register a business name or a shortened business name in a foreign language which is officially used in the European Union. We think this attitude is completely unnecessary for two reasons. First, it is somewhat a degradation of the Serbian language, and on the other hand, the provision has been discriminated against by other large world languages, such as Russian or Chinese. Why is it limited here to the languages of the European Union? What was characteristic of a number of previous laws is that a large number of ministry competences are transferred to the power of the minister himself. The case is also with this law, where in article 27 of the basic text of the ministry's affairs you have now transferred to the Minister for Business Affairs, so he is now the one to whom complaints are filed. It is he who makes decisions in complaints, is obliged to decide on a complaint, can make a solution that will replace the solution that has been killed or reject the appeal as unfounded. The position of the SRS, the general position, is that one man should not be given those powers, what will the ministry do if he is behind it all. This is a general remark and applies to all ministries, because it's not just the case with the Ministry of Economy. In the end, I'd like to point out two more things, so I can return to the pay raise in a moment. So it's 20% and the fee is now 540 dinars to 5,100. The only opinion is that this fee is too high for the current economic moment in Serbia. At the very end, another objection, which refers to the time limit given to the authorities that previously registered the agency in the register, therefore, to trade courts which are required to deliver their documentation to the agency by 31 December 2005 on economic operators and local self-government bodies by 15 July 2006. We believe that this deadline is too high and that in this respect the uncertainty of the proponents that this process will go, and it is not precise what if one of these authorities that previously registers does not fulfil those obligations under this law. At the very end, let me repeat what my predecessors have already said. So the SRS won't support the bill. We think this matter should be arranged a little differently. In addition, there are far more important topics in Serbia that were to be found in front of this assembly than is the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. The economic situation in the country is very bad, the social situation of citizens is getting worse from day to day. That's what this government should deal with first of all, not waving a feasibility study or some benefits from the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16710	I thank you, Mr. Radic. The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16711	Dear People's MPs, as you had a number of previous amendments and additions to the law, this is an amendment to the law, and the basic law was passed several months ago. This proves the seriousness and responsibility of the promoter, complete and entire government, when it proposes resolving certain issues and certain spheres of life in the state of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Registration of Business Entities was adopted just before the Business Society Act was adopted. When the Business Society Act was passed, there was one euphoria here from the majority who supports the government, which is voting for this law, that this law, with all the following laws, will bring one order in registration and business of companies, and from that and in this room that business activities will start and that citizens, or workers of Serbia and entrepreneurs will work far better, make a far better living. Unfortunately, it's been a few months and nothing has changed better, but worse, but that's why we've been given the agenda to discuss amendments to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities at this point. We are also witnessing that registration of companies is not carried out within the time limits prescribed by law. Here we heard, when the law was passed as a basic law, about the impeccability and inability of trade courts to maintain the registration of business entities, or companies, and in practice that it is a smart Europe, which has imposed everything on us through the previous and this government, that a special agency should be established, with special officials who will work and this part of the job. But this second part of the job was not done, as I said, neither this one nor the other one about the company registration seems to have even begun. It passed this deadline on March 15th and then the Ministry of Economy and the Serbian government remembered that something had to be done after the deadline had passed, suggested amending and supplementing the 41-member law. In addition to these changes and additions, it is clear that this job has not been started, nor has it been completed, and there are still many members whose changes and additions are to be made. The aim of each law, the aim of every legal norm, is to make it clear, precise and understandable, especially for those to whom it applies. So, in this case, when it comes to this law, for companies, for those who do business or run companies, and this other part for entrepreneurs. Here, in an explanation, which is written with the Bill's amendment and addition, as well as verbally what we have heard here from the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, that neither the local self-government that is from now on, and will now run this business on a proposal to amend and supplement this law, until 31 December 2005 instead of 1 March 2005. How the local self-government could and should not leave this job to the competent agency without the Ministry of Business and Privatisation taking appropriate measures. Whether any local self-government is stronger than the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister. Looks like they're stronger, and it looks like they're stronger, they're stronger, they're called associations. I mentioned on the previous agenda of the association of industrialists, Serbian hosts, and they appear to be stronger than the government, and than the ministry. I cannot accept it, that the associations of entrepreneurs are stronger than the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the government represents, as the executive body of the state of Serbia, the state of Serbia, and the state of Serbia, the Serbian people. Looking at everything here that was previously said, amendments and additions to the law were a basic goal of extending only deadlines, and in that association, many members of the amendments and additions of the law were in some way combined. Since the Minister and President of the National Assembly are here, I will use the Minister for Economy and Privatisation to ask two parliamentary questions. Since the minister is unable to often be on the Privatisation Committee, I don't know, he will say whether or not he will, from 1,400, 1,500, I don't know the exact number of privatised enterprises, in many cases the implementation and respect of the contract concluded between the buyer, i.e. the majority owner and the agency. The main reason is to disrespect the provisions of the contract and these basic provisions of the contract by the majority owner. The Agency has taken some steps, but these steps seem to be not in line with the objective of respecting the strictly relevant provisions of the contract, and that within the time limits given under the contract, appropriate legal measures are taken to bring an action for the termination of the contract, and that these proceedings are managed accordingly, and that the contract is terminated as soon as possible and the property of that economic operator that is thus privatised is protected. Also, protect, primarily, the interest of workers, because they are most endangered in disrespecting contracts from these customers. I ask the following question, that the minister says, does not have to today, but it will be necessary, in writing -- how many lawsuits have been filed for termination of the contract before the Privatisation Agency, for which economic operators, when the lawsuits have been filed and at what stage are court proceedings? It is very important to see if this privatisation is successful, as it has given good to all those workers of privatised enterprises. The second question: since the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems earlier, has been tasked with the restructuring and training of large social enterprises, whether it is 63 or 67 large enterprises in Serbia, whether the programme is still valid and whether all the large enterprises are directly under the government's patronage, i.e. in the process of restructuring and trying to train them for work, and in preparation for privatisation? Since there are 63 or 67 companies, it wouldn't be bad for all these companies to be listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16712	I ask the minister are you in a position to answer parliamentary questions immediately? If not, it will be formulated on the basis of a stenogram and it will be mandatory to give it on the day of the debate in particular under this law. What do you choose from those two? Don't be a part of it. In the day when there is a debate in particular, not a partial, but a complete answer to both questions. They'll be sent on the day after tomorrow, based on a stenogram. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16713	Dear People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Registration of Business Entities is an attempt by the proposing to correct that law in this form is inapplicable. Therefore, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities was adopted to simplify and speed up the procedure for the establishment of business entities. What happened? On the contrary. Since the Agency for Business Registers did not have enough trained and professional workers for this job, because the business of registration of entrepreneurs carried out local self-government, the law was not enforceable, which we in the SRS seriously warned about. You are delaying the registration process of business entities, i.e. entrepreneurs, until 31.12.2005, although it was due to begin on 1 March 2005. Registration applicants don't know who to turn to, since this law of yours couldn't be applied because their shop wasn't registered, even though it was past registration deadline. Dear People's MPs, it is not true that this is about harmonising with inflation, but it is about a classic increase in the limit and compensation needed to enroll in the business register. Article 10 of the Proposer repeals the founding contract, which is unacceptable because the contract is the same as the founding act. It is obvious that you are passing laws that are inadmissible, which you must correct multiple times to apply them, but we lawyers know it well, as Valtazar Bogisic said: "The more the coat of arms, the more time does not correct." You won't fix anything with this law, and it won't be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16714	Thank you very much, thank you very much for the quote by Bogisic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, thank you. Before I conclude the original search, I ask if the minister wants a final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16715	So in this address, I'm going to be a little bit shorter than in the previous one, because even the objections were not at the level of the previous law. It's said here, especially at the last debater, about the poor quality of the law. I had the right satisfaction that our experts and those working on this legislative project would be invited as consultants in other neighbouring countries, which have not yet resolved this issue. So I really think it's about one quality law. I agree that here they have, let me say, basically two groups of questions. A large number of members are the product of the need to comply with the Business Entity Act. If it were luck, it would have been normal to first pass a law on economic operators, which, in the legal and business world, is considered a business constitution, and then to pass a law on companies. This would be a normal path and we wouldn't have this number of amendments to the law, which are exclusively the harmonisation between the two legal texts, i.e. the adaptation of the Law on economic operators to the Business Society Act. However, if we compare this with the rationality needed, then we see that it was very clever, regardless of the order that we did not respect, which was first passed by the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. If that hadn't been done, then we would have had a situation to pass the company law, and during 2005, we would have discussed and discussed the company registration law and had a quality register for economic operators, which already exists today, with a year of delay. We really lost a lot of time so we could afford such a luxury. So it's easier, better and more rational that we've come to a situation where we're harmonising the Law on the Registration of Business Entities with the Business Society Act, although I wish it were the other way around. The second part of the change refers to the shift of this deadline. The deadline foreseen by the March 15th law was unsustainable for several reasons. There's been talk of irresponsibility here, but I want to take the lead. First, the amendments to the law were proposed and prepared as early as February. Why today and so many months later, it was because there was enough obstruction in the congregation, which was slow work, etc. I don't think I have the right to enter that part of the story as a minister. The second part of the story is about what's always painful in this country, and that's the means. If we had in time at the Agency for the Registration of Business Entrepreneurs, as planned, we could do in time software, hardware and other things. We simply gave priority to companies, businesses, and we have one satisfaction that 68,000 companies have been reported from the re-registration database so far. One huge job has been done or will be done in the next period. Also, I want to point out why some narrow throats and syringes are made. It's a feature of our people and our people. In the last 10 days before the deadline, of the 68,000 items, we received 40,000. The whole period from a few months to May 31st, it was less until then, etc. What is positive and what makes this law is that from 1 January to 15 June it is registered and registered in the register of 4,800 new companies. So far, the record has been on an annual level of 7,000. That's until June 15th. If we take in a correlation with a smaller base needed to establish a company, then it is a clear signal that there is a significant amount of activity in the establishment of companies. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, no one's rights are denied. Entrepreneurs, in agreement with local self-governments and administrations, continue to do the job. Simply, due to the Agency's capacity, there was a need, as I said from all this forward, to move that deadline to December 31st, that the Agency, which is now unique to both business entities, i.e. entrepreneurs, licking, manual stock, be stalking and indeed be one real database. So, there are no problems of communication of political nature with local administration and self-government, there are technical natures. Meanwhile, those in charge of registering entrepreneurs, they are doing their job and no one has been denied the opportunity to launch an initiative or to do anything. Euphoria due to the passing of this law, which it ruled, when euphoria predominates, and then it is not confirmed, it is not good. In this case, I am pleased to find that the euphoria, which ruled at the time of the law, was covered. The coverage is these 68,000 re-registration items, 4,800 new start-ups, etc. That's why I'm saying there was a place in that euphoria. Otherwise, the law has been applied since the first day as provided for, applicable from 1 January. All this data refers to the period from January 1st to June 15th, but is not applied in one segment, out of four, to entrepreneurs. Thank God, and it'll be very soon. There's been a lot of discussion about compensation. The fees haven't been increased, they haven't been changed. If you read carefully, the compensation is determined by the Government, and the law lays down only the above limits to which the Government can make a decision. Otherwise, at this point, no compensation has been changed, so there is no confusion. The parliamentary questions, asked by Mr. Cetrovic, are pleased to prepare. I don't have the exact information in my head about every firm, but they're right, I could give them in general what's been done, just because I'm unhappy with those legal solutions. But you were, we were discussing what was changed in the Privatization Act. (The Faith of Radeta, from the city: "And the deadlines"? What deadlines are you interested in? I've said everything. As far as Bora is concerned, it was adopted on the government action plan. It's Bor, Majdanpek, RTB, we usually say "Bor" for short, but that's one whole. A few months ago, we had an unspeakable situation about Bora's perspective, in terms of a study that appeared at the World Bank, where some experts suggested that it be shut down. I was personally against that attitude. I think most of our public knows that already. It was simply incomprehensible and unacceptable to me that at the moment when we have a few letters of intent, we make a decision to stop. After all, Bor and Majdanpek are our natural copper sites. We have refineries to modernize, to process our ore in our country and export it in the form of products. Because if we didn't do that, then how do we explain that some other natural resources, like oil, are being dragged into our country, we process in our refineries and we sell here or we export. Since copper is a completely export-oriented product, I think those strongholds were to be respected. Finally, an action plan was adopted, which accepted the basic idea of putting Bor in a position to tell the market whether Bor is interesting or not, not that someone is sitting in a cabinet, that it counts on how much production is possible per employee, etc. Of course, the action plan envisions further rationalisation of the number of employees, predicts an urgent selection of the privatisation advisor, predicts the separation of non-correspondence from basic activity and emergency privatisation, predicts that, and if this is how we figured out, a tender for Bor appears in December. If we do both these previous things and we privatize the parts that are non-correl activities, which are not basic activities, rationalises the number of employees, I'm sure with today's copper price we have a very solid perspective. We can't boast, they're not rich reserves, but we have quite a solid perspective for the Mining-Toping Based Bor. Especially since we have one parallel study - Block Awning System about the possibility of underground exploitation, with quite a solid supply. About big companies, just to say about restructuring, the public could see for sure, Mr. Loznica was talking, it's quite justified for me, that everyone cares about their end, it's in good interest. Of course, the easiest thing to worry about is someone else's back. It's the easiest thing to tell. I'm a man who's devoted himself to these enterprises as much as possible in this ministry. I don't do a lot of stock exchanges, the Securities Commission, because they're an independent regulatory body, so I don't have a right, I don't do a number of other things. But if there's anything I do, I do those big businesses. Everyone knows my attitudes. We already have quite a solid success. In the end, I'm going to finish what some results look like. Today was an auction in Belgrade, there were 17 companies, 10 auctions were sold and seven were not sold. These ten companies were sold for a billion dinars and two among those ten were those on the list of subsidies. So we're slowly removing the number of those who are on subsidies, that's a solution for them. Ten versus 17 is an extremely good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16716	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to the 43rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of Public Information Law At the beginning I draw your attention, this is the last point for a principle search in this agenda. That's why the decision was made at 3:30 p.m. that we'd be working until the end of today. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any member of the SPO, four SDP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorities for this point are representatives in front of DS Milan Stanimirovic, in front of G17 plus Aleksandar Lazarevic, in front of the SPS Rajko Baralic, MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. Does the representative of Proposer Dragan Koadinovic, the culture minister, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cacadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16717	Mr. President, MPs, I don't think we have a difficult task today. You know that the existing law stipulates that by 21 April, media from local self-government who have social capital are privatized. That deadline has passed and we, as Ministry, have submitted the amendment and addition of this law to extend the deadline by one year. We think it's some real measure right now. If you were to ask now how many of these media that should be privatised, hardly we could tell you, precisely because the Public Information Act abolished the obligation to register public messages, so that we also proposed the introduction of a special record on public ballots. In general, to have basic data and about who owns the media, when they started working, with how much power, if it's electronic media, radio, etc. I see that the most objections were related to that provision, that is, to that proposal. It's something we think would be useful to accept, because very often from the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for the media, we are looking for basic data that we are not now in a position to provide. In principle, I can say -- it can and should, in our opinion, be so, but if there are more people who think it might be a relapse of past times, or that it reminds us, maybe it doesn't, maybe some other legal entities and state bodies can count on it. I think in one place at the Ministry of Culture it would be good if there was a record. I say the big question is how interested they will be in privatising local self-government, or the media of local self-government, so the objective reasons were in the first place. For objective reasons, many media and local self - government have not entered into this thinking and consideration of this problem called privatisation. Either way, they have a deadline or they'll have, if you accept it, another year to get interested in applying, and they'll have to prepare. If these amendments and amendments to the law are not accepted, or the deadline to extend by one year, this would mean that, tomorrow or these days, many media and local self-government should put the key in the lock, i.e. to shut down. I don't think that's the intention of any of you and that would be harmful to the general media image in our country, because thanks to the wealth of the media we can say that we are on the right path to democratisation of society, not just in this area, but in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16718	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic. Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16719	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it had to come this far, then, of course, we will vote to extend this deadline. We were not in favour of necessarily privatising the media in Serbia in this way, and those media that were founded by budget funds, above all, local communities, the city of Belgrade, the AP and the state of Serbia, for several reasons. Two things can happen: that some of the media, who really have a significant reputation in Serbia, buy people who have big money and bad intentions, while other media who have no such readability, no such ratings, no such human resources, no such technical equipment wants to buy anyone. It's a risk arising from this condition that we're in right now. Employees in these media can have certain inconveniences and I want to say that there are environments, that there are media in Serbia like the Chacan media. That's where I'm from. Some of them, like the Chacan Voice, have lasted almost 80 years, Radio Cachak more than 50, so they were founded by the means of citizens. I mean, at the risk that some of my friends don't get me right, they work mostly top-notch professionals there and it's not good to have a boss who can do this in a way that's important to politics and everything that comes out of ownership, even though the Information Act has some other guarantees that ensure that it can't be all that way. Citizens who want to be informed about communal problems, about cultural events, about all those issues that are important for the functioning of a local self-government may be denied or not have adequate information, not timely, not valid, because someone has, above all, the need to recover the funds invested and, in one way, which is not always the most common, manages the media, as is managed by a brick or an agricultural cooperative. It's not the same. You'll understand. We realize it's not the same and it's my fear. If this deadline could be even more elastic, I'd make a personal statement for him, because I know what might happen. Of course, there are a few other laws here that are very important and very tied up. There will be now, hopefully, a law on public advertising that will limit some of the possible ugly efforts of new owners. There are other laws that will regulate it in this area. We have an independent regulatory body established here in this area at the Radiodifuge Agency - Council. So this telecommunications agency needs more, I can't keep track of everything. There's a lot to regulate. It's important here that we know that it's going to be very expensive and very demanding for that electronic media that's fighting for frequency, local or regional, about these media, and that those media that can't fight for it, for reasons that we understand, won't even have a real honest customer. So it is possible for Serbian citizens to experience some negative consequences when it comes to information in the coming period, but something good will happen. There is now a great crowd, first of all there are many unregulated issues in this area, there are some environments that completely uncritically edit their programs in the media that I'm talking about, and it's possible that if the new owner shows up, if there's privatisation in this way, something will make things better. But my conviction and my belief is that a few bad things are still going to happen until things get where they need to be found. Of course, the written media, as far as I'm concerned, is even more important, because the written word is something that remains. I'll go back to my Chachan voice again. The Chacans know my position. If I didn't take the Chachan voice on Fridays, I'd feel less like a Chachani, no matter who's running power, who's doing it, who's writing, what are my grudges? He arrived at Vinkovce when I was in the army, and I have a relationship with it, and that kind of attitude towards that newspaper is almost all Chacans. So we don't care who owns it, and it doesn't matter how he does it. The Cacanic Voice was founded by prominent communist Djordje Milovanovic nearly 70 and a few years ago. He was changing his concepts, there were whole ages, I dare say, that have changed, but still he endured, his logo today is worth a lot more than his entire assets. So, the Chacans know what I'm talking about here, I'm very sentimental, and it's going to be very hard for all of us if it happens that way, but we don't have much space here. This is only a good coordination of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Ministry of Culture to enable media that have not made preparations for privatisation in accordance with the current law, therefore, to privatise. We're going to vote for this, and we're going to keep checking in the only possible way, that's to keep track of what's going on and how things are going to develop the moment this deadline that we set here today is, that is, on the day of the vote. I'm not a big optimist, I wish I was wrong, but obviously, it's a concept issue. We are not very happy about this concept, but we will participate to the extent that this can be expected of us and to the extent that our voters and our target group can tolerate it. We'll take part in this, even though the risk of this kind of media privatisation can be very high, unless we're careful enough. We have a whole series of problems in this area now. There's a lot of reading, there's a lot of looking, I can believe that tomorrow, if one boss, one pasha, wants to be painted there every day, he and his family, the way we're used to seeing it in Serbia. We'll hold out. Since there are no more programming alliances, socialist alliances of the working people, and since there is no longer the ideological matrix that we have all attacked, often with the right, now there is only legal regulation, there is what we have as a state and it is not much at this time. And there, I'd say, care for all of us for a large number of journalists in the local media, and these are extraordinary people who didn't deserve to serve anyone tomorrow, and some of them are obviously going to happen. So, I don't want them to have that fate, they'll always have my vote not to, but that's what happened based on political will in one social moment in this country, and it can't go back to the way someone wants it to be. But we're going to vote for this, Mr. Minister, and we're going to follow what's going on in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16720	The word is by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, authorised representative of G17 Plus. I see a good atmosphere today, sayings, thank you for the protection of written media, and the proverb is otherwise a scriba manent, verba volunteer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information. He practically has two members or two topics that we need to discuss today, and we will discuss this at the session of the Committee on Culture and Information itself, and this is about extending the deadline for the privatisation of local media owned by local self-government, written and printed media. The law is quite clear and he says local media, i.e. printed media owned by local self-government, stop working by April 22nd this year. So whether it will stop working or be privatised, it depends on the media themselves how high they are and on the interest that the government has in that environment. Certainly, we'd like it to be a privatisation, that these media and these journalists continue to work, just about what my esteemed predecessor was saying. I am pleased to say that the Committee on Culture and Information asked the Ministry for further information on the number of public messages to be stopped in accordance with the Public Information Act on 6 December 2004. We have also tried to reach the number of employees in these votes, about their future status, whether there is a social programme or whether these people will stay on the street. The answer we received from the Ministry of Culture on 12 January 2005 was that the Ministry of Culture and Information in these conditions cannot rightly keep records of texts owned by local self-government, since there is no legal possibility of doing so. So this relates to this second part of the record, but what was important to us as a Committee and why the whole story was initiated, it was that these media were late to privatise or stop working for one simple reason, at least the majority, because the previous Ministry of Culture, not what Mr. Kodedinović had done, but previously interpreted the law so that local self-government could be the owner of the media. Of course, the law makes it clear that it cannot be the founder and that is a clear way to democratisation the printed media in Serbia. I'll apologize. It's just an indicative example. So we're going to take an example of a city where in a printed media, the current director of this printed media, and it's founded by a local self-government, tells a man who wrote for these media for many years, for this newspaper, that they no longer count on his services, because in his address he attacks the president of the municipality or mayor. The man who has long experience, is an associate of these newspapers, of course not attacking, but is critical about what that mayor or president of the municipality is doing and says, "I'm sorry, but I've been writing for this medium for 20 years, I've even written about the previous director badly. The current director says - dear sir, write about me whatever you want worst, don't write bad about the mayor or the president of the municipality, because he won't pay for these 50 employees. It's precisely because there's no local sheriff who's going to create a local policy through the media in the way he's going to be photographed, this is the law's intensities that no one can set up a public record and manipulate it in this way. So that goes for the state, too, that goes for local self-government. Another thing about this law, which concerns the record that should be kept by the Ministry of Culture, namely, G17 plus, in whose name I speak here and whose views I represent, here will have a little more objections or a little more questions to ask, first of all, the Minister of Culture. Therefore, it is clear that this type of record is needed because of the transparency of the media. In no way should media records, which are printed, which are electronic, prevent the freedom of the media. This is about one database the Ministry of Culture wants to make. Here the question arises, since the bill says that the records are not mandatory, what is achieved by optional records? If we look at the amendments that have arrived at this law, they can be classified, when it comes to the records, in two types: one kind of amendment speaks of the fact that there should be no record, and another that the records must exist, and if someone does not respect the records, it must bear the consequences for that. I simply think that in this form, so where the records are voluntary, it means nothing, because in which way you will force or intrigue certain media to register. Based on this record, this state, therefore, would simply know who is the founder of certain media, whether there is a possibility of some illicit media concentration, whether some television owners are at the same time also those who participate in the issue of some printed media. In this way you want to arrange this very serious area in a very serious way, by determining who it is. You can't use capital, with money that doesn't have a specific origin, and in that sense I support the existence of records. And if that's the way it's going to make transparency possible, then that record, I think, has to be mandatory for everyone or should not be this casual. So, I suggest that when the Committee on Culture and Information discusses these amendments, which in some way can correct or corrupt the intensity of the Proposer himself, simply include the professional public in this whole story, so that we can come up with the best possible compromise solution, thus not jeopardising anyone's freedom, that there is simply no one endangering or suggesting that it threatens. It's perfectly free to open the media, of course when we talk about printed media, it doesn't limit you to work freely. I repeat, the records should be mandatory for everyone or should not be. It also opens up another possibility, a question for the legislator of this law, so we don't get into a situation where we might double a record. So, the Broadcasting Agency, which thank God is working, and we've received a proposal from their statute, and I'm guessing we'll be talking about that statute soon, of course preparing everything that is necessary to maybe start handing out licenses concerning electronic media as of September and October. She already has one recording obligation in law itself. Whether it will be a duplication of the record or this will only apply to the printed media, that is the question that all of us need together in this discussion or in the discussion when there are details, about the amendments, to give an answer. So what is very important and what is of course significant for the party G17 plus, and I suppose it is also important for the public, these amendments, these proposals to change something or this bill does not have that obligation which should be a condition for the start of the work of the media. The media, of course, are working, the printed media is certainly formed and started working without such a obligation, and there is no possibility that the state will put any pressure on the media in this way. This is what seems most important to me, that the media are working freely, and on the other hand it would be good for the Ministry of Culture to certainly get the opportunity to properly observe how this law is being implemented, so what is their obligation to control the implementation of this law, because in this situation when it comes to the media, and especially about the printed media, we have come to a paradoxical situation that maybe tycunisation of the media or if we can say the tabloidisation of the media in Serbia exists at the moment. It's not good, of course, as it's not good that we don't know who the founders and media owners are, that we don't know what capital there is. We can't get those basics that would be significant. As the public record has no legal personality, and you know that the founder of a public note, some association, an organization that deals, of course I make up, exporting raspberries, producing bricks, and then publishing newspapers. It simply has to distinguish what and what capital the media is dealing with. What matters, of course, seems to me to listen to media experts talking about it, not what we MPs get sitting here as an impression or looking at, reading the media. What media experts are saying is that quite intricacies have appeared in the media, in some particular media, so that two sources simply do not ask for information, which is one of the principles of journalism, or that both sides are not heard, or that they are often called for anonymous sources. I think a kind of record, which will be put in place in the right way, that no one will be threatened by it, will allow the culture ministry to rightly monitor how the media situation is developing in Serbia. In this context, the G17 Plus will support this bill, and it simply remains that, when we discuss details, we find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16722	The word has an authorised representative of the Democratic Party, Mr Stanimirovic. It will be shared in writing to you, but in order not to be misunderstood why I said this was the last point, because of the need for the committees to discuss in detail and declare the system laws, today the proposals for the law on higher education, the protection of competition, advertising, the protection of citizens, the public administration and civil servants have been officially withdrawn, so that the Assembly is in a relaxed situation. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16723	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, there are many areas that are truly unsettled in this country. One of these areas is certainly the area of information, and there is indeed a need for a sense of order. From this pay phone from Mr. Minister and my predecessor, Mr. Lazarevic, I heard that two types of amendments to the Law on Public Information are foreseen, the re-introduction of public journals and the extension of the deadline for privatising the printed media. When we talk about the part of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Public Information where the register of public texts is reintroduced, I will agree with my colleagues that this principle of non-reportability will effectively prevent access to this problem. We know that the new Public Information Act, which is currently in force, is a fact-finding obligation to record the media, and that the impression was inserted, for example, for the printed media, which was obliged to be printed in every public note. However, the question arises, in the Constitutional Charter and the European Convention allow for the establishment of texts without record and I fear that a law that does not provide for criminal provisions cannot, in fact, achieve its objective. On the other hand, I respect what Mr. Minister said that this should not remind us of some previous time, so that this recording would be in the sense of some kind of repression or that some kind of press pressure is being put on the media through this recording. I have proposed here an amendment precisely because this article is being deleted, because I do not believe that the optionalness of the record itself will meet the objective of this law. We now have the applicable law that the printed media should be privatised by April 22nd. They haven't privatised themselves, they're still working perfectly normal, there's no problem, and that's why we can pass a law on recording that also has no criminal provisions, and then ultimately we won't achieve the goal, because the one who doesn't register will also have no consequences. In the existing Public Information Act, as explained in the explanation, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 43/03, provided for in Article 14(2), that the founders of public reads cannot be indirectly, either directly state and territorial autonomy, as well as an institution, entity and other legal entity which is in the predominantly state-owned or which is financed in whole or in part by public income, unless provided for by a special law governing the field of broadcasting. That's what I've stated in the light of my amendment. Until that date there was a record of this type of message, and afterwards they could not even be established. So, the existing register, abolished by the adoption of a new law, is valid, because after that, new information companies could not be established under the law, and most of them owned by state capital and others financed from public income. That's why this could not be acceptable in this sense. There is one amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and I think we should look somewhere in the middle between these two, my amendment and this amendment, a way to resolve this. Since the Constitutional Charter and the European Convention allow for the establishment of texts without record, we will not achieve the objective. How do we make there's order in this area anyway? Let's say someone can print a newspaper without an impression, with the aim of saying that it spits out any political organization, any individual, betrays them only once and never again, and without the impression. If there's no record of it, if there's no impression, what's the address to which the lawsuit can be filed? It doesn't exist. So we need to find a way to know the headquarters of someone who deals with public information, who is the editor-in-chief, etc. It may also be an opportunity on the Information Committee to see that some kind of benefit is given. I don't know what that can be, but we can think about that some kind of benefit to those who are registered in public journals, because there's no way, there's no obligation, we're not going to achieve the goal, and we're going to first of all to create a system that's going to be arranged in the field of public information. As for the extension of the privatisation deadline, we really support this, because, in fact, on April 22nd, the press release was a deadline. That deadline's already gone. I think there's too much reason here in the draft amendments to this law, a deadline for electronic media, and I think it's July 1st, 2006. They are largely concentrated, for example, as is the case with me in Vrbas, where there is Radio Vrbas, and now there is a TV Buck and a printed newspaper "Glas". They're all within one house, it's hard to share and privatize it now, it's too much of an explanation, although we can't agree that as a society in transition, we're constantly coughing and we're constantly extending some deadlines. So the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group wants us to address this problem in a quality way and help this to be a law that will allow order to come into play in this area as well. There were stories here, and we went back to the old topic, we heard from Mr. Baralic, and then the answer from Mr. Lazarevic, whether we should privatise these local media at all. We're in a situation where we can often hear the presidents of the municipalities today, vice presidents of the municipalities, who blatantly promise that they'll arrange for something to be on TV or prevent something from happening on television, or on local radio or on a local list. And it often happens that the opposition parties or others cannot make a point of view, that rule to be heard, and the other side is not respected. We have a situation, as well as in my local list, that in the same number, contrary to the Public Information Act, the answer to something that is shown as a problem. We had a situation, the freshest example was in Kragujevac, where there was a famous show about how it was heard in the media why it whispered in church, and where the deputy president of the municipality apologized on behalf of that local media and promised not to do it again. That is why privatisation is needed, which will make it impossible for these local sheriffs, as Mr Lazarevic said, to behave in this way. So, I have an amendment here that I propose to delete, because I find it pointless to re-record this way, but we're willing to participate actively in the work of the board, so that we can find some solution that will enable it, because I don't see any other way in this situation, but to get some kind of benefit. It's like a kind of homework assignment, to figure out what this benefit is that we could offer this kind of public message, to be interested in recording, to have a record. Because there could really be a newspaper in one day or a week to complete a task, without an impression, without a record. The question is, what is the address we need to address, because it's really gotten really hard in this country to defend ourselves against lies. We're aware of that. I think that someone who's been in journalism for 14 years has the right to say that, because there's no profession that's more hurt in these places, many have been killed, and this one, especially, when we remember that they were killing words in these areas first, and then they were killing bullets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16724	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirovic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic. If there is the same mood in future discussions, I remind you, Ministers and MPs, that there is now a possibility that, at the end of the principle debate, an amendment would be formulated, which would solve one issue, since I see that there is a will and I assume that we will hear similar opinions in the future. So to define something that isn't defined. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16725	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, between the blatantness of the tycoon who can become the owner of the media and the president of the municipality chosen by the will of the people, I always define myself behind the people's will. The people are a source and a stream of power, and if I had to define myself, I would define myself for the people's will and the haughtiness that comes out of them as less evil. It's not good either. Remember, however, that local media today, whose founders of local self-government, have a board of directors, have a director, so for whose choice each assembly gives consent to the parliamentary majority. So it's not the same. We have different experiences in Serbia in other privatisations. That was my idea. Otherwise, I know you can't put this wheel back in reverse. We've got the law, we're going to privatization. I was just talking about the real consequences and the risks that would lead to the obvious privatization of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16726	Thank you. On what grounds, I'm sorry. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted two parliamentary groups: the DSS and the SRS. The first to be reported is the Messenger of the people, Vukosav Tomašević, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16727	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is already in the opening statement of Mr. Minister and in the discussions of colleagues that the proposal changes and complements the Law on Public Information carries two topics. One question is public records, and another question is the deadline for privatising public votes, which are the founders of local self-government. First, I'm going to say something about these two questions. This matter of record is neither new nor unknown. It has been solved several times in our legal practice in one of two ways. So there was a record or no record. We will always find, both professional and legal circles, supporters and one and the other attitudes, i.e. both practices. What I know from the experience I've had in the last twenty years, as far as I've been following this area, is that it hasn't been any special conveniences, no special faults shown by either one or the other. I personally stand at the view that there is an excuse to enter one of these records, because there are certain reasons, which are stated in the light of this law, which is why such a record exists and should exist. As always, above all in the press circles, he will be adversaries of this record, with a basic explanation that I do not accept and understand, and normally he always appears in the debates, which is that in this way he restricts the freedom of the media and that this is a kind of state pressure and state control of public words. World practice on this issue is different, so we can't find any concrete examples, with what a colleague from the DS said earlier that some legal solutions in Europe require that there is no such record. I say, at this point in time, I believe that, for these reasons which are stated in the reasoning of the law and in this opening presentation of Mr. Minister, the bill should be supported and the record should be established. I don't think it's as good as it was given in the bill. Again, this record here is kind of a voluntary record. Amendments have been given. One has given the DSS, it introduces records as mandatory, under the threat of sanctions for those who are not recorded within a certain period of time after the law enters into force, and the other is the DS amendment that proposes that the records be deleted. I think it should be defined as one of these two variants: that the records exist as mandatory and binding, that as such we put it into law and in that sense should be accepted by the DSS amendment; or that the records are not introduced at all. It seems to me that according to this principle of volunteering, as it is now proposed, it kind of loses its meaning, because the records won't be comprehensive. A possible solution, and that should be considered, is that we have space within what the President of the Assembly has said, perhaps some third solution is possible, an interdecision, which is to offer some kind of stimulation for those who register. I don't have a proposal right now, nor have I heard anyone make a proposal, which would be what they would offer as some kind of carrot for all those who register. I suggest that we all think about it for a little while and then solve this proposal. I think it would be good to reach a compromise on that. This isn't the question of that rank that we should be fighting politically and that anyone is collecting political points. When it comes to this second topic touched by the law, which is the deadline for privatising the media whose founders of local self-government, as far as I'm concerned, it's not the first time this deadline has moved. I think we've already moved this deadline once, now it's done again. We are here somewhat in a specific situation in relation to both the environment and to something that is European practice. Little where in the world and in Europe there is this kind of media that has been built with us for decades, and these are the local media that are the founders of local communities. That's why last time, if there are colleagues here who were actors in the past term when we were working on the law, first on broadcasting, and then on the current Public Information Act, they had a lot of intense objections and pressures from OSCE representatives and representatives of the Council of Europe here in Belgrade, just as we do to eliminate those practices of these media, which are the founders of the local community, which they experience as state media. They see it all the time, the truth is, we have an example in the past that there has been a lot of it, a possibility of manipulation, and they see the variation that such media is directly controlled by local authorities. We from the DSS stand on the concept that these media should be privatized. If you are in favour of the concept of a liberal market economy, then it must also be in the media sphere. If there is no state media in general at the state level, which would be at lower levels. We stand on the fact that these media are to be privatized. He's right, colleague Baralic, when he realizes these problems that exist. It also threatens to be one part of the media, or I don't know to what extent local or republican tycoons buy you. The threat that in less developed areas in the Republic for such media will not be customers at all will be no one's interest in buying them. Because there are environments in which such media, I know, because for many years I have worked in such a media and I have been in the management bodies of the Association of Joint Radio Stations of Serbia and I know that neither then nor now in certain municipalities in Serbia, which are not sufficiently developed, it is simply hard for the media to work on economic principles, to be profitable, and to be informed, not to be that gossip radio station that plays turbo-folk music and only broadcasts ads. Making a serious information programme or an informative note in the smallest cities and municipalities is a serious job and it costs, and in certain situations it cannot bring profit. These are all the dangers that can lead to a number of these local media, unfortunately disappearing, that a number of our citizens are left without the media informing them of events in the local environment. I think it's something that's due to the transition. Many things disappear and some acquired habits are lost and rights acquired in various areas, so we must suffer in the field of public information. What I see and what I want to draw attention to from this payphone is that this deadline should no longer be moved and that this debate, Mr. Minister, and the Ministry, should send a clear political message to all the founders of these media and to all the employees of these media, that there will be no more movement of deadlines. Of course, it should not be a political threat and that no one takes it as a political threat, but to be firm in that attitude, because it seems to me that in the good part of the media there is an obstruction of privatisation and not that they do nothing to privatise themselves, but that they are doing everything not to privatise themselves, both local media employees and some managers in certain municipalities, thinking that they will still be able to control these media. So, I think we should send a clear political message that this is the last amendment to the law in this sense and that, after the deadline set by Article 2 of this amendment of the law, there will be no more movement or failure. The media that are privatised by that deadline continues to be privatised, and whoever does not privatise should be shut down by law. But now we should send a clear message, I mean the Committee on Culture and Information, and in some ways this Assembly should, too, take it seriously and people who work in these media and take people in local self-government seriously. So specific about this law. I would like to take advantage of Mr. Minister's presence and the opening of this topic in the Assembly, since very little is said about the issue of informing here in the Assembly, to draw attention to a few more issues that should be the subject of this assembly's attention. First of all, I hope to appeal once again, I have done so for the past few years, that it will finally begin to settle and introduce order and law into the ether and electronic media in this country. The agency is formed, all conditions are met, and another regulatory body has been formed in the area of telecommunications. I need all of us together, first of all, to think about the Committee on Culture and Information, then the Ministry and then the Agency, to do everything possible to get that frequency-sharing contest started as soon as possible and to get it into the media sphere. Another matter that needs urgent resolution is the issue of media concentration. We at the DSS even had the idea that through a few amendments to this amendment and the addition of the law we regulate the issue of illicit media concentration. Now I will not give details of all this, it can be discussed in one way or another, but it is evident that the media in Serbia have been overcome by the threat of tycunisation. There is a serious threat that a small group of people will quickly take control of the media in Serbia. What devastating consequences for the overall development of social relations, for the development of democracy and for the future of not only the media sphere, but for the future of Serbia at all, I will not speak to this opportunity. There is no need to point out in particular in this congregation, but I think measures must be taken to prevent it. In that sense, Mr. Minister, it should be urgent to prepare at least one more amendment to the existing law, to insert into the existing law a section that would precisely and precisely regulate the issue of permissible, or illicit media concentration, or perhaps consider adopting a special law on the subject itself, as part of a package of media laws. Whether or not the monopoly law, which I know is working in certain ministries, should be treated this topic, again it is a question that lawyers and experts should say, perhaps some parallel practice in the countries of Europe etc. I think it is urgent that both your ministry and this assembly work in that direction, so that what can happen in Serbia does not happen, that someone controls the media sphere, the media, and controls political and social life in Serbia, and we already have examples of how this can happen. It is also urgent to adopt this advertising law, which is now withdrawn from the procedure. I understand that this had to be done in order to speed up the adoption of some other laws, so that this session would have its order, its end and its meaning, but I think it should be very soon, if not before, then at this autumn session this law should return to the procedure and regulate that area. Unfortunately, we are also at a great distance with the world and with Europe, because what is advertised today in the media in Serbia, and the way it seems is something that is really difficult to find in the countries of developed democracy in Europe. Finally, I will say something, I feel the need to say it as a journalist first of all, and then as an MP, and that is the need to bring, with the help and the committees of power, the Ministry and all others who have a good will, something that will be called a journalism code or a professional code. What is happening today in the media in Serbia is really bordering on something that is little in the history of journalism. It's a work of total media tabulation, not only of the media, but of public life. Thus, such a situation in the media stems from the tabulation of life. In Serbia, the media is absolutely free, but they are free of responsibility. There is no responsibility in Serbia for the spoken public word. At this point, Serbia has no responsibility for the written word. I mean, I risk being misunderstood by my colleagues, that at the esnafian associations in Serbia at the moment, there is no power or will to bring a code of journalism, which would introduce order and, let me say, restore order to the media in Serbia. Today in Serbia, unfortunately, there is almost no normal press. What's supposed to be a normal print is a yellow print, what's supposed to be a yellow print, it's a tabloid, what's supposed to be a tabloid, pornography, etc. It's all moved one step away. Look what the media looks like. You have an incredible amount of misinformation, half-truth, lies; about a language spoken in the media that I don't speak. I really think anyone who's well-intentioned in the media area has to worry. That should come back and put it in order. It's regulated by the professional code. Unfortunately, we don't have that code, but we have this kind of practice. All this stuff that I've been talking about, and some other questions in this sphere, perhaps, Mr. Minister, indicate a fact, and that's what we've been talking about, that we should approach a new law on information, complete, comprehensive. I know it's a serious job, and I know we almost passed this law. But I think that in the field of media sphere, journalistic professions and freedom of information, as well as information in general, there are so many problems that it would not be far from the mind to start thinking about the adoption of a new information law, which would then change the practice of total media life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16728	Thank you, Mr. Tomasevic. Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth. Let the People's Messenger of Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16729	Ladies and gentlemen, the current Information Act is one very, very bad law. We heard that from some of the other colleagues who were talking about amending that law. We in the SRS think that the only solution is to seriously approach the regulation of this matter in a completely new and democratic way. When we passed this law, though it was in the previous assembly of this Parliament, we really made everything that we had in particular about this law and everything that preceded that law, and you all remember, before the five-octobaric euphoria, how many calls were made to the law at the time, which, democratically referred to as "Vučić's Law." But probably many today complain about one such law, because what we now have as the Information Law has consequences for everything that is happening in the media today, in the means of informing Serbia, and mostly what colleagues, who have spoken about these amendments to the law, have emphasized in their own way No one's here. This is amazing. [[Invader from the O.R.: No president.]] In this Rules of Procedure, which nobody has to sit here under, it doesn't say that they don't have to be president or chairman. This is really amazing and unserious. So, the result of the bad Information Act is what was current these days, which was these faceless pathological lies by Natasa Kandic and Veran Matic against Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who, of course, filed a criminal complaint against the Republic Public Prosecutor and against Natasa Kandic and against Veran Matic. We certainly expect the Republic Public Prosecutor to react within his jurisdiction and his authority, as we expect the Minister to understand well-intentioned all the objections he has heard here today, and most of them come down to the fact that the current Information Act is a bad law and that it is necessary to approach the adoption of a really serious information law. We all know that the area of information is one of the most important areas of every society and state. Because if we want to act politically and freely, if we really want to be informed objectively, we need to have support for that in a good information law. We remember, of course, the times when she was the previous government, it seemed to me two and a half years, without the information law, because they put the Democrats out of force, also completely anti-business at that time and unconstitutional, the Information Act, and then we had this one vacuum period when even at the time of the infamous "Sabela" action, the anti-constitutional also, when the then minister, so without law, shut down the media. You remember TV from Triestenik. "Nacional" -- a newspaper that's been shut down. After that, the return-application was passed by the Public Information Act, in order to be legally legalised, which was then illegal, i.e. before that law was done. Indeed, there was no listening to what the MPs felt about the government’s proposal at that time, and today it was a positive regulation. That is why we have, among other things, the proposal of the current government and the current Minister of Kadadinovic for the amendments and additions to this law, which is essentially nothing - when you adopt these amendments and supplements, and of course the majority of them will not be corrected in the field of information. I assume, Minister, you agree with that. To comment on these amendments and additions. We've submitted, of course, the amendments. When details are discussed, we'll also talk about amendments. In Article 1, you have proposed a new Article 14a, which speaks of the data, about the public messages to be recorded, to be entered in the register of public texts. You said that the data were entered in the records necessary and used to provide the necessary data to other competent authorities in order to carry out the public information activity uninterrupted, etc. The registration shall be kept with the Ministry of Information Affairs. You didn't put any restrictions anywhere, that it must be known that there are some means of public information that don't deserve to be recorded as means of public information, like TV B92. It is a means of public informing notor lie, anti-Serbian hysteria and such a means of public information does not deserve to be called a means of public information. In this same Article 1, the new Article 14v, you said that the application form for registration and the closer way to keeping records is prescribed by the Minister responsible for public information affairs. The principled position of the Serbian Radical Party is that never in the law of the minister, as an individual, are given any authority, but must stand for the ministry, and within the ministry, of course, there are sublegal acts that determine what who does within the ministry. In that sense, we have submitted that amendment. We have suggested that Article 2 of your bill be deleted. Article 2 refers to Article 101 of the basic law, and this Article 101 says that the founders of the public vote are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law within 90 days of the date of its entry into force. Public votes, which are the founders of state and territorial autonomy, or institution, that is to say, the company that is in the predominantly state property or public vote, which is being financed by public revenue in general or by a heavy part, and which is not subject to the provisions of the law governing the area of broadcasting, cease to work within two years of the basic law, and you have now proposed that it be three years from the date of entry into force of this law. What is the point and why have we even intervened in amendment to this article? Simply to draw attention to both the congregation's majority and you, ministers, as a representative of the promoters. I expect you to tell us and explain to this Parliament why these two years have passed without the obligation not to privatise all those media that were to be privatized under this law. What made this law in this part of the ministry respected? You say that in good time with this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information, you have addressed the Assembly. Yes, it was February 17th, 2005. That's when the MPs got this proposal. Why the president of the assembly didn't take care of the dates, so to put it on the agenda earlier, it's the president's business again. But you have a grudge, too. It's too short a time. If that's what you were, the 17th time you spoke here in the opening statement, you said it didn't go off the starting point on the privatization of these media, you knew it before this February 17th, and you were supposed to act under existing laws to simply comply with the law. You have certain powers there. However, the law is what it is, I have said more than once that it is too bad, but no matter what it is as long as the law is in force, it has to be applied, so whatever it is. Otherwise, to avoid confusion, the SRS is programmed to privatise all media except national television and in that sense is not our observation, not to get the wrong idea, that we might not want to privatise. No, on the contrary, we want to, and we've been saying it backwards for years, but there's another problem here. I'm sure you, Minister, and all your colleagues know that they're not formally privatized, but all the TVs, all the radios, all the newspapers on the ground are practically privatized. The policy of editorialism is privatized, and it's even sadder and worse. And that's why you say no one thinks of privatizing. And what he's going to privatize, he's got a municipal budget, the municipality is funding his newspaper, and there's this powermaker whose party is ruling in that municipality, or he's a financial power man, he's actually running an editorial policy on state spending, that is, the cost of local self-government. Of course, he has no idea he's giving his money. She's got TV, and she's not paying for it. Where there is it than in the country of Serbia. That's what you have in all municipalities in Serbia's territory. We have had an objection and an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, which states that a regulation establishing a form for keeping records, we are now talking about the record referred to in Article 1, and which will be closer to determining how to keep records, will be adopted by the Minister responsible for public information activities within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. In the second position, it says that registration applications can be filed from 45 days from the date of entry into force of this law. There's no reason for you to have that long 30 days. You can do this, or competent services within the Ministry, within 15 days and in that sense has been our intervention. One more sentence to get back to these so-called. non-privatised media in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. You know what the basic objections on the ground are to the owners of these TV stations or radio stations? They say it can be changed over a month, two or six months, five times by the owner, and each one has to pay the frequency again. So it doesn't get radio frequency, it gets Marco, Janko, etc. There are a lot of problems with these laws both in the field and in the media. I am now talking about this formal, and the fundamental problems are that unfortunately, we in Serbia do not have independent media, that every medium, and these large and powerful and those smaller by local self-government, have their own bosses, to behave as the bosses say, that objective journalism, unfortunately, is dead and that again, we can put all of this back into some normal frameworks of good and democratic principles built by the public information law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16730	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let the MP Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in principle, I think this law will have the same fate as everyone else. Whoever we're discussing here, at least five more times we're going back to the same law to talk about him again. So no law since this congregation exists has been adopted all of a sudden, and no objection has been adopted, and it's always come back and back and we've wasted time. I'll say global. In the beginning, it is said that the intention is to prevent monopoly, concentration, etc. I just have to say that now we have, I'm going to use a rough word, a thief named Bogoljub Karic, who still steals the state through Mobtel, steals the money, and pays his TV with those money, where he paints on TV, and skis, and swims, and makes some speeches in front of the bus, etc. The other day, he gave a speech that contained so many unknown words to him that he could not even read them. If your intentions are honorable, you'd better take care of one such situation. Also, the intention of the former Dossov authorities was seen by all of us during the Sabre, when all the media who thinks differently were closed. So, total media freedom has been destroyed. You now want to make, your intention may not be like that, but it can be interpreted, you can make a list, and right next to it you can put a cross or a dot of those who don't like Baby, who don't like Dinkic, etc., so when you need a lock, or financial police, or whatever they call them in the media as Dinkic's Kerbers. From what I've heard, you've made a public stand against it. If that's what you're saying this isn't DOS, but look at the situation after the lies that Natasa Kandic told over the past period. We've spent a million times here at the pay phone as the media has been acting. Most of the media hit it on all the bells, but no denials, no film showing countersituation, the Serbian injuries, were broadcast almost on any television. I don't want to count who they are right now. Maybe I'll miss one. The situation isn't right either, and I think that should be done more than this. Also here you have the thieving power of Canak-Karić-Tadic, who uses taxpayers' money in Vojvodina to finance his yellow media in municipalities, their, as they call them, more and more lies. If your intentions are honorable and you want to solve this, a media problem, you should call for responsibility, as a minister, as a government, as a secretary of information in Vojvodina, infamous among the media, Mr Djulic, who selectively helps the media in Vojvodina, i.e. both to him and to his coalition, Canak-Karić-Tadic, and to add Kandic, not to forget, answers. I would suggest that we drop a law like this, try to make that public information law as soon as possible, break that torture that exists over some non-insects, and that this lie and everything that's going on on TV is interrupted, so that we try to solve things in concrete terms, not this partial.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16732	The People's Messenger Goran Cvetanović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Information Act is on the agenda. To be perfectly honest, mostly on the agenda of the National Parliament's session, we have amendments and additions. Regardless of the repeated objections that SRS MPs are constantly making arguments, I think that the work of the republic's parliament would be much shorter if those amendments and what SRS lawmakers say would be respected, heard, respected. After all, only when it comes to this proposed law, if they had listened to our demands and our arguments in good time, would there certainly not have been these changes and additions. As a representative of the SRS, I really don't mind setting up a system of social and public intelligence, primarily to respect that Article 46. The Constitution, which guarantees freedom of the press, as well as other types of public information. In April 2003, the Law on Public Information was passed and here it was almost two years ago, and for this time period that was behind us nothing was done. The minister had just agreed, yes, he answered yes for that period of time that it didn't start from a dead end. Even then, we said the printed public messages should be on the same level, along with the electronic media, and there was no reason to privatise the printed public messages in a shorter period of time, because for them it was April 2005, while for the electronic media it was July 1st, 2006. I don't want to say whether printed public texts and electronic media are important, but printed public texts, whether the founder is a local self-government or someone else, can in many ways also be our fellow citizens living in the United States, Australia's informic, via e-mail, and through some other means of correspondence and real information, especially about places where they come from, because these central media can mainly follow through satellite programs. Even then we knew that the time period that was given was a short period of time. The information that it is difficult to get into the privatisation of a part of the structure, because it needs to distinguish property, is true, but that argument is from before, first of all, because it was publicised at the level of local self-government and today it does not know, except who the founder is, what their property is, whether they are the owners of that building, because they are not catastrian registered, so it took a longer period of time to solve it. There were a lot of problems with members of the Radio-Difusion Council, there we had a lot of names, some people who obviously couldn't present those organizations or structures that proposed them and almost a year we lost about it, and later we formed an agency in this regard. That agency obviously didn't do anything in the meantime. The explanation that it is necessary to seek the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to privatise space, because a certain procedure is needed, so you are in that government and I think you have good co-operation with other members of the government and with the prime minister and that you can influence your authority to get rid of it in the best possible way. I don't quite understand what you've given in your explanation among the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure, where at the end of the paragraph you define: "In order for the privatisation process of the media to be properly monitored, in the sense of preventing illicit media concentration, it is necessary to establish a public record as soon as possible. "As far as the records are concerned, we are fully agreed and required to have records. We think there should be mandatory records, because if you're doing something and you don't have any consequences, there's absolutely no possibility of ending this process. The MPs themselves said in their statement on this law that the wealth of the media shows that some society is democratically oriented, as the DSS MP said is necessary, when it comes to media privatisation, the concept of a liberal market and economy. Since representatives of the SRS agree that the wealth of the media is equal to the wealth of society and the wealth of democracy, as well as the need for the concept of a liberal market and economy, then I do not understand what it means to prevent illicit media concentration. You need to prescribe clear criteria for what certain media should have, so what of the technique, what of the frame, how many programs, how many hours of a specific program to have, and there's nothing controversial about it. But the media itself must fight for a place under the sun, meaning, in Serbia's territory, and based on their quality, their programme, the number of people who will consume these emissions and information, be on these principles of the market economy, to do positive business or negative business, and not by some methods to solve it. Or licenses, as Mrs Radeta has said, to tie to the name and last name; no, but to certain media that are represented as democratic or not. If we have TV B92, and the Serbian people are muddy all the time, acting in the most incorrect way, unargumentedly presenting certain facts and without any consequences doing so, and if it accuses a certain person who represents the largest political party in our territory and has no consensus on all this, obviously democracy in our society has not yet prevailed. We may be in the initial phase, at the very beginning, but obviously we're far from that right path. If Karic, I think that Mr Dedjanski thought of Karic as the owner of BK Television, the founder of a political party and through his own media that covers not only the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also much more, means every day of his programmes, I have nothing against it, but we do not think that we can all act equally politically. It should be seen if we have all the time a conflict on the G17 and the newspaper "Kurr", where "Kurr" publishes many malfeasances, thefts, evidence of corruption for individual ministers, members, vice-presidents of the G17 government, and then absolutely nothing happens, or the public prosecutor because of this information he has received must react and that these evidences that are given prove relevant or simply struggle so that then the editor-in-chief of "Kurirra" has consequences. But it certainly is not appropriate for income management to solve these problems. So, if someone accuses you, you have to come out loud and clear and deny all that with clear evidence or that you have consequences. In this way we absolutely come to a vicious circle, where absolutely no one has a solution. The question arises what has been done for these two years, as the deadline was to privatise the media by 22 April 2005. Two months have passed since then, all those presses still working, none of it was. I don't think there's a moral right on this one when it's up and running for a year. Now you've had this deadline, you've been obliged to honor it. When a law is passed, it is necessary to time-limit anything that is passed. I am sure that we as MPs need to be flexible, because we have to articulate the needs of citizens and the problems that are happening in society, but regardless of which, if the time period has not been respected twice so far, I don't know why this time period of one year would be respected if there are no conventions. If we have printed media in Leskovac, let's say "Our word", which has been working for 60 years, and now for 61 years, there's certainly been problems, and surely 50 employees are afraid of what's going to happen to them. The fact is that there are a large number of employees, because as the local government came, it accepted journalists who were in fact mediators of the political party they represented or who hired them. But there must be a way for these media to be privatized in the best possible way, and for that person who does privatisation to continue to work better and better. The period of a year isn't small, but if they're two years behind us and we haven't done anything, I don't think it's enough for a year. So I urge you on behalf of the SRS, together with your associates, to take the privatisation process more seriously, to bring concrete measures, to define. I know what you're sending to the local media, because I'm the president of the Leskovac City Assembly, so I have your memos, but I think you have to do it much faster, much better, and that way you can have our support. In this case, we can't support you, because we don't think you've achieved the results we expected from you in these two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16734	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let MP Zoran Antić be prepared, who will be the last registered speaker for this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the explanation provided by the Ministry of Culture, it is recognised in some way that there is complete chaos in the media field in Serbia. The latest Public Information Act, which was adopted in 2003, is the most responsible that today there is virtually no record of media in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So those whose mouth was full of democracy, order and legality had just thrown out of the aforementioned law a provision that envisioned the introduction of a register of public texts. What is the state of the media in Serbia today? Today in Serbia, media work is mainly created by authorities, if their founders are state, autonomous province or local self-government, or media owners, who indirectly determine reporting according to the interests of their political party or business policy. Unfortunately, in Serbia there are also media that, they say, produce such a media hack against institutions, faces, political parties that they do not want. It's enough to mention B92 and the way it damages the state and the people with its editorial policy. Perhaps the inactivity of the state authorities to sanction the publication of all kinds of untruths contributes to the conduct of certain media as untouchable masters of human destiny. It is also known that information houses that have the status of public enterprises will sooner or later be privatised. That's why we have phenomena, especially at the local level, that certain media houses are rapidly dressed, buying new modern equipment from the budget of local self-government for already well-known buyers. Of course, the state must make sure that when privatising electronic and printed texts, they do not come into the hands of the owner who, under the influence of external factors, can have a negative impact on public opinion, especially when it comes to the attitude of citizens to the military, police, the Serbian Orthodox Church, Kosovo and Metohija. As for the public opinion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no need for any media. They'll have enough to look into their pockets and their work books and they'll know what our government is like. This primarily refers to major media in Serbia, which is of great interest to the ownership of large media tycoons. There is also a large number of media that have long worked illegally or what is said in black. After the adoption of these amendments and additions, and concerning public records, there will be those who will not be recorded, but will continue as the old one. The deadline to be mentioned as the final one for privatising information houses with public business status means April 2005, almost nothing respected, and I doubt it will be met by an extended deadline, i.e. until July 2006. In many local self-governments, where municipal information companies exist, very significant funds are allocated for their work from the municipal budget. This, above all, refers to those municipalities that, following some megalomanic ambition of a local powerful man, built large radio-television centres, which now do not work or work part, because simply funding is not available. Usually, these local media houses are under direct control and influence by municipal authorities and most come at the time of the local elections when the ruling party in the municipality is favoured to the greatest extent. Also, there are several parts of some information house that generate different incomes. One part of the media house is profitable, the other is tavors, and the third part is lost, and the problem will arise when someone needs to distinguish them and privatize them. I'd also like to ask the minister what he's going to do about those non-recorded media, and it's about municipal information houses, so not about some illegals who occasionally enter the air. It's about local media outlets that have been broadcasting their programme for years, or publishing newspapers. So far, with regard to funding the work of municipal media, it has mostly intervened as needed, unplannedly, when the situation requires some work from the field of reporting, which has not been practiced until then. In the end, I would like to mention one fact that appears in almost all the municipal votes that are under the authority of local self-government. It's about the staff who run these information houses, because it's almost always about blackmailing a majority partner in local government by small parties to get municipal media, board president, director or editor-in-chief. People often come to these places without proper qualifications, and then you can assume the quality of informing citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16736	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the end of a few words about a law that is on the agenda and which, unfortunately, as a few laws before that, shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not working well, that it fails to achieve everything it has given itself. It is obvious that this delay in the privatisation is an indicator that the government is not doing well, that it is not working well enough in the interests of the citizens and I would just say that this bill is not clear enough. I think the deadlines set in it are incomplete, unreal. We have had the opportunity to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act after a year and a half of the work of this government. So it was a pre-election promise in 2003, and only a few months ago did we manage to make those changes. It is quite unreal that a law on media privatisation can be passed, that this assembly is powerful to pass the law in such a relatively short time and possibly implement it, implement it, privatise the media. The law's obviously pretty late. However, there remains a big problem with what will be found in this law if it continues with this as it has been done so far, and I don't think the government has had enough understanding for the problems of local media, because the biggest problem here is local media, primarily printed media. There will be no privatisation of these media and we will be in a position to further monopolize the media. We'll lose the mass of local media. It is obvious that there must be a more complete concept, which may mean co-financing of local media at one stage, that it is necessary to enter privatisation with a clear concept, which would allow the privatization of printed media to show competition, sell at a relatively favourable price and save for citizens of smaller communities, smaller municipalities, which could definitely lose the media at the level of municipalities. The government should, in any case, come out with a serious analysis of the situation in local media, come out with a single action plan that, above all, should include an analysis of economic viability and put us in a situation so that we can all look together at the market opportunities of certain local self-governments. As far as electronic media is concerned, there's a lot of problems. The fact is that we have a non-quality program on local media, and rich in national media, that it is, above all, a fun character, that it is inevitable that we, as a society, define what our goal is and what we do when it comes to the media. The media is a powerful thing, if used in the right way they could help develop and markets, change the system of values, then affirmation of the transition itself, they could be a serious weapon in all the social changes that our country is in today. The problems, which are numerous in the media and a good part of these problems have been cited by my colleagues, unfortunately a little is being solved, and if resolved, is being resolved in part. There's no impression there's one vision. I'm saying, through this law, we'll probably have part of the solution, and part of the solution is in the bill of law when it comes to criminal law, which refers to the responsibility of the spoken word, means slander and insult. What's basic and what seems to me to be a basic thread, which is that we don't have a single strategy or a clear vision of where we go with the media. There are more and more yellow presses, yellow media, and unfortunately, in electronic media, we have more and more promotions of some sweet life, and I'd say nerada, running away from life, from the life problems that pressure citizens every day. The media is turning into a party for the people, instead of being used as an education in the difficult time in which we all live today and through this period of transition that we are going through. Finally, I could say that the SRS will not vote in favour of this bill in any case, because, as I said, it is incomplete, partial and in the best way shows that the Serbian government is not ready and unable to solve problems in the media, which are numerous and amassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16738	Thank you, Mr Antic. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude a principled search, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to hear the word? No, I don't. Someone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The word has Minister Koadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Cacadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16739	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all of you who have spoken very constructively about informing in general about these amendments and the addition of the law. I have truly gained confidence that it is important for all of you to fix the situation in our media, in information, and to get better laws or better laws and than what we now have. I mean, everyone needs to understand that this new deadline, practically, maybe the last deadline, and I'm not going to extend it, because I'm not signing any proposals to extend this deadline. I think it is very important that all those who decide to privatise and that they respect this new deadline practically, if, of course, all of this is accepted. You've opened up a lot of questions about the situation in the media, and that's a topic I'd very much like to talk to you about, but we don't have much time. The fact is that there are many challenges in privatising local self-government media, that there are many dangers, but there are also many advantages. I think the time has come at this stage of democratisation of our society to leave the media in some way to the market, with all the challenges that exist on that market, and on the other hand, to open up the practical possibility that journalists themselves, and when I say journalists, I think of all the people who work in the media, not only in the written, but also in electronic, become, at least theoretically, that they have that possibility, and I think they have a great practical, owner of their own media. I know that all of them, if we talk about local media, and that everyone who lives in that place is asking their local media to follow the rhythm of their lives and these media are very receptive and popular, and they often manage to cope with the competition of big and strong media houses. That's why it's very important that we keep these media. We could say, the deadline has passed and by force all these media can shut down. We'd run out of many media that follow the rhythm of our lives, and that's very important. We'd run out of many newspapers, yes, and those who may not be real journalists and didn't have the opportunity and the time to bake and learn to the end. Let's give them the chance to take this year off seriously, first of all, the chance they have. It is true that the media, not only in the last 10-15 years, but also in the last 60 years, have been very often abused, very often transformed into something that is the greatest danger to the media, which is to be treated, to have treatment, to have the character of weapons for various political struggles. Let's hope that time is more and more for us. I'm saying, let's give the market a real chance, 'cause the market is going to sort of make those editorials that don't work professionally today and those journalists who don't adhere to the basic postulates of their trade to be craftsmen first of all. Simply, the market will not tolerate those who knowingly, deliberately lie, slander and do not do their basic work properly. I believe that this law, and I agree with you that it is not perfect and that it should continue to be brushed, and with many who have advocated it, it is necessary to amend some other provisions, but I just want to say that this is a state of affairs. I understand the criticism at the expense of this government, the fact is that we've put a lot of effort into putting away a lot of things that have stalled, when it comes to law enforcement, we're pushing, to remove these shortcomings. The fact is, now we're ready to start cleaning up the chaos on the air. It's been reported that there are 1,600 emitters. The broadcasting board, as you know, has been in place and will be working very quickly, and I expect that the first practical results will be as early as September. The government's intention is to seduce order, it may in some way sound a little ugly and dangerous, but the fact is that we from one extreme, from the time there were state monopolies in the media, went to another extreme, and where there was a hyperproduction of these media. The fact is that Serbia is not suitable in economic terms for such a crowd of media. That's why we have a lot of people in the media who aren't real professionals or, if you want, if I can say what I love most, make craftsmen. Very often in such a hyperproduction of the media they received something I call three Zs: both employment, and knowledge, and calling. They were and the others, unfortunately, were trained. This is exactly the kind of little amended regulation, and some of the better laws, which this government will take into account, will help to bring journalism back to itself, to return to the trade, and to put first the ones most often in these 10, 15 or 60 years, which are users of media services, so readers, listeners, viewers. I agree that there are many things that we might call inadmissible: the abuse of media for political purposes, and we talk a lot about tycoonisation, about tabs that do inadmissible things. The intention is for me and the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for the media, the government's intention is to kind of grind it all out, but in one legal, normal, human way, and to allow the market to contribute crucially to the return of the profession to journalists and to apply the right press laws. There are many other laws that sanction defamation, which sanction everything that is not allowed in the media. The fact is that many of us, and I have often been targeted by such tabloids, do not use it for various reasons. The fact is that as a society, we have to mature, and I expect that very quickly both as journalists and as people we will be in a different situation, where, above all, we will appreciate what is true and practically where we will all, or where journalists, will, above all, work as real craftsmen. It's not a big shift in this law, I agree, but right now we're starting to have to extend this deadline and that's what's most important. Whether there are benefits for those who will be registered, who will apply, let us once offer a legal provision that will not be too strict, which will not immediately point to some sanctions. What could be the benefits? There have been words about this, as very often various requests for assistance are coming to the Ministry of Culture, including strengthening the transmitters, if they are electronic media. We have often mixed written and electronic media here, although today we need to talk about written media, first of all. Maybe it could be some kind of benefit, but it wouldn't be fair to those who wouldn't sign up. Anyway, I think it's very important that there is one very live communication between the Ministry of Culture, which is in charge of the media, and media houses. I think the Ministry itself, the minister and the people who work there, should be the service of these media and, in the right way, articulate their real needs through the Ministry in order to allow for better conditions or preconditions for the work of these media. Anyway, I recognized in all your discussions one desire for our media to be better, but that's why we're better ourselves. Not to be mistaken, our media image is nothing more than pictures of society. Do we have to break the mirror because we don't like the guy in that mirror? We've got a lot to do. He's still complaining a lot about the media. Journalists themselves do the same thing to associations, who must also understand that they should not be local journalism communities, but that they should fight for many other existential things journalists and for real postulates of a trade called journalism. I think we're on our way. Maybe this government won't be able to remove all the doubt, all the problems and all the flaws that exist in this sphere of our lives, as maybe no one else will. But the fact is that we have to go once, that we need to free the press and the journalism, give them a chance. There will be many dangers that we will avoid or that journalists and editorials will avoid. Which he won't, remains to be seen. Anyway, I'm really optimistic, but it's more important than being resilient. The government is persistent in efforts to solve many shortcomings and many problems, or at least to create a basis for solving these problems. Thank you for listening to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-30-0.u16740	Thank you, Mr. Koadinovic. I'm finishing the initial search. Once again, I'm reminded of two key information. Respecting the National Assembly, at the request of the president, the government and ministers withdrew six system laws, requiring the committees to consider them in detail. At the same time, thanks to the engagement and responsibility of all of you, and not only this European Rules of Procedure, 39 principle discussions have been completed at this time. Due to the importance of the law, pursuant to Article 85(4), the extension is Monday at 10.00 p.m., which begins by considering the first of the set of judicial laws in particular.
