ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21920	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radoslav Zdravkovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. THE year (with the 2006 Memorandum of Understanding, the 2007 and 2008 projections and the financial plans of the republican organisations) is the speech of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, who, at the end of yesterday's session, reported on the floor of the Rules of Procedure. Since he's not in the O.R., I'm asking if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of Members of Parliament, sent by MPs: SRS, DSS, G17 plus and New Serbia and MPs 9 plus 9. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic. Get Natasa Micic ready. You have your word, Mr. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be brief and concise, given that the minister at last night's exposé was very engrossed, detailed, and I would not want to insult your intelligence, nor our citizens watching us. However, when it comes to the draft budget law, it is clear that the opposition will always have counterarguments. Besides, it's her job. We're used to it. Any law to be found on the agenda, including this one, which is very detailed, very exhausted and, after a long time, we have a surplus of almost 40 billion. That's what he's saying in his own mind. I will try in the shortest lines to present some of my thoughts on this bill to you, or to the citizens. Keeping in mind the financial situation in the Republic in the previous period, bearing in mind the degree of responsibility and the overall state of society and economy, this 39.5 billion surplus is certainly the result of responsible work, primarily by the Government, or its ministries. Criticists will always find counterarguments, mostly those that are on flimsy feet, but the facts say otherwise. I'll just point to some facts. It is true that the majority of the population lives in Serbia, but it is a process that lasts at least two decades back. It is hardly someone who can have a magic wand and that, right in this term and right now and in just a year, he does some spectacular, epochal things, at least as far as improving the quality of life in Serbia. That's clear. However, the percentage of those who live safer is certainly increased, better. Of course, I don't mean those new-compromised rich guys, tycoon. Simply, I think of citizens whose environments or cities had successfully privatised, and it was privatized, as you could see in the bill, 316 companies and almost 280 billion euros of income, and that trend will continue, as we heard last night, and in 2006, when practically this process will be completed. Then, restructuring large systems, which is also one of the priorities, and on the other hand one of the very complex jobs and tasks, also contributed to improvement in certain environments. Significant credit investments, government subsidies, and ultimately, if you want the regularity of pensions, the return of the loan for the economic renaissance of Serbia, the old foreign savings, etc., that's all that started last year, practically by forming this new government. What's ours, I mean the ruling coalition, the pre-election promise, it's an investment in agriculture. It's one of the pre-election promises of all of us. You see, these investments, or subsidies on different grounds, have more than 10 billion. If I didn't repeat myself, I'd point to two or three things. First of all, these long-term agricultural development objectives have been defined to get close to the European Union, which is the goal of both Serbian citizens and, of course, to this government and all of us sitting in this home. These subsidies, measures to improve agriculture, i.e. different agricultural branches, very significant investment, include even addressing the problem of rural water supply, the construction of a sewerage network, the recovery of water streams, the construction of rural roads. I'm saying this because citizens will first understand us when we talk about these things, which make them the most of all. We know in what state villages are mostly located, and then we talk about the inflow of the city's population, or the pressures of the village's population on the city, etc., which is why the surrounding areas of Serbia are empty. One of these reasons is certainly what has not been defined and that the young population in the village was not motivated to stay and live in the village. Then, what is important is the incentive of tourism. That's what we've heard, too. It's especially important to us. I come from one of those tourist regions. First of all, as our people in Valjevo say, Divcibar really deserved to regain air spa status. It's literally money under the open sky, but if only it was just supposed to be some host, boss who would understand that and start investing, to bring back tourists and bring that region back to life on the basis of tourism. It is very useful that in the draft budget law, a significant part of the funds allocated to culture, as much as 130 million to support Serbian film. I've got to be a little ominous here. I would not like to see the minister in the main role, as it happened in the previous period, when the culture minister, Lecic, funded films, played in these films, but also by the way – she's a whole set, a clan that's now gathering in some new parties, etc. Of course, there are many young and unaffiliated actors who want their place under the sun. After all, this domestic audience of ours has fed up with more of these characters. We know who was the greatest hero, who killed the most Germans in a period of self-government socialism. Also, it's been happening in recent years, so then you can't make a film from White, which, etc. Also, I would like to take this 932m, which is planned for the programme and projects in culture according to the government's special decisions, to take advantage of the opportunity to recommend to the Ministry of Culture, or the Minister himself, that a significant part of these funds should be channelled into equipment, on any basis, by the Serbian Archives. If you had the opportunity, and I did, to visit these cultural institutions – from the Serbian Archives, to the Serbia-Montenegro Archives, the former Yugoslav Archives and, ultimately, to the inter-municipatory historical archive in Valjevo – it is indeed necessary for all these houses to help and investment means investment in their equipment. And we know that we passed the List and Recording Act this summer, and in that sense, we need to count on the archives to need significant help. I believe that this 1.5 billion item for RTS, that this is about those famous donations, or investments based on a TV subscription, one painful topic that we talked about, but that we were simply faced with. I guess that's the number, considering it's a significant, significant investment. Also, 40m for the reconstruction of the Serbian cinema network, of which only the Sremski Karlovci and Nis were apostrophe. Well, I would point to a very, very bad situation and a very bad situation. All these cinemas are suffering, crying for some investment by local self-government, which are mostly powerless, and many of us are sentimentalally bound to this magical space of cinema halls, when movies came, and perhaps after a certain break, which were spinning there around the world centers. But we know that nothing can replace that environment, no matter what video and DVD, what our kids are looking at and saying, as long as our technique is gone. That's why I'd like to welcome this item. As for the Ministry of Religion, this 150 million that was set aside for reconstruction and adaptation of religious objects, I just have to tell you that the Municipality of Valjevo, regardless of being located somewhere in the bottom of some parameters by which certain local self-governments are ranked, was more unique in 2005 for the reconstruction of religious objects than the entire Ministry of Faith, which did not have this intended item. Of course, this is where I calculate the infrastructure, i.e. the road, the waterway, the power grid, and not just religious objects. As far as education is concerned, I would end up, as far as those positive things in this budget are concerned, it is the Ministry of Science and Environment Protection, which also defines the means to scholarship the best high school students and students, and indeed that trend needs to continue, so that in any way we can show that we want to stop and keep that wit here in Serbia. What could have been better, and through some of the amendments that we have submitted, I mean New Serbia's MPs and independent MPs 9+9? Well, of course, that famous People's Office, which we were already talking about when we talked about the Civil Protection Act. You see, there is no cost specification in the entire draft budget, there is no particularly isolated National Office in Section 2 concerning the Institute of the President of the State. However, there is therefore, a little later (on page 120), in terms of funds for individual users. There is a great error, above all citizens, who believe that this National Office is something that can really solve their problems, on any basis. So, the citizens complain, but you saw in yesterday's press, or the day before yesterday, about 15,000 memos arrived and the cabinet of the Prime Minister. There are different complaints there, etc. What's this about? It's just, I wouldn't say it again, I was talking about it when we talked about the Civil Protection Act, we now have 30.8 million dinars in division 46, which is precisely about the existence and work of the citizens' protectors. With these resources, of course, it is possible for the protection of citizens to work, they will have their four deputies, and as we know by law, it is envisaged that local self-government, meaning municipalities, can exist, too. Ombudsmans. It's very important the powers that protect citizens, everything the National Office doesn't have. The National Office is not only a one-party service and soft to host party personnel DS – we watched that movie when we talked, remember, and about so-called. The government's office in the previous assembly, so where local self-government failed or where there was no DS resistance, the DS formed the so-called so-called. Government offices -- rather than now these offices are there again some gray eminences, therefore, Mr. Gilas and those walkers who walk around Serbia and, of course, spend our money. Therefore, the Ombudsman or civil protection officer also has the legal right to launch an initiative to recall officials who have wronged the rights of citizens. That's quite a reason. Here we can see how money is spent, on what basis, which we can't see in Section 2 concerning the president of the state. Furthermore, the rationalisation of the total number of employees in the authorities of the state administration. I have to admit that the minister here last night was not clear to me. I saw the table in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Does this mean that in 2006, labour restrictions in the state administration, or in the ministries, will not be carried out, since the quota was met in 2005. I'm not sure that's right, since if we look at other items, we'll see that from the budget, either in an indirect or direct way, another 186,547 employees are financed. Surely there is room for further reduction of public spending, which is a painful topic, which is why we are being pressured and why this budget is quite restrictive. Here I must point out a positive example of the Municipality of Valjevo, which from 2000 to 2005 instead of some 150 or 160 employees, how optimal the number, of course by different bases, has employed a double number. When you compare the Uzi with the King in terms of space or population, you now have a situation that the new municipal government has one unpleasant situation, because it is not easy for anyone to leave without a job, but it is necessary to rationalize and it is very successful and done. I see that only education, basic and middle, and 6,711 employees are foreseen, so I'm not sure, regardless of the three or four grounds offered to my colleagues in education, how will that go and how? It is good that there will be no working relationship without the government's consent and that the salary can only be increased to 9% in September, otherwise the transfer funds, which are well part of one of the very significant sources of funding for certain poor municipalities, will be suspended. In the end, I would end up, in section 13, where it's about funding the Ministry of Capital Investments, I have to remind the public, and of course all of us, that last year's budget rebalancing the biggest piece has just been cut off by the Ministry of Capital Investments, more than two billion dinars. However, the results are quite different, extremely successful Ministry, an extremely successful minister, which I must say, primarily because of those undosed attacks, because of those organised attacks that are being carried out daily on Minister Velimir Ilic. Just in the evening before every information show to release that report from Serbia, the Auto-Moto Alliance - Road status, and you will see that from Saturday to the cave or to the south of Serbia, Serbia has indeed turned into a construction site, at least as far as the roads are concerned. We know that the evaluations and the IMF are very favourable as regards the restructuring of these large public enterprises. We know the extraordinary pawnage of the ministry, thanks to whose resources are restored and certain religious facilities, even in my Valjevn end, the Lelic sanctuary, which will become believed in international frameworks in what some other religious shrines are, now not to list them, around the world. Then, hiring this ministry during those floods, etc. Just because the best results, from there were the most intense attacks, and especially as the New Serbia rating nears that famous figure, or 5%, then these conducting attacks were common, I suppose that this is also the job of the National Office and those similar services, mentors, para-state institutions, etc. In the end, if I didn't owe my Valjevs and the entire Kolubar County, I would really ask the minister, regardless of what he explained to us, why the budget was this fucked up, which is why the Kolubar District Directorate for Development and Elimination has again lost 300 million dollars? I say no 300 million, because last year we planned 500 million, so the rebalance was taken off to 200 million. In 2005, we had that 500 million, but the dynamics of the inflow of these funds were very bad, i.e. in this season of work when it was most needed, it was quite problematic at the time. Only 200 million were planned next year, which is unacceptable for several reasons. I'm going to try to explain this extensively, but just so you know, only in the Colubary County, in those six municipalities, there are still nearly 5,000 pending demands of citizens whose housing facilities are damaged by earthquakes. It's a long story why it wasn't done in 1998 and 1999, so in 2000 and so on, or to whom it was done, what abuses were they? The guilty Drina has never been corrected. I'm just saying that if this is the case, the state will go into one conscious risk that citizens will press charges, and that's also the commitment the state has made, practically contractual obligations with the citizens, and that's why I hope that through the consent of the Parliament club and here, as far as the amendments are concerned, we'll be able to sort out that item a little bit. I thank you, and if I have repeated myself somewhere, I apologize to both you and the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21922	National MP Natasa Micic is not here. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, and let Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, we have before us an income and expenditure plan for next year, which must be verified here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In one sentence, this budget can be described as restrictive and thriftful, as the austerity policy has no alternative, but on the other hand for the first time this year, Serbia in the history of modern finances is achieving a surplus in the budget of 39.6 billion dinars. This news in itself may not be so significant, but because of it, i.e. Because of the surplus, finally after ten years, our oldest citizens can count on a regular pension payment in the current month for the previous month, as well as the return of so-called. an old debt, and not in bonds, as originally planned, but in cash. As far as I understand it, the payout dynamics have already been established, so one quarter of the pensions of one and a half, to what total is due, would have arrived already with a regular November pension. The payment of the second war was planned for July 2006, and the payment of the total debt is due by 2008. For the first time in a decade, pensioners can safely count on regular payments – month after month and this country will repay them with a full debt, regardless of the deficit of their parent fund, which, unfortunately, amounts to as much as 84 billion dinars. At least for me it was the most important news and the most significant consequence of this budget surplus. The other, no less important consequences, are, above all, the payment of farm pensions which, as we know, have been delayed for 20.5 months. And it's an old inherited debt. The state is making every effort to ensure that both this category of population, and it is mainly about old and poor farmers' families and the huge deficit of their parent fund, as soon as possible and in the best way, to provide regular payments and to reduce the lagging debt. In November, agricultural pensions paid for October will be increased by 40% and that is, in fact, the one-time compensation for the already mentioned delay. Who else will benefit from the surplus? First of all, military employees, education and healthcare as a result of rationalization in these large budget users. The largest increase is expected in the area of health, where more than 7,000 people have unanimously left work in health institutions. Here, for the first time since 1945, the Health Fund has a surplus of about 10 billion dinars. Of course, the surplus will also be used to pay off the principal of domestic and external debt, with a significantly higher portion of domestic debt of around 40 billion dinars and an external amount of 6.4 billion dinars. The domestic debt, I recall, includes payments from old foreign savings, savings from Dafiment and Jugoscank Bank, as well as payments from the loan for Serbia's economic rebirth. When looking at the structure of the revenue and expenditure of this draft budget, it is clear that there is a new fiscal adjustment following, and we all know that too much of the social product is going to public spending and that it does not need to be reminded of us by the IMF, but anyone who has had an understanding and monitoring of the area of public finances is aware of these facts, as well as the need for public spending to be reduced through a number of concrete activities and cost cuts in the areas of the biggest budget beneficiaries. With the problem of public spending, the government met at the beginning of its mandate, as too high public spending existed before, but now for the first time managed to make significant cuts and reduce public spending by some 26 billion dinars, and in percentages it is 1.3 per cent of the social gross product. What contributes to this excessive public spending? These are, above all, social security funds deficits, i.e. deficits in pension and health fund. We will soon have a set of health care laws on the agenda of this session, as there has finally been a serious reform of this sector. As I have already said, the Ministry of Health has given consent to go along with stimulating severances, 7,140 of the reported 8,500 healthcare workers, and according to rough calculations, public spending is reduced by some 10 billion dinars. A further reduction in public spending is provided through reduced subsidies to social and public enterprises. This fact encourages me personally, as it is a clear indication that this government will not support the survival of companies using taxpayers' money to cover their losses. Here I agree with those who believe that large public enterprises are the main problem of the Serbian economy and that the solution to the problem depends on whether we will successfully end the transition by 2008, as planned. By the end of 2007, this type of budget support should be completely abolished, as all social firms should be privatised by then, and a year later the restructuring of large systems should be completed. There should be no budget incentives for exports already next year, as they are contrary to the World Trade Organisation rules, which are under way to negotiate accession in parallel with EU accession negotiations. And as far as we can see from this draft budget, subsidies are also reduced in the railways, also on the basis of the voluntary departure of extra employees, thus reducing the salary fund and opening up room for pay increases for those who remain to work. RTS subsidies are reduced, which will be financed in the future by subscription to electricity bills. For 2006, as we can see, a net reduction in the total military spending of 3.5 billion dinars was also planned, as the military also left about 7,000 people voluntarily, mainly at military service, which will allow the rest of the staff to finally get a salary increase, as irregularities are also removed in the number of civilian employees in the military. When we look at the revenues of the budget, we see that the biggest growth in income has been achieved by the VAT and about 40 per cent more compared to the revenues from the old sales tax of 2004. This shows that it is now clear to all that the introduction of VAT was the right move, which has contributed not only to the introduction of order and financial discipline, but also made a significant contribution to the overall increase in public revenues, from the moment it came into force. When we're talking about economic movements in 2005, I'd like to mention one bad and two good things, from a few of the good things that happened. The bad thing is the inflation rate, almost twice as high as planned, I'm not gonna talk about its causes. It's the business of financial monetary authorities. I will just say that, in such a textbook way, inflation depends on supply and demand, energy prices and monopolization, and that there are powerful monopoly centres in Serbia's economy, which are excluded from the functioning of market competition, and as long as there are, inflation will be higher than it would be to depend only on the ratio of demand factors and external factors. For next year, we see that the planned inflation is 9.3 percent, and I hope that this forecast is accurate this time. Of the positive things that happened, first, I would have singled out a reduction in the external trade deficit, which in the first nine months of this year was 3.3 billion euros, and 13% was lower than in the same period last year. Exports have grown significantly. This is the result of the changes made and of those now being conducted, as well as of foreign direct investments, which are expected to be at about two billion dollars this year. On the other hand, this resulted in an increase in the NBS foreign reserves, which is another positive thing I mentioned in 2005. The foreign exchange reserves are currently at about $5 billion and are sufficient to cover the five-month import. This time I won't talk about the IMF, there's the finance minister as head of the negotiating team, but I'll mention a few things that were the subject of speculation, which in the written media, which in the various shows we could watch. The first agreement was concluded in 2002, now it is the sixth final revision of the agreement. Various analysts, experts and well-informed citizens commented during the mission's stay in Belgrade and were told a lot of untrues, so the head of the mission had to come out and deny one, as the media called it, "experts" for banking, and I will remind you that this "expert" was dealt with by the recovery of the Dafiment Bank. That's where his "experience" comes from. He made his claim, said the IMF is demanding that the euro be worth 130 dinars in the future. That was answered by the Head of Mission that the policy of course should not suffer any major changes and thus most clearly deny it. It's just one example, and there were a lot of them, since in public finance we all understand each other. I want to say that I trust people who have been negotiating with the IMF since 2002, and I'm sure they'll end successfully. Let me finally mention another institution, which is the European Commission, which, in its annual report (which will be presented tomorrow in the Serbian Parliament, was published a few days ago), has just found that in the field of economic reforms in Serbia, the situation is stable, that much has been done, and that special praises deserve the very two things I mentioned, which are reduced external trade deficits and increased foreign exchange reserves. Finally, this is a kind of message to people who create and run the country's economic policy, and here is the finance minister who heads the team, which is that it must continue with responsible policy, comprehensive structural reforms, and even when it seems that there is not enough public support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21924	The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21925	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, what is positive in the draft of this budget law is the reduction of public spending by 1.3%. True, it was done under the pressure of the IMF and it would have been better if we had taken care of it this year if we hadn't had to put up with the pressures. But what's bad is that this budget has no character or reform or development budget. I would refer to a national MP who exhibited before me, who said that the success of a country is measured by foreign exchange reserves, and I think that the success of a government is measured by the growth of employment and the reduction of wealth. You see, in this draft budget, in the very explanation of the budget creator admits that there is absolutely no employment growth in this year compared to last year. That's bad. It's bad, because we have 890,067 unemployed. It's the whole army, the whole army. It's completely bad that now the budget is created as social and that the losers, the non-leading firms favor, and that we have so many unemployed. Well, we're all going to be losers and the number of unemployed is going to increase more and more. What's also bad and what's saying that this budget isn't reform, that's the fact that this public spending, that 1.3%, is being reduced precisely from education and health. It's a little strange for a country where there are 40% of functionally illiterate people, or 20% illiterate, that public spending is reduced to the back of education. It's absolutely abnormal for a country like us, especially considering that we only have 5% of the highly educated population. For example, other European Union countries, e.g. Finland has 60%. I think rationalization in education is the last method that can reform education. First of all, it is believed to exist, and there can be no extra staff in education when we already have so many illiterate ones. The surplus the minister sees may have shifted to work on adult education. I think that would be a good idea. It is also bad that in this draft budget, the government once again shows its fascination with the Ministry of Interior, BIA and the military. We so call for Euro-Atlantic integration, the Partnership for Peace and NATO, and in this budget, six billion increases the item for the MUP compared to last year. Then, as for the reduction in education, I would also like to say that, on the one hand, the number of educators is decreasing, and on the other hand, by over 50% compared to 2004 the number of government employees is increasing. Furthermore, the number of employees of the MUP is increasing, not 1,400 workers, according to the reasoning, but 2,600 compared to 2004. It's very bad for our country. On the one hand, we reduce for education, and on the other hand we increase the number of police officers. So we're turning into a police state. Is this our way to Europe? I don't think it's even wrong. In the end, I would just like to express my skepticism regarding this planned 9.3% inflation for 2006. For example, by 50% last year, the inflation was higher than planned, this year it will be twice as high, especially given the fact that an increase in expenditure is planned by 17%. I'm just being skeptical, and I don't think inflation is going to be the way you planned - 9.3%. All in all, I'm not voting for this budget. I'm saying, I'm glad it started to work to reduce public spending, but we need one reform, development budget, not one that, in fact, is not social, but false social.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21926	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS. Please report in future when the presidents and authorised representatives report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21927	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we heard the minister, even a few MPs. The minister liked to boast and say his budget was in surplus. He liked to say he had more money than the state needed, at least so he claims. By some definition, it is said that this is a surplus that makes us feel that we have more money than we really need. An ordinary citizen, who listens to these discussions, does not know that the debts created on some basis and which should be paid by certain means are called surpluses. That's the problem, it's some innovation that started with the 2005 budget rebalances, so it's still going on. So to show how monetary policy is successful, how the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing well, let's write that the items provided for paying off old loans are actually extra money. And that's that so much praised surplus? However, I would like to look back on the 2005 budget, which is in some sense the starting point for this budget. In 2005, we started with several laws that and as regards how to raise budgets and at all affect all economic flows in the country. Let's start from that year 2005, because the minister obviously wants to show himself here as a success, all that's good claims to be his credit, and all that's bad is that it's a higher power. So it's either another situation, or it's the world's international situation, whether it's God's fault that he's been late for years, etc. However, it is undeniable that he also has credit for bad things. The first and most important, even more important than that fake surplus, is inflation. Inflation has been said to have moved beyond the planned framework this year as a result of the high rise in the price of crude oil. So oil is to blame in the world – raw oil on the world market, increasing administratively regulated prices of products and services, especially at local level. So local self-government is guilty, municipalities, inflation growth and unusually late agricultural season. These are reasons why inflation is bigger than the minister planned. I think it would be fairer to say, as far as agriculture is concerned, that the value added tax is guilty of rising agricultural prices and nothing else. For the first time since there is a farmer in Serbia, the agricultural producer pays a re-promaterial tax, on seed goods, on storage goods, on plant protection, on another re-promatter needed in agriculture. It is quite normal for a farmer to need more money to process the same area, so there has been less treatment of areas due to the lack of such funds, which has affected price growth, and certainly in those agricultural prices, value added tax has been calculated. The minister says to justify himself to farmers, there will be more subsidies this year for agricultural producers. It must be acknowledged that the minister indicated in the draft budget slightly greater funds for agricultural producers. But the question arises – what agricultural producers? Agricultural producers that are registered: legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs? Why it insists that the subsidy in agriculture must only have these legal persons, only persons registered to carry out the agricultural activity. So to continue to drag the Serbian peasant's hand into his pocket – to sign up as an entrepreneur, not only to pay taxes on catastrian income as so far, but also to pay taxes on profits, income, etc. It seems that the minister and his colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, are not aware that 90% of the agricultural producers actually have four or five types of working surfaces and the question is at all the point in registering as an entrepreneur, because entrepreneurship for farmers is also withdrawing some other newspapers, such as business books, etc. So that's when it comes to agricultural production and why the prices of agricultural products have increased and affected inflation. It's not the late year, it's the tax policy of this government. When it comes to rising prices of crude oil, it is true that this trend has existed since 2003, since the start of the Iraq crisis. The first mistakes were made then, and the minister continued to make the same mistakes in 2004 as his previous counterpart Bozidar Djelic. It's a constant increase in oil excises and oil derivatives. In 2004, we had three increases and amendments to the Excise Act. There was a warning from this pay phone just from the SRS MPs not to do this, because there is a risk of an increase in the price of crude oil – we will disrupt whole cycles in Serbia's economy. No, it was important to fill the budget. Then we had some mitigation, but certainly because of the legislation already passed and applied, it couldn't have been more important to reduce the price of oil and petroleum products. In order to complete the picture, the local self-government is still to be blamed for inflation (later we will see it in article 19, what all finance ministers plan for local self-government), whose prices are the services provided by local self-government guilty of inflation. No one will ask, or the minister has asked a question, and has answered why local self-governments are increasing the prices of their services. The question arises why and who is responsible for this? Because the costs have increased? And the government of the Republic of Serbia is directly responsible for increasing these costs. In the first place because of an increase in electricity. What affects water prices the most? Electricity. What affects the price of utility services the most? The price of oil and oil derivatives. Who manages the price of oil and oil derivatives and electricity? The government of the Republic of Serbia. So she's responsible for increasing the cost of municipal services at local level, not local self-government itself. That's what the minister insists on saying. There is another fact in all this, which is that the first time Serbia has charged water tax. Now we have an item that every citizen who gets a water bill, writes in the account, first it was 20%, and then it was reduced to 8% to delivered drinking water. So, local self-government is to blame that according to the Law on Value Added Tax, it had to include the item – value added tax in its accounts. And then it's all her fault for the 15% inflation. The government of the Republic of Serbia is solely guilty, in any case and the Ministry of Finance, as well as Mladjan Dinkic, a reformer. Banks are said to be guilty of inflation, which is the course of the dinar. Business banks operating with the population are guilty of dinar liquidity, i.e. its constant decline in relation to the euro, growth in consumption, now watch out for it, and has given itself the right to influence business policies of business banks through the NBS, explaining that there is a terrible pressure on the money mass and the exchange rate of dinars. To the other hand, for the sake of his marketing, the minister said: that the foreign exchange reserves are $5 billion and cover 260% of the cash. Minister, why are they introducing bigger interest rates for citizens, why didn't you activate those foreign exchange reserves?- I'm sorry. Why didn't you cut the foreign reserve pressure on the cash mass? You've got cover, you say six months that we don't have a single dollar, not a single euro, we can import. Like that's very important. Who are you protecting, an import lobby or citizens of Serbia?- I'm sorry. You say 40% is more consumption in September than in August. Well, I don't know how that could surprise you and find you, Mr. Minister, it's something quite normal. What's being bought in September? It buys heat, it buys winters, kids get sent to school. Normally, a man would be able to use what he's been saving all year. What he made during the summer, working on two jobs, will then be spent, to secure his family. There's no big math here. Now the question is, why are you preventing citizens from raising loans and how do you get that information that the population can't get it back? I don't suppose the bank is half-witting to give a loan to someone before they can't assess their creditworthiness. That's the first thing he's looking for. He's checking his salary, you've made a good information system so someone can't be in charge of two or three banks without one bank knowing about it. So there's one loan control. I don't understand why you're putting pressure on banks to protect dinar and cash mass by increasing interest rates for citizens on short-term loans. So what's five billion dollars and 300 million dollars for, if not for those kind of interventions? Next, Mr. Minister, you say the pensioners owe 45 billion dinars. You say it's not a problem for these funds to be paid off, but there will be another increase in the money mass and there will be pressure on the money mass and on the rate of the dinar. Then why the foreign reserve? Here, 45 billion dinars, and that's about 550 million euros somewhere. You have a five-billion-dollar foreign reserve and 300 million dollars, and you're still asking why you don't activate it. You say, now I find the illogical thing, the debt of the Republic of Serbia has been increased because conditions have been created for its return. I guess debt increases when new debts are taken, and maybe you've provided for bigger funds to pay back some old debts. But now the question is, what kind of debt do you mean? There's something else. When it comes to the surplus, what it looks like and where the funds will be channelled this year and it is said and claimed that many have attacked and feared the debt crisis. Serbia does not have to fear, there is Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic to save her from it. Let's see how that surplus is going to be used, except for that part about paying off old debts. And we're going back to that, Mr. Minister. Article 5 says - guarantees and counterguarantees of the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to 43,150,719,510,00 dinars in 2006. How about we see who's about to be betrayed? First of all, who's gonna give credit? 1. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of four loans totalling 14 billion dinars; (a) the JP "The Railways of Serbia" for a 5,603,740,800 dinar reconstruction project. I ask the question of the Minister – will these counterguarantees be given to those famous locomotives that were purchased under the Public Procurement Act. I would really ask myself and ask you, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how can you sit in the same cabinet with a minister who says that the Public Procurement Act is not good and that it should not be applied? b) Directorate for Roads and Construction of Corridor 10 Dobanovci-Bubanj Potok of 5.136.000,000; v) JP PTT billion dinars; g) small municipalities for counter-guarantee etc. 2. To the European Investment Bank on the basis of five loans totalling 18,400,000 dinars, i.e.: a) Directorate for Roads for the Construction of Corridors10 Dobanovci-Bubanj Potok; again, b) Directorate for Roads for the Rehabilitation of Bridges of 2,054,000 etc. I am interested in how much funds will be used to resuscitate bridges on the Subotica-Belgrade highway, especially since it is known that the minister of capital investment has a terrible desire to give the corridor under concessions. So we will be in charge, that the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee, and one of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will give concessions to those funds. I don't want to read any further, to the Government of France for loans to cities etc. So one part of the surplus is already defined. It will be on the Republic of Serbia's budget, as set out in paragraph -- to provide guarantees and will have to stand there until those funds are paid off. Furthermore, the issue of Serbia's debt on August 31st and says it is 796-800 billion dinars and envisions some dynamic payment of those funds. Now, Mr. Minister, I have one question to ask, what about these famous banks in Cyprus? What happened to the money that was in those banks? Where are those funds from those banks? Apparently, someone stole state money, transferred them to Cyprus! Now there are no more banks, no more money, and you saw there, you were there, you were investigating there, Vladan Batic claims the money was found! Your current colleague in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Velja Ilic, also claims, claimed that the money was found. The question arises where is this $4 - 4.5 billion. Where did that money end? There's a lot of talk going on that they ended up on some islands, Seishel, Cayman, in some oceans where there were no tsunamis, etc.?- I'm sorry. What about that money, Mr. Minister? I think you have to answer to the MPs here, is it true that someone stole that money during the government before October 5th, or if someone stole it after October 5th to say who stole it? It's impossible that you've been campaigning for so long, and all the expertise you have directed at banks in Cyprus. So, you come to power: you go there in inspection, you're there for a few months, and all of a sudden -- there's nothing, it stops that story?- I'm sorry. Where are those bags that were put on the plane, with dollars, stamps, etc.? Next, Mr. Minister, you keep going on one piece, and you say monetary policy must remain firm. And how well I remember the end of '90. For years, when you showed up as an expert on G17, just that part, monetary policy must be firm, you were the most critical of every other government that was at that moment. Now that you've criticised back then, you're now conducting as some kind of policy of the Ministry and Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21928	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21929	Some questions have been raised here, which are obviously the result of a lack of understanding of economic policy. Of course, we've given more money for agriculture. As you know, three times the agrarian budget is higher than it was before our government was formed. This time significant funds, other than subsidies, which remained in agriculture, go both for agricultural investments and for the purchase of new equipment for refrigerators, for droughts, so 5.5 billion dinars go for these purposes. Of course, these funds can only be used by registered agricultural producers, since they have declared themselves to be agricultural, to be their basic activity, they have reported exactly what they do, which cultures they cultivate, whether they deal with livestock, warning or any other activity. All the organized countries encourage only those farmers who are registered. There are currently 120,000 such agricultural producers, which means it's not a small number. Our policy will be to continue to encourage, precisely, only registered agricultural producers, and those who do not want to register, have the right to choose, no one will force them to do so, but they will not be able to use stimulating measures. What we did resulted in Serbia having a surplus in food exports again. We had a food-export deficit until this government came. In the past few years, we've imported more food than we've exported. Now we have a surplus in food exports and a good part is the result of an increase in productivity in agriculture. Productivity is increased because more modern measures are being used, because more modern equipment is being used. Of course, it's not enough and it has to continue in the future. That's why we're increasing our investments in agriculture. However, what I have repeated several times in these two years from this pay phone, and I cannot explain to some MPs, is what foreign exchange reserves are for. The country's foreign exchange reserves serve only one objective – maintaining the stability of the domestic currency and interventions in the event of a deterioration of the balance of payments. If you see how the dinar course has been moving this year, the course has devalued only 7%, precisely because of the way inflation pressures are braked. It is clear that foreign reserves guarantee that the money will be stable in the next period. If we remember what happened in 1990 -- former SFRY foreign reserves at one point amounted to about $10 billion. It was during the government of Ante Markovic. So, about 10 comas some billion dollars were ex-SFRJ foreign reserves. When the state started to fall apart, they began to melt, and then the government listed those foreign reserves and made the largest hyperinflation in mankind's history, which reached 300 million per cent in January 1994. It lasted two years. The reason there was hyperinflation is because some wise men came up with the idea of putting foreign reserves into consumption function, exactly what you just said. With such a wise policy in two years, that 10 billion was spent. The reserves fell to zero, and the people got three marks' salaries, hyperinflation, shortages, power shortages and everything else. So, never as long as I'm working with my team, and here for five years I've been participating in reforms in Serbia, no one serious, not just me, will allow foreign reserves to be spent beyond standard rules and procedures for which foreign reserves are served. Have you ever wondered why foreign reserves are called reserves? Why aren't they called virgin consumption? The reserves are called because they're being guarded, and they're being saved to keep you long-term stability of the dinars. What's a fact, is that the Central Bank, right now, has bigger foreign reserves than it used to be 15 years ago had by the SFRY Central Bank. If you look at how much Serbia participates in the entire former Yugoslavia, this is a greater relative stake than before. However, the fact is that the Central Bank no longer needs to withdraw new loans. It is a strategy for the future period. The central bank will no longer withdraw new loans from the IMF from next year, since this level of foreign reserves provides full security for the dinar course in the coming medium and long term. So with this 260% cash mass coverage, Serbia has better performances than countries that have so-called countries. currency board regimes, i.e. board withdrawals. In this regard, for the next few years, it will be used to fully repay the $900m IMF loan, while at the same time taking into account the expected new inflow of foreign direct investment, foreign reserves not only will not fall, but will continue to grow. So, the central bank will fully settle all its debts and the foreign reserves will remain unchanged. However, if someone had taken these foreign reserves to share with the citizens now, then you would have a seemingly positive effect on the short term, people would be happy, as they were happy at the beginning of 1992 when there was a slightly higher consumption, but then inflation took hold and all they got ate them within a very short time. So monetary and fiscal policies, however, are things to be learned and trained for them. I'm proud of what I really did. If someone thinks that foreign reserves should be spent, then they tell the people – I want to cause hyperinflation. The only way to keep you safe is to keep your foreign reserve. I know it seems strange to the common people, why keep it, why don't you let the people spend it, but if you spend it, the state doesn't have the mechanisms to keep the people from inflation, and inflation is the worst enemy, I mean hyperinflation -- everyone. What you set out as next is a matter of guarantee and counterguarantee. It is true that the provision of guarantees and counter-guarantees is foreseen, of which, of course, this assembly must be declared and, among other things, ZTP, Železnica, given that the construction of railways is planned, as well as the purchase of freight wagons, since at the moment a significant number of freight wagons is missing, given that Serbia's trade with abroad has increased and that the railway needs to be modernised. Railways in all countries cannot be found only from their own incomes, but is subsidized by the state and our view is that railways, as a public enterprise, should be modernised and more modern equipment should be obtained. Therefore, we will propose to this assembly that guarantees and counter-guarantees be issued for the purchase of adequate equipment and for the modernisation of railways, first and foremost, at Corridor 10 in the coming year of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, when we talk about this issue of yours regarding locomotives, as you have been informed from the public, here is a direct opportunity for me to inform you, we have sent a budget inspection into the Railways of Serbia and the results of the findings of that inspection will, as always, be notified. As for the Public Procurement Act, I will be the second minister to say that the current Law is not the best and that we have prepared changes to the Public Procurement Act. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: but not applicable.) You are right, the existing law must be applied until the new one is adopted. So, unfortunately, the Public Procurement Act brought by the previous government, we modified it, was made according to the Slovenian model. It was one of the few laws the Slovenians passed, which was bad. It was prescribed by Slovenians when it was delivered in 2003, in the best interest. However, the Slovenians also admitted that their law was bad and in the meantime they changed it, so we left that Slovenian law. We have been working half a year to amend the Public Procurement Act to bring it into line with positive examples in the EU. Now the law on reading is with the European Commission. So we want the EU to give us the green light and we expect it in the first quarter of next year to be in the assembly procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21930	You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure? The replica is requested by your colleague, will you give him the championship? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21931	Don't scare the people. Mr. Minister, for one thing, you mentioned in 1992, I'm glad you got involved a little bit, but there's only your participation, not directly in that year, but in the middle of it all. That's when the $10 billion, as you mention it, most of it was taken by the Ljubljanska Banka. I'm just saying pickles, steals, whatever you want, Slovenians, and we're left with dinars. It's one of the reasons for hyperinflation. It's not your fault. But, Mr. Minister, you and the Slovenians shared our foreign exchange reserves, you shared our gold with the Slovenians, brotherly, you admitted the succession instead of secession, the violent secession, the kidnapping of the foreign reserves of the citizens of this Republic, you gave the Slovenians you admitted to them that the Ljubljanska banka had that right. Who's to blame for that now? You say it wasn't, the value of gold is lost. So what, she's getting lost in one piece, but now we have a commitment, now we have trouble having both Slovenia and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina sue for war damage, and they were secessionists. That's what you're responsible for, Mr. Minister. Next, you say – what foreign reserves are for, exactly what you're talking about, why you haven't intervened. You've intervened on the people, on the hunches! Then what are they for? Not for consumption, for intervention to stabilize some part of the market. All right, in September, there was an increase in consumption, but we're not gonna kill people because they buy more. He buys because he needs it, buys what he has to: food, heat, clothes. He doesn't buy anything else. He doesn't buy houses, villas and apartments, he buys them, and interest increases on them. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, when it comes to this story about agricultural producers – you say 120,000 registered agricultural producers – and what about those who have not registered, where the average of households is over 55 and 60 years, what are you going to do – kill them?- I'm sorry. They shouldn't live. You're talking about subsidies, or who's entitled to subsidies? Subsidies are entitled only to registered households. You didn't even give those nursing homes the right to have a milk subsidy, for breeding heifers, one or two. Those subsidies have been lifted and you say, "It has to be registered." But where a man of 65 or 70 is to be registered; his child is in the white world; he cannot feed himself, but he still has to touch him; so you register him as a taxpayer. So you're still saying the right choice. How can you not be ashamed? If you have already introduced that a farmer has to register to achieve some subsidy, why didn't you give him the right to choose whether to pay pension or not for agricultural pensions, but also to make it a choice, if we're already talking about choice, but not this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21932	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21933	Just for a little while, as far as agriculture is concerned, you probably didn't listen well and hear the explanation of the agricultural development strategy. Namely, all households in Serbia will be divided according to a new strategy, adopted by the government in the middle of this year on the so-called. productive households, the ones that work, and the ones that you call nursing homes, where they are not physically capable of doing it. As far as productive households are concerned, it will be encouraged beyond these incentive measures and it, of course, must be registered. They are intended for loans for the purchase of machinery and other goods. As regards households that are non-productive, for age or other reasons, they will receive direct payments from the budget, unrelated to whether or not they are registered. It will be an income subsidy and it is a practice in the EU. Most of the funds that we will withdraw from the EU will be allocated to agriculture. The funds are going to be shared as stimulating, these are these assets that we already have, with it being increased, and those households that don't need a tractor, because they're old, they're going to get direct money, like some kind of direct help on their income. As for bank interest, our assessment is that in Serbia, firstly, there is great competition among banks, and secondly, margins are very high and their profits are high. An increase in the minimum reserve rate does not mean that the interest rates for citizens will be increased. Why? Because banks simply, in order to survive on the market, will have to offer loans to the population at the same interest rates, because some banks, which are stronger, will go at lower rates, and these others will have to follow through the increase in the minimum reserve rate, we are literally holding back foreign funds in the country for lending. Therefore, the mandatory reserve is imposed on external loans to business banks. That's what we're holding back, which means we want the banks to spread as long as they are, as long as we can handle being so credited. Because the fact is this, I've already mentioned it: when you have someone who has a need, of course, here you are a parent, let's say, you can't help but forbid your child to do something, not do something, which he wants. The children want to achieve everything alive, but someone has to tell them – you can do this, and you can do this when you grow up. It's the same with our situation. Imagine now that we allow the population to be so in debt for a year to buy everything, and tomorrow there's no money and the banks are exorcising them from their apartments, the banks are charging them with such wars. The next government would have problems. Our government wouldn't have a problem if we let go of it now. Come on, folks, put yourself in as much trouble as you want. But how are you gonna get back tomorrow? You should be in some way grateful to this government that takes care and is responsible for the future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21934	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21935	Mr. Chairman, you must somehow order and ban an offensive statement from the finance minister. His offensive exposure is based on several facts. First, what he knows to turn, not to answer the question he's asked here, but to open up another topic. And we have a few key moments in that gala: first, the minister tells us he hasn't read the reports. I'm just going to give you a few places and a few addresses where there are reports of something that's already been widely known to be a fact. It's a question of how there was, at that time large foreign exchange reserves, $10.8 billion, when the total foreign debt of the SFRY was $17 billion, during Ante Markovic, so the IMF, whose interests you represent here, forced him to break up those foreign reserves. How did the foreign reserve break up? There was a predecessor in the form of "Agro-Comer" and a system of bonds without cover. Furthermore, Ambrozini Bank and the branch office of the Ljubljana Bank in New York, headed by Lawrence Iglberger, former US Ambassador to the SFRY, have been torn apart. Remember the affair over the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka savings? You too, from the beginning of the 1990s, in 1989 and 1990, about the level of foreign reserves, are transferring to January 1994, and you have come out to answer the question of where the money is from Cyprus. Look what this manipulation is all about. Next, it's called rail modernisation. Just a reminder: You were in power when Djindjic signed a 1,000-car contract to take off to Brazil. What's with all the dead people? It's the year 2005 when we import labour, and you're telling us now that the number of employees is down. Answer the question, what about those locomotives of your friend Korać, which had to be remounted in Zagreb, in the factory "Rade Končar"? There they are, they can't go! These are your economic reforms. Don't turn the facts around. If you don't know of any fact, say it - I don't know. You just went out to talk about the Public Procurement Act. So you praised him, and you copied him with Djelic, and you even misrepresented the copying of two members. (I can't tell you the exact number, I have a record there. ) Then you boasted that it was modern, European, and now it says – oh, wow, that's the worst Slovenian law. The dots don't count, but they're gone. That's when it happened, and now it doesn't work?- I'm sorry. Please, take care, appreciate the dignity and memory of Serbian citizens. It's probably someone following this transmission, so it grabs his head when he hears some of the things you say, which are totally different from what you said in 2000-2001, etc. Don't, just focus your discussion on what the budget items are, let's talk about it for a little bit. Give some lectures on foreign reserves. What do you know about foreign exchange reserves? You don't hold foreign reserve due to currency stability. You're holding foreign reserve due to the IMF. You still come out here and talk to us - no more borrowing. How dare you say that? With the World Bank system, all states must always be in a little debt. You saw the example of Ceausescu, when he was separated, they killed him and destroyed his country. Don't insult the dignity of these MPs, I suppose there are MPs who know something. Unlike you, they read the reports, they follow what happens. You go out here and -- turkey dots don't work. Let me remind you: the contract is closed, Brazil needs 1,000 cars to be exported, and now you come out and say we're importing cars. So you destroyed that part of our industry. There's no more. We don't make cars. Now, come on, make a list. What else is it that needs to be destroyed? You are the exponents of the IMF policy. Wherever the IMF gets into that country, it's gone. First the IMF, then the American boot. It's our way with you!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21936	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS. The squirrel Radeta, she's throwing her way out of town. ) You were the first to insist on it, however, exists under the Rules of Procedure. (Miss Radeta, from the post: Which member? ) Rule 93, read, distract, indeed, those 'for' and 'against', and I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say that this previous debate was interesting, but to conclude that Mr. Minister's presentation of yesterday presented a lot of data, which otherwise has this draft budget, which gives optimists the right to support the budget and to see what is good in the budget, and yet give pessimists the right to criticise that budget. I don't think that the budget, as proposed, should qualify as neither good nor bad, but as real. Why do I think that? First of all, Mr. Minister said this, and this is in a series of explanations of all budget items, that the main objective of this budget and economic policy to be led in 2006 is this macroeconomic stability; bringing inflation from the current 15 per cent or 16 per cent to an acceptable 9.3 per cent, the growth of the social product of 5 per cent in 2006 and, most importantly, the reduction of public spending by 1.3 per cent compared to 2005. As I understand from all these talks and discussions, one single IMF request, which concerns the overall financing in the Republic of Serbia, is that public spending in Serbia has been reduced by 1.3%. Even if he is not there, without such a request from the IMF, I think everyone in this country, who is seriously considering economic growth, would have to come to the realization that public spending must inevitably be reduced for many reasons. That is why what Mr. Minister announced at the end of yesterday's debate is very important to me, which is that the overall, i.e. as the ultimate result of this policy, which will take place in 2006, will be to create opportunities for further redundancies of the economy. So, profit taxes should be reduced from the current 14 per cent by a percentage of two, maybe even four, to 10, and that, eventually, it goes to a reduction in individual contributions, let's say when it comes to health contributions, and above all as a result of the rationalisation of health care rather than as a means of reducing the general level of health care of our citizens in Serbia. Whoever wants to talk about hiring this army of unemployed, about a million people currently on the employment record, he simply needs to see the chance of those millions of people getting a job one day. Why? Because such a reduction and strict implementation of the items in this budget would indeed result in a reduction in public spending, and thus in the cost of opening each job. If the total commitments from the current 73 per cent fall to 65 or 66 acceptable at the moment, then Serbia will certainly become much more attractive to invest both domestic and foreign capital in the creation of new jobs. This immediately entails a very positive consequence behind it, collecting larger amounts of contributions in all social security funds, starting with pension, through health care and all other items contained in this budget and having treatment or category so-called. Social benefits. I see here that, in the 2006 budget projection, about 48 billion dinars are planned for this very category of social contributions, and it will be given from different sections: from the Ministry of Finance, but above all from the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. In this place, it is also important to remind the need for the pension fund, primarily those work-based insurance companies, to be increasingly funded from the budget in the future, and more and more from the contribution. The only way to really achieve this is to increase employment and increase the pension fund's income on the basis of contributions that employees will pay. This, of course, also applies to the insurance fund based on agricultural interests, i.e. pensioners based on agricultural activities. In this fund, we have a very big problem which is likely to be addressed in the short term with some budget incentives and incentives, but in the long run we will still have a similar problem. I remind you, the pension fund is currently financed from a budget of around 89, even 90 per cent, and only 10 per cent of the required income of the farmer's pension fund, in order to pay off pensions, is achieved through the collection of contributions based on the insurance of farmers for farmers' pensions. At this point, the state must make all the measures necessary to ensure that the payment of contributions to farmers based on pensions is not a burden, but a simple investment in the future. I don't know what to do at this point, but I'm pretty sure that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and all the other ministries have to do everything we can to make the peasants agree to pay their contributions, primarily for the sake of that own benefit. Speaking of pensions, then here I have to, for the sake of the public, point out the fact that there is still an increase in pension funds. One part is paid out of the Ministry of Finance's division, and the other part is paid out of the ministry's division of labour, social policy and employment. The total income of the pension fund, based on work, or pension fund based on labour workers, is about 84 billion dinars. They are up by five million in absolute terms compared to last year, and 6.2 percent in relative amount. The participation of pension funds based on work contributes to about 34 comas something and the tendency is to reduce this participation in the future. How? Only increased contributions, but not by increasing contributions, as this would increase the burden of earnings would reduce the attractiveness to create new jobs, rather than by increasing the number of employees. The number of employees cannot be increased without investments, foreign and domestic. We here have to create such an environment for these foreign investments to come. I have to say that I was quite skeptical when the minister at the end of last year explained the 2005 budget and when he expressed optimism in the sense that we would have increased foreign investments, that we would achieve a budget surplus, etc. After all this has happened, today I have no reason to doubt Mr. Secretary's prognosis, because he proved to be right. It probably went hand in hand and the fact that on the basis of privatisation in 2005, instead of the planned 25 billion, we achieved 38 billion. In 2006, as far as I understand it, 30 billion dinars are planned based on privatisation, and most likely in 2006 we will be able to achieve extra funds from privatisation, probably up to 45 billion dinars, which will create conditions for some budget expenditures and expenditures to be covered to a much greater extent than is planned in this budget or to be allocated so-called. The reserve, it's a precaution to settle the government debt obligations. When I look at the structure of the debt, in a way, I see something others may not see, but I see one positive movement of things, because the total debt has not increased in the meantime and it is currently 823 billion. Of that, 796 billion in foreign currency. It is a somewhat risky category, because you are at risk of some growth in the euro or other currencies in which we are in charge. This may increase the dinar debt in some nominal amount, if these price growth parameters are not realised or realised up to 9.3% on an annual basis. When I look at the structure of that debt in the foreign exchange sign, as it is said in the jargon, then I see that of those 796 billion, 295 billion based on old foreign exchange savings, and those 500 billion is due to other creditors, including the Paris Club, the London Club, the loan for the economic rebirth of Serbia, the debt to Italy, Switzerland, France, Poland and some other countries. And when it pays for that part of the old foreign currency, it's comforting that that money will stay in Serbia and not stay out anywhere. Those who come to this money on the basis of old foreign savings will have several alternatives, among other things, to start this money a small private business, to start small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be the additional initial capital for the development of this particular sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. When you look at the expenditures planned in the budget, here I just want to remind those who understand about finance that expenditure and expenditure are not the same. There's no discrepancies. Total expenditure is 448 billion, but total expenditure is 425 billion. Why? Because also the purchase of non-financial equipment, the construction of construction facilities, etc., which is financed from the budget, is expenditure from the budget, but is not consumption. That's why I'm giving the Minister's right that this is exactly the point in the budget and that we're going to significantly increase these funds in this year's so-called. investment, that something that may be most positive in this part of the budget, because just through investment, I just said it, we're opening up the possibility of building new small, medium or large capacities and hiring a new workforce. As you know, I'm a socialist and I always take care of those social categories. The reality requires me to say that this budget is real, because I have assurances, when I look at all these items, that even the level of health care in Serbia will not be reduced, although we will have less separation from the health care budget. Let's talk about some things here. The state of Serbia guarantees health care to all citizens and all citizens will be provided in any way, i.e. they will be able to use health care, but not all citizens are necessarily insured. It is mandatory to ensure that those working in certain enterprises, which have pensioner status or other status, for which contributions to health insurance are paid. In the category of those health insurance companies that are not necessarily insured, there are currently around 850,000 people. As a rule, these are those on the National Employment Service's record, for which there is no one to pay a contribution, because there are others for whom contributions are paid, because they are temporarily on the National Employment Service's record and receive adequate fees. When they receive adequate fees, they are paid and contributed on their basis. For pensioners, on the basis of work, the pension fund is paid into a health fund, i.e. the Institute of Health, the corresponding amounts. If you noticed, it's 24 billion dinars from the Pension Fund for the Health Fund, i.e. the Health Insurance Office. Also, from the pension fund of farmers, etc. In this place, I would like to remind you that, precisely thanks to the SPS and its very energetic requirement not to touch pensioners' rights that would endanger pensioners' existence, I am talking about pension laws, about a set of these laws, the average pension has come to a minimum of 25% compared to average earnings. It is from this section of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is why you have an additional and large investment in the pension fund of farmers, and as a result, I have witnessed these days that many are already receiving some increased pensions, an increase in the average pensions paid based on agriculture will be around 60%. I also remind you that for the first eight months in Serbia, average earnings were paid in some amount of 12,668 dinars, and that the average pension for the first eight months was around 10,900 dinars. The provision that pensions cannot be reduced below 60% allowed pensioners to be protected at the moment. It is in the short term and refers only to the period until 2008, but in 2008, it is the year that will be after the elections, so those who go to the elections should vote for themselves, first of all, let them think about those who will protect them in the future. In any case, those who vote should vote, first of all, for themselves. Now a few things I can't accept to the end as it is written here. For example, the provision is that we will have to reduce export subsidies and that it is contrary to the rules of the World Trade Organisation, drinks water, but only somewhat. Why? Because a World Trade Organisation meeting was held in Uruguay as early as 1986, and they agreed to gradually reduce subsidies for export-oriented economy. We now have a commitment to fully abolish export-oriented subsidies this year. If there were no other provisions, which is to increase the funding for the Agency's financing and export insurance of 1.5 billion dinars, and I have no idea that this year's capital will increase from the current 10m euros to 25m euros, thereby increasing the possibility of financing and export insurance, then it would be explicitly against the story of reducing subsidies in the export-oriented economy. To be honest, I didn't know about this data, and I have no reason to doubt that this agricultural production and the area of nutrition have achieved a significant surplus in the foreign trade, and for us, 200 million dollars, as much as it is mentioned here. Therefore, those previous subsidies and previous incentives for the development of agricultural production are starting to produce results. That is why it is fully justified that these funds are not that they are not reduced, but even something is increased in that area of agriculture. No one should fear the peasants, will continue to be a milk subsidy, will be a wheat subsidy, for the storage of wheat and for all stimulating activities for the growth of agricultural production. Maybe it could be a bigger position around the measure to improve the village and action, but it's just some reality that we have here. As part of the Ministry of Economy, we have a significant reduction in economic subsidies from about four billion 600 million to three billion 850 million. I'd like to express an opponent of this position, although I'm a little bit in the dilemma of whether it's justified, because subsidies are mostly the means that are directed at enterprises that are being restructured. But since there is a plan to speed up privatisation in 2006 and since there are some other means such as loans, i.e. microcredits for employment of a billion dinars, and such as funds for so-called funds. Regional development of one billion and for the purchase of machines and equipment of 900 million, then compensates in some way for reduced subsidies and allows the economy to get what it essentially belongs to in 2006. Above all, in the function of developing production, reviving those who have stopped working and creating conditions to become both attractive to foreign and domestic investors in the privatisation process. Of course, it is a good thing to encourage housing policy, that is, building and buying apartments. There is an increase in funds to two billion 800 million dinars, but it is important to endure what the minister said, that housing interest should not exceed those 4.5% agreed on on on an annual basis. We have now had the situation that business banks approve loans to citizens on a variety of grounds, as a rule of consumer credit, but when interest is collected, fees and credit processing costs, then there is frantic data that the interest is at an annual level even about 20%, and that the citizens who used these funds did not even know. When the citizens with that money showed up on the market, we had this unnatural situation that we grew to 40% without a cover in production. It is understood that inflationary pressure is being done, and that is one of the reasons why inflation has crossed those 15% in the tenth month and why it does not fit into the basic definitions of macroeconomic policy. The increase in mandatory reserves by banks to this type of credit is entirely justified, but I fear we should not be wrong to place in the same basket small and medium-sized enterprises and all who will, in order to run agricultural production, come to the conclusion that eventually banks face an increase in mandatory reserves and interest, because this would be a cost of production, impact on costs and inflationary pressure. Therefore, the law on banks will probably be an interesting area in which some measures are envisaged in this respect, although not explicitly and not specifically within the law itself, but in the powers of the NBS, in that part, it is certain that we will be able to reach all these measures. Just one more sentence, in 2003, total public spending took part in the gross social product with 44.3%, in 2005 it will be 41.8%, in 2006 40.8%, and in 2008 38.5%. That's what's important, because it's now part of the story that we're going to have new investments, the opening of new jobs because that job price is going to fall significantly. When it comes to health care, just for fear breaking, I want to say some data, and that: health in the gross social product in 1998 participated from 6.6%, and in 2005, it participated from 6.6%, but the gross social product in 2005 was projected at 1,600 billion, and in 2006, at 1,839 billion and these are incomparable categories. I think the retention of this amount, the percentage of participation in the gross social product, allows us to have no difficulties in health care, but we need to carry out these rationalizations because everyone is reasonable in doing what is in his interest, which means that it reduces unnecessary costs, but not at the expense of medicines and health care quality levels, but at the expense of those costs that occur as irrational in all these funds, in the state administration, etc. All in all, as a SPS in the coming week, we will have sessions of our organs, our relationship with the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica has not changed, my proposal will be to accept this budget with little corrections on some items.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21938	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21939	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 104, paragraph 1 - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. That means they're telling the truth. Since there's already some data going around here, some successes, especially related to paying off old foreign savings, I'd like to ask you not to wave with your old foreign currency savings anymore because that payout is a fat robbery of those who have old foreign savings. They were in an accident to have foreign exchanges in banks that Minister Dinkic cut and now they're getting paid you'll see how. A letter from Mr. Bogdan Stokuća, a radio man in Libya, came to the SRS Parliament club, not to read the whole letter, earned some money, stood up to him in Beabaca. It is not Dinkic's fault that it was declared an old foreign exchange savings, which was not paid back then. The total value of his assets in Beobanca was 13.633 euros. Beobank shut down, decided that the government would pay off the old foreign currency savings for what belonged to them. If we consider that in 31.1.2003, the orientation euro was around 70 dinars, its total value was 956,431 dinar. He was paid 295,950,72 dinars at the National Savings Bank and was total stolen by the state for 660,480,28 dinars. So much for the old foreign exchange savings, so much for how much it brings back everything that the citizens have invested in these banks. You can talk, ladies and gentlemen, you from the ruling coalition about everything, but don't talk about the old foreign currency savings. Whoever planted the pumpkin with the devil, you can see them banging on his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21940	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Natasha Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21941	I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 99 and 100, relating to the dignity of the Assembly. I think one of the most important issues of every country, including ours, is the matter of budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21942	Mrs. Micic, it's according to the old Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21943	Dignity of the Assembly, I think he's a member of 100 or 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21944	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21945	In any case, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured since neither the prime minister nor the members of the government are present. I would remind you that every time the prime minister came here, we are not worthy here for a single budget until now to address us as prime minister. It is not surprising, therefore, that every minister has his own feud. Yesterday I voted against the Police Act because the police minister is being given too much authority, and today I say here for this speaker that this budget is the result of an unhealthy ambition of the finance minister, which is expressed by the fact that more than 50% of the state's costs, namely 257 billion, are in the hands of a man, the finance minister. He decides on redistributing these funds, which also opens up a great opportunity for corruption. So even next 2006 in this country, the invisible hand of the free market will not dictate the conditions and development in this country, but an iron hand or an extended arm, it may be, the finance minister. So I repeat, this budget is neither reform nor developmental. It does not create conditions for increasing employment, for reducing poverty, and plus opens up the possibility of corruption. An additional piece of information is that the finance ministry this year increased funds for the three billion reserves compared to the last year. I'm asking the finance minister, let's say, which is why it's meant to be that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21946	Thank you, Mrs. Micic. The government has appointed Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic as its representative in the law. You, if you're not satisfied, I don't know what I can explain to you, so you can ask the Assembly to come forward in the voting day. The assembly will plead. The word has a finance minister, Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21947	I really can't be surprised, I can hear everything, but really when ignorance is demonstrated, it's something that pisses me off the most. The finance ministry in its division always has the most funding, because all the transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations are at hand. The transfer of 110 billion to the pension fund, the National Employment Service, the PIO Agricultural Fund and other organisations, is not the means available to the Ministry of Finance. The assembly decides to transfer 110 billion to cover these deficits and that is not the newspaper introduced by the government. You may not have read the budgets from 2000 to 2004, in all budgets the same situation. When you look at, in fact, what is the real budget of the Ministry of Finance, it's just the budget of the salaries of those who work at the Ministry of Finance, plus the budget of customs and tax administration. As far as the Treasury is concerned, it's all financed from its own income. I'm really experiencing that in this country for everything and everything, but that the Ministry of Finance has 200 and something billion, it's just amazing that someone can say at all. These are not the money that we have, these are the funds that the Assembly approves for covering the pension fund deficits and others. I don't have any discretionary right to distribute those funds. The assembly decides on it, and only for the Treasury is marked by monthly dynamics. So this is just my answer to that question, because obviously it's about ignorance. I forgot what else was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21948	Thank you, Mr. Minister. All I ask is that with respect you address the MPs of the people, no matter what group of MPs they are from. A representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and autonomous MPs 9+9, Miodrag Stamenkovic, came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21949	I thank Mr. Chairman. I will respect the remarks of the previous chairman and will not violate the Rules of Procedure, because in the second part of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure say that an authorised representative can use two times ten minutes each, and I'm going to take my exposure to those other 10 minutes, so I didn't break it, because I didn't answer at the beginning. It is easy for the minister to defend the budget when the caliber from which it is fired is quite thin, when the blanks are used as ammunition, i.e. an empty political story instead of a waist. There's no "s" on the waist. But let me start with the budget. Unfortunately, they said that this budget in the beginning is not developmental and it is not reformal. And that normally comes from those quasireform forces, which have declared themselves a leader in the transition process, only because they sold tobacco industry in one year. Not even the tobacco industry, but the billion-dollar tobacco market and the tobacco industry were donated. Now, these leaders are good, and this budget isn't developmental and it's not reformal. Now I'm going to have to do just a few results and some projections. I will not talk about the 2005 economic policy objectives, and these are the results for the first eight months 2005: exports increased by 45% with an increase in imports of 30% and...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21950	Please, I warn the Messengers to be a little quieter, you go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21951	... Export coverage increased from 32% to 45%. The most significant positive result is that the balance of payments deficit from 15 per cent to 6% of GDP in the past has been reduced to 8 per cent of GDP this year, a projection by the end of the year. Budget deficit of 3.9% in 2003, 2005 surplus of 1.3%, which contributed to the reduction of current balance of payments deficits, the reduction of government debt and the decline of interest rates on the state securities market. The budget surplus, which some criticise, was used to repay debts from the past and in 2005 paid 7.5 billion dinars of debt to the road economy through the Ministry of Capital Investments, which, despite significantly reduced funds, is the most successful ministry. And everyone who criticises him knows for what reasons, they don't mind going on very high-quality new roads, which in Serbia was not built from existence to today as far as it is now being built. That is exactly the reason to attack both the ministry and the minister, because, for God's sake, the success of that part of Serbia is not forgiven. The budget surplus, in addition to these 7.5 billion, created the basis for a 45 billion dinar pensioner's debt. The budget surplus has enabled the realisation of brand-new government programmes, which is what interests us who deal with the economy; self-employment macro-credits, subsidized housing loans with a reduced interest rate, the establishment of the Fund for young talent, the promotion of regional development, the fall of external debt enabled the borrowing of the private sector without increasing the overall debt of the country. This was literally a stimulating measure for the development of the private sector, with a 10% increase in the number of employees in this part. Now the answer to the question – where is employment growth. It has it in the quality of jobs, my dears, because the quality of jobs is not social enterprises with negative capital in which people are seemingly employed, but rather jobs in newly opened small and medium-sized enterprises. Just to remind you: in the EU 80 million such jobs are the basis for wealth and prosperity in the EU. Therefore, it is an extremely reformal character of the changes we have, because we are changing the quality of jobs. To that end, the government has invested one billion for the macro-credit programme for self-employment, which is 4,000 new jobs. Half a billion for investment and employment in Kragujevac, Bor and Vranj; one billion for other active programmes. As a result, if someone happens to know that they are connecting to a boarding school, half of the cities in Serbia have exploded – all of them are building or planning industrial zones, business incubators, free customs zones, and all of them are images of the economy that we have in Europe. It's all an incentive to entrepreneurship, which is the largest reform part of this budget. In the end, the minister said exactly, for the first time, it was seen that the transition process ended, and thanks to the exact indicators. For the second year in a row, we have high economic growth, although you remember that in the spring, they predicted that we would fail, that we would have a negative growth in production. So, two years in a row - a favourable economic conjuncture. The only unachieved goal is to reduce inflation, for me it's no disaster, because inflation goes with conjuncture. If there was no conjuncture, we'd have a little inflation, but a sterile system. If that inflation had fallen to 4.5%, as far as we planned at the end of the transition period, we would now have reduced investment and negative trends. Here is the observation that inflation is the result of VAT introduction. That's ridiculous. The VAT puts the grey economy into legal flows, controls cash flows, and does not exactly favour inflation. The most difficult reforms are behind us. Therefore, this 2006 budget has basic characteristics – balanced, reduced public spending and has public investments. I want to end up as promised within ten minutes, I'm going to cut a lot short, not talk about the objectives and priorities of economic policy in 2006. The minister said a lot. With sound monetary and fiscal policies and institutional reforms, which are guaranteed by the Government's macro-economic stability; a reduction in public spending (these 1.3% will be continuity in the following year), business security, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, long-term sustainable economic growth, based on increasing domestic savings, investment and exports; a reduction in current balance of payments deficits and a downturn of the total public debt below 50% of the gross social product, with regular debt service. Public spending – that is why some are rebelling, because they are hard to lose acquired privileges, but it is the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Public consumption burdens the economy, reduces expansion in the economy, and is currently jeopardising the basic interests of citizens. For this reason, it is welcomed that in 2006, an additional reduction of 1.3% in the gross social product will be made on a permanent basis: – 0.55% by rationalising the costs of the health fund, by reducing subsidies to social enterprises and by abolishing export subsidies of 0.4%. This is normal, the economic subsidy was – pouring water into the sand, not the development dinar. So now it's going with the development dinar, i.e. by investing in economic activity; 0.2% reduction in civilian numbers, which has already been completed in the military, means one painful job has been completed. Transfers are shrinking. Unfortunately, I don't have time to tell you, I'm going to finish, a little look ahead, about the macroeconomic framework for the period 2006 and 2008 and the third and the fourth part, which is also the best for me in this budget, that's the third part that talks about public finances, and above all the fourth part, which is about structural reforms. These structural reforms, planned, very well supported by legal activity, I welcome, because they will ensure that by 2008 we really end up with a transition, unfortunately all those critics who would like to make it worse, so that they can do better. I can say, as a party representative who has the best results, this budget and politicians criticise those who have never shown any results. We'll vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21952	Thank you. According to the application of the word, the word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, then Slavoljub Matic, and if it is not in the hall, then Milka Silajev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21953	Yesterday, ministers, for an hour and a half here, you told us about the country's imaginary budget of dembelia, and we expected, on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget, to tell us a little bit about how the citizens of Serbia will survive another of your budgets. You say, you've explained the budget five times so far, and you're a minister for two years. The very fact that you've explained budget rebalancing three times tells you how good you are at budget makers. You said you were satisfied for the first time. Now, that's what we're worried about, that you're satisfied, I'm afraid it means that the citizens of Serbia will be very unhappy with the realisation of this budget. You said so much here yesterday, so I tried to record some of the most characteristic things to try to comment on. You say the objectives of this budget are to bring down inflation, continue structural reforms and increase exports. I couldn't write it down, you said two more things. These goals are really in place. I don't know what MP that would be and what Serbian citizen would say he has something against the goals you set. But things say something completely different. Until a few days ago, you were talking about lying to economists, you and your party friend Jelasic, who are talking about some two-digit inflation for this year, and now you recognize it yourself. How much inflation will really be, or how real it would be if statistics did not do what they did, or meet the requirements of the orderrs, and besides, they know Serbia's citizens best through their daily expenses. Continuing structural reforms and increasing exports. What are we going to do, Minister, to export when we don't produce anything? Indeed, I do not understand what your motive was when you know well that you have closed everything that could be closed, that they are now arriving, it is again the sin of those before you who have sold out the economy of Serbia, and then they have laid down these various businesses for two years, and now the deadline of two years that they have been obliged to, like, keep the company's activity that they bought, and now there is an expression of what we talked about – that companies are cheaply bought only because of good locations. And, of course, all these workers are later fired, one tour has been fired since companies were bought, and now this rest is on the street, because new owners, bosses, are changing their business; where they were, stocking production, making hotels, they don't care about production, they want what they're going to make money from. You say – a reform of the state pension fund was carried out during this year, followed by health insurance and education. This is where I followed. If there is a reform of health insurance and education as a reform of the pension fund, then really – the people of Serbia, God help you!!- I'm sorry. From this government, from this budget, you have no help from this minister, on the contrary!- I'm sorry. How are you going to reform health insurance? We'll see when we discuss it, but it's interesting your idea of, at least what we find out in the media, because what you've said here is all wonderful and wonderful, how do you think you reform education? Do you really think that there is room in our education system for cancellations; that educators fear whether they will resent the director, whether they will tell him well – good morning or they will look at him a little bit. Now the directors are already listening to what you are announcing, which is announced by your colleague Vuksanovic, misusing what the directors are, introducing fears in schools and instead of educators dealing with what their job is, they have to court the directors, do what they say, to protect themselves, to secure and preserve their jobs. Then they go on with your praises. I really don't know where they are. Maybe you brought them from Japan. They must be like this. Economic growth the highest in Europe?- I'm sorry. Now the problem is because of this high economic growth of 8.6 projected for, this, next year, and now 6.1% – there is an inflationary blow. Next, you say, record foreign investment growth. Where are they, this people in Serbia don't know about them, because if they had these investments and that's some kind of record, then I guess they'd be downsized. I guess that guy who invests is building a factory, I guess he's got to hire someone at that factory. Serbian citizens don't know that. You say an increase in savings to two billion euros. Maybe that's true, but why don't you say that the savings include deposits when opening, taking credit cards. Why don't you say that there are deposits that are invested in raising consumer loans, so let's set it aside to see how real savings are. Of course, you know all that well, but it sounds nice when you talk. You say, surplus in production, this is really, food, ancient and furry. What kind of textile factory does this now, especially which one is exporting? Minister Dinkic, give me some, so be realistic!- I'm sorry. Next, you say, Minister, that we are now on a rising economic cycle. I guess in the upcoming economic cycle, people need to be hired, not to stay out of work, they need to grow real wages, not the purchasing power of the citizens down. They were telling my colleagues what increased purchasing power means and what it means in September, what it means to spend credit. This year, citizens used these very expensive and unfavourable loans, consumer loans, and then they spend these loans on their daily needs!- I'm sorry. As of next year, there will be problems with the repayment of loans and the settlement of these regular costs. You say the basic characteristics of the budget are the reduction of public spending, significantly greater public investment, a significantly larger developmental part of the budget. It sounds really nice, but you should have said, I hope you will say it anyway, what it really means to reduce public spending – meeting IMF requirements: reducing pensions, threatening health layoffs, education, in the judiciary, and if that's what your goal is and your intention, then thank you, but Serbia doesn't need it. Essentially bigger public investment, you just mentioned it, you didn't mention one, and it would be nice to see what important larger public investments are. You further said, one of the basic characteristics of the budget, a significantly larger developmental part of the budget, which is the creation of a pool in Banjaca. Unbelievable! Mr. Minister, what you presented to us as a budget is neither developmental nor social, nor reformal. This is something that will be spent by June or July, so then, fellow Members of Parliament, we will have budget rebalances, and we will increase the amounts again and that is the essence of Mladjan Dinkic's budget. You boast of a large budget reserve, boast of a surplus. You heard from your colleagues what that really means. A large budget reserve, in fact, you're pulling out of a budget surplus, that is, out of credit and debt. And why did you predict such a large budget reserve? If Vlasi didn't think of it; now Mladjan Dinkic will deploy the money of the people of Serbia, and then he didn't predict in the budget of those "fighters" for human rights, it's Kandic, Vuco, (Vuco said they were "fighters" for human rights) and he didn't predict them, but he'll give them money from the budget reserve, and then the citizens won't know. He did not predict here at the cost of "maneken" Serbia, the President of the Republic, a total of 122 million 946 000 – Serbian citizens will cost you DS President, who falsely presents himself as president of all Serbian citizens, is not intended to be the National Office, because, ministers, you expected us with all weapons to attack the National Office, and because you know, I suppose, that the National Office has no basis in the Constitution, in no positive legal regulation. Boris Tadic was by no means allowed to form the National Office, and, especially now, there are national offices of Boris Tadic across all local communities. That's why you and the People's Office are going to pay from a large budget reserve, and in the light of the budget, so Section 2 talks about the President of the Republic and the total cost of 122 million 946 thousand dinars for the expenses of the President of the Republic and there is no mention of the National Office. In the light of the above, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In the 120th and 121st of the President of the Republic, Section 2 in Section 2, it is said: "In this section, funds have been planned to perform the functions of the president, i.e. the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the work of the National Office." Minister Dinkic, we'd like to know how much money that is, specifically, for the work of the National Office. In the last position on this page (which ends on the next page 122) It is said: "In the framework of the funds for ongoing repairs and maintenance, the expenses of repairs and maintenance of the facility on Andric's wreath number 1, where the seat of the General Secretariat is located (but it is not, that is, the seat of the President of the Republic, and the General Secretariat), maintenance and cleaning of marbles, parquets, carpets, curtains, furniture and other things." And you left out the mirrors, since Tadic put mirrors on all the walls so that it could be viewed, as well as spending on the name of liquid repairs and maintenance of the premises of the National Office. So again, the People's Office is hidden, and we want Serbian citizens to know how much they're going to pay for the People's Office and that Gilas and how much they're going to pay for "fighters" for human rights. It would have been good, Minister, if you had told us, when you talked about how Serbia's citizens would live well in 2006 (you said that in 2005, the last year, as you so-called. Reformists like to say, these difficult transitions, painful transitions, so, we are followed by a year in which honey and milk will flow), but you haven't told us – how many pensions there will be, how many salaries of educators, how many salaries of healthcare workers will be, how many salaries will be paid in the judiciary. It is expected of you, it is expected of this parliament. You explained last night that they pay in health care, I think, can increase by 9%. I didn't write it down, but it seems to me so much, which isn't much, it doesn't matter, but it's what's behind it that matters. There will be so much pay, if no one accepts a new job, and if some people are fired, then the wages within that framework will be able to increase. This applies to all beneficiaries of the budget. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the site: Local Self-Government Only. Only on local self-government? I realized yesterday when you were saying that this applies to health care, and to the judiciary, and to education, because you were talking about voluntary departures from these areas, so that would mean that if someone in one school has 50 employees – they have, say, the projected million dinars for salaries and the director fires them 49, his salary of a million dinars. Who's going to work and how is he going to do that we don't know?- I'm sorry. What you've been saying about housing loans, Minister, we've told you more than once, and I'm really convinced now that you understand that we were right. You're free of credit, you're free of credit, you're free of interest, you're free of interest, it can be 2 percent, there's no citizen of Serbia who can take credit under these conditions. You've got to find it. Now we've got mortgage law. I spoke to your colleague Parivodic, who is an authorised promoter, and he doesn't have a solution yet, says he's trying to find him. The government has to, you have to go through some regulations to offer us a link between the credit user and the future real estate. So far, credit can only be taken by someone who already has real estate, because he can write a mortgage on it. We don't mind if someone who has an apartment take a loan to buy a bigger apartment, someone who has an apartment to take a loan to buy a business space and vice versa. We don't mind, but that's not what the citizens of Serbia need. Serbian citizens should be allowed a favourable loan to be taken by someone who has no real estate, and you have no solution for that. Then don't deceive the public and drag false information to the citizens, say – you can get credit. So then the citizen goes, collects a bunch of files there and says, "It's all right," and now just give me the real estate you're going to write a mortgage on. So, you see, try to help Minister Parivovich find a solution to this. You see, ladies and gentlemen, part of this budget has been foreseen for what we of the SRS have been fighting since this new government has proposed to us law, because the previous one has done all this but through regulations, and this one through the assembly majority through laws. A large part of the funding is provided for various agencies, commissions, directors, administrations, etc., and we have no idea what they're really doing. We know what the law provides, what do they do, but what do they really do – I don't think anyone in Serbia knows?- I'm sorry. Then some of them are insolent to you, so they're reporting to the media. Of course, I have no intention of protecting them either, because they haven't done anything either, you know well who that applies to, because to work at least those agencies, which Serbian citizens pay, not only agencies, various commissions, administrations, I don't know what they're already called, to work, then it would certainly not have happened that your new friend, Karic, receives 7,000 euros a day, and of that is half of the state's money. It's not Mobtel's money, because he himself says his salary is 250,000 euros. This means that daily Bogoljub Karic gets 7,000 euros. Half of it's state money. Minister Dinkic seems to be upset that I said Bogoljub Karic is his friend. The fact is, it is. We also know who traveled to Japan to reconcile you, Mr. Dinkic. We know that you and Karic bought chains and locks together and that you agreed that you would go in front of him to put chains and locks, and he was behind you to promise to take them off. You end it with banks in Serbia, you end up with insurance companies. I call on the MPs to take seriously all our remarks, to read the budget, not to listen to what Dinkic here yesterday told about his wishes and what he learned in Japan, how well he lived. Do not support this budget, let the minister return it, let us examine it again, and let us finally get a budget from which Serbian citizens will benefit, and not only be taken for anything and impossible, for Serbian citizens to pay water tax, and that Dinkic is paying Tadic's and Gilasova's national office, it is indeed unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21954	Since MP Slavoljub Matic is not in the O.R., the word is Milka Silajev, and let Momir Markovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21955	Dear Presidency, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, after a very competent presentation by Miss Grubjesic, after Mr Todorovic's realistic, realistic and quality presentation, I would like to talk about this budget with an optimistic approach. You know, the reason for optimism certainly exists, because last year's budget proposal was 362 billion, this year's budget proposal is 487,9 billion. Still, that's the reason for optimism, regardless of all the regrets heard from this pay phone. A little more optimism in Serbia wouldn't hurt all of us, and I'm an optimist. There is a saying - faith in success, half of success, and let us hope, as Serbia, that we will be able to get into this Europe as soon as possible, respecting the standards it prescribes, respecting everything it recommends in some way. You know that the debate on the budget is always a sort of test whether the government has support in most parliaments. This time, the vote on the proposed public revenue and expenditure plan for 2006 has an even greater specific weight, as its adoption also depends on the fate of a three-year arrangement with the IMF. The budget is in line with IMF requirements, when it comes to the objectives it must meet, which are: reduction of public spending, stricter monetary policy, new law on banks, privatisation of public enterprises, continuation of structural reforms. When the Assembly adopts with the budget the laws on health insurance and banks, amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, the board of directors of the IMF is expected to assess the last revision positively, which would also mean a successful completion of the arrangement. The budget proposal, as you know and as I said, was 487 billion, expenditure is 448 and Serbia is the second time, the second year in a row achieves a budget surplus, this time at 39.6 billion dinars. It should depreciate the current balance of payments deficits and reduce the pressure on inflation. When these two objectives are achieved, the rate of salary tax and health insurance contributions should be reduced, the expected growth of the gross social product of 5%, and the expected price growth to little 9.3%. The government predicted that it would continue and lead a solid monetary policy and continue to reform the system's institutions. The budget plans a reduction in public spending by 1.3% of gross domestic product, planned privatisation revenues and payments of approved loans are 30 billion dinars, and expenditure based on external debt payments next year will be 47.4 billion dinars. The largest participation in the cost structure has transfers, as much as 40%. Total transfers will be 110 billion dinars, of which more than half of these funds go to compulsory social insurance organisations, i.e. 84 billion to cover the deficit in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. For funding the powers of the state community, 55.4 billion dinars are planned, while part of the agricultural budget next year is 23 billion dinars. Otherwise, the reduction of public spending by 1.3% of gross national product contributes most to health rationalisation, then, reducing subsidies to inefficient social enterprises, reducing salaries in state bodies, reducing the number of employees in state bodies by 10%. This reduction creates the possibility of reducing the tax rate. The surplus is used to repay domestic and external debt, and significant funds are allocated to special government programmes, which I particularly want to talk about. The 2006 budget news is that the Health Fund, for the first time since 1945, will have a surplus of 10 billion dinars, due to the voluntary departure of 7,140 employees and the permanent abolition of their jobs. It's mostly secondary activity, and it's not a doctor or a professional person. There are even plans to increase the number of doctors, since we have a lot of doctors on the desk. Savings to the Health Fund should also contribute to abolishing unnecessary expenditure under the Health Insurance Law proposal, which is on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. As for the spending of surpluses next year, 47.4 billion will be focused on public debt repayment, with 40.4 billion dinars for payment of domestic debt, and 6.4 billion dinars for payment. The allocations for housing loans amounting to 2.8 billion dinars, for export credits of 1.5 billion dinars, for microcredits for the unemployed and for promoting regional development by billions of dinars. The youth talent fund, for the second time, will be doubled and will amount to 900 million dinars. Railway subsidies should be reduced, as the number of workers is also decreasing. Investments in the area of culture will be focused on the reconstruction of all capital facilities and cultural institutions, so that 40 million dinars are foreseen for the reconstruction of the National Theatre, Library, Museum, for the production of the Serbian film 130 million dinars, for the purchase of books 140. This is my optimistic approach to the budget, because it's so realistic and for capital publishing projects 15 million dinars. One of the newspapers is the introduction of a national pension for hundreds of prominent independent artists in culture, worth 30,000 dinars. The government plans to continue the reconstruction of Hilandar, which envisions 113m dinars, while 84m dinars and the Serbian Theatre in Novi Sad 48m dinars and 25m dinars for the National Theatre in Nis are foreseen for the programme activities. At the same time, the reconstruction of the theatre in Subotica, Užica, as well as the revitalisation of the cinema network in the large cities of Serbia, is also envisaged. The 2006 sport budget should be twice the size of this year. 220 million will be invested in building facilities that will be used for the 2009 University, and 62 million will be spent on the reconstruction of the SC "Banjica" swimming pool due to the organisation of the European Water polo Championship. A significant amount of 330m dinars is foreseen for reconstruction and construction of local sports facilities throughout Serbia, as it is in a healthy body and a healthy spirit. Our Serbia needs sports grounds, we need our youth to get more involved in sports. The government also planned five times more funds for the Ministry of Religion, which will be used to adapt religious facilities to the territory of the Republic and around half a billion are intended for border crossings in Serbia. Tourism subsidies – 280 million, as well as the development of infrastructure in tourism, are foreseen, as it is a branch that is perspective for Serbia and which is not at all neglectable. It is planned to develop the tourism of Stara Planina, Palić, Divchibara, Soko Banje, Golia, Vlasina. The allocation of funds will be under a special act by the Serbian government. For agriculture, there are 23 billion dinars, which is six billion more than last year, and subsidies to agriculture are not lifted. The share of agricultural pensions in the budget rose from 0.6% to 0.8% next year. Agricultural pensions will be increased, and pensions will be paid for 2006 in January, and the last pension paid to farmers was in 2003. Investment will continue in the country's infrastructure: water, sewerage, roads, planting fruit, vines. In order to settle the obligation of the Republic to provide for a special rules and to compensate for the difference up to a minimum pension, a amount of 6.6 billion is foreseen. The amount of 720 million will be allocated to the rehabilitation and employment programme of people with disabilities. Part of the 350m fund is intended for the Solidarity Fund, and the schedule is carried out under a special government act. Twelve billion debt to pensioners, out of 45, is resolved by paying pensioners instead of in bonds, in cash, in two wars. The first war should be paid in December of this year and the second in July of next. The amount of 15.4 billion dinars is intended for the transfer of cities and municipalities to Serbia. The amount of 713m dinars is intended for the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and the schedule is determined by a special act of the government. The funding of a billion dinars is intended for microcredits for employment programmes for those who have lost their jobs, with the aim of enabling them to start their own operations, and for the part to encourage regional development of Bora, Vranja and Kragujevac and other cities worth billions of dinars. Serbia's most important task is to reduce the balance of payments and inflation deficits, boost the competitiveness of the economy and investment, while reducing consumption. That is why in the procedure, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises is in place. The essence of this law is to establish a control of the growth of wages prices in public enterprises, whose founder is local self-government. In order to increase prices, communal companies will have to seek the government's consent, and members of the 19th Budget Law limit employees' salaries. The adoption of this law is of enormous importance for the functioning of the state: an arrangement with the IMF should be successfully completed and completed. Otherwise, the consequences will be catastrophic because they would then end Stabilisation and Association negotiations with the European Union. No serious country would give a signal to its investors if they didn't come to Serbia, it would be a big step backwards. Now Serbia is a real investment hit and we need to take that chance. There is a good time for everyone in life, and this is a time of great decisions for Serbia on many issues, when we need a lot of brains, the absence of vanity and disagreement. The G17 will support this bill, and I hope the opposition parties will do so in view of their great political maturity, as well as their awareness of the country's situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21956	The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, let Savo Urosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if he stayed a minister, I'd say hello to him from the cylon. It's nice, we're an extremely rich country, when we could go first, or as he would say, the first man in the area of telecommunications and the finance minister to send all the way to Japan to make peace. They could've done it somewhere in the bathroom, but Japan's a little further. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Dinkic said in time that the crown of his career would be the Nobel Prize. However, he saw that Andric wrote a book about this thickness and won the Nobel Prize for Literature, and he also started these drafts of the budget law to write this fat. It's not about fat, it's about what's inside. Let him know when he gets here, there's no Nobel Prize for statistics. Secondly, yesterday, when the presentation started, after the minister's speech, I got a little scared. National MP Matic so criticised the minister that I believed the coalition broke, that the elections were on the threshold. We have not yet managed to convince all Serbian citizens of the danger of giving a single vote to the current ruling coalition. barely 43% of Serbian citizens decided to vote for us according to research. So we need a little more time to convince those 7% and then take responsibility for it ourselves. In the end, I found that MP Stamenkovic planted MP Matic with his notes, so he was not looking at Stamenkovic's notes and that's why the criticism of MP Matic was sent to the minister so fiercely. All those who listened to Minister Dinkic got the budget well because all the data was repeated, some four, some five times. I had a feeling he was being written in 4-5 copies, pulled together and put together, so he read everything, so we heard the same data four or five times. He'd be a good pedagogue, you can tell yesterday he knows how to tell fairy tales. But let's start with what this budget represents. Last year's budget was 396 billion 99 million dinars. This year's 487 billion dinars. The difference is 92 billion. For 92 billion more, the finance ministry will take off Serbia's citizens through taxes, various other taxes and abductions. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia, the 92 billion are not other people's money but the money that is now in your pocket, and at the end of the year will certainly not be found. Page 32 – Education. It's nice that a little bit of the funding is intended for education. However, in education, in health care and in all other segments of social life, salary increases depend exclusively on how many employees in those segments will be out of work. Therefore, the number of salaries and the number of unemployed who will wait for a job at the bureau will increase proportionally. It is the essence of this project, such a fat one as Dinkic suggested. As far as education is concerned, how much damage is being taken into account about education and how much damage it has done that you saw first of all that he is a member of some of the parties from your coalition, let me tell you that Radojica Mitrovica, a member of the DSS, is, for example, the only Serb representative in the Cypriot municipality of Pristina. The first thing he did was prepare 42 layoffs for all the educators. Otherwise, it's two schools, agricultural school and high school. He signed the resolutions with some of the grasshoppers from Lebanon, formed his own security. The third day, they strike hunger, and already two or three ended up at the Emergency Center. Therefore, education needs to be allocated to resources, but education as it is is, as it is, the minister cannot lead. Next is the Ministry of Capital Investment. We heard the Slavic Minister for Capital Investments this morning, but to this day this same minister or someone from his party or someone from his ministry doesn't answer the question in which still the country is being given its way under concession. Put Horgos – Novi Sad, half the highway is built, another half should be made. New Sad – Belgrade is built an entire highway. For the bridge to be built with the Bez state, she is in charge of 120m euros or dollars and will be financed by the state. Therefore, only the highway from Belgrade to Požega is what any smart country could possibly give under concessions without mentioning those locomotives mentioned by my predecessors. It's not about the big money, it's about a few million euros in fees that are probably from the railways, and it's probably someone from the Ministry (I suspect one but I can't say, threatening the press, and I'm afraid he's gonna put it in my pocket too). It's a figure of 640m euros in dry money, from a toll collection a month and a half ago. Now the Horgos highway – Novi Sad and Novi Sad – Belgrade can calm souls from charging toll to finance construction of other tapes and bridges and highways Belgrade – Požega. Therefore, so much for your Minister of Capital Investments' thanks. Time doesn't let me talk much more, I have to cut back. The SRS has submitted a lot of amendments, so we'll talk about every amendment. Next is page 39 – Mine Action Centre. At this Mine Action Center, which is a total of 7,419,000 dinars, so let's talk a little bit. It's the same mine action center that worked at the Batrovci crossing, so the military gave them a map, a minefield scheme, with mines drawn. They cleaned out all of the land around the minefield and 25 mines in the minefield. The minefield and today at Batrovac stands. It's the same center that cleaned that bomb on Avali when the Tower of Avali was bombed; there was one unexploded 500kg bomb left. The international community has made a 200,000-euro donation to remove the bomb. It's the same center that was planning on cleaning that bomb, going 20 feet into the depths, and they didn't find the bomb, and they knew where it was around. The centre says you haven't cleared the bomb, you can't withdraw funds, funds to Ratko Mitrovica. The mine action centre didn't pay off donations, it was paid out of the budget. It is the same centre that now cleans, i.e. the Slovenian company ITF and one Croatian firm "Enigma" take jobs and then our mines engage as a physical workforce to clean up. They got four locations in Nis. The project was built, only the terrains are out. The inhabited area is still polluted, primarily by cluster bombs and very dangerous bombs, not being cleaned and not in the project. It's the same mine-mining center that's projecting on the Kopalnik, where huge tape bombs have fallen, and since the Kopalnik is 80% under the Thutinarian Forest, they've hung up and hung onto the trees, just cleaning on the ground and underground, if any of these bombs are underground. Mines on the crosstops, which pose a latent threat, are not cleaned. Such a demining centre should be deformed and formed by a centre of professional people, who will certainly work, as there are many more minefields uncleaned. In the end, page 33 - Ministry of Culture, and otherwise the other parts of this project for the Nobel Prize will talk when I talk about amendments. The Ministry of Culture is scheduled to provide 3,582,694 etc. It is the same culture ministry that the SRS and SRS MPs, members of the Committee on Culture, pointed to two years ago a terrible thief who, in the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, appears to be performing today and day. The Ministry of Culture rules out silly, we don't have legal options. We don't have a legal opportunity to stop thieves, and when they did, then, the minister tells me the other day on the Culture Committee, I'm going to take you to see how it's an arranged museum. All taken care of, all cleaned up, nothing. It's the same museum we filed for criminal charges, SRS MPs, board members filed a criminal report, 21 Tito's watch was stolen, after seven days was sold in New York for five million dollars. The Ministry of Culture has all the information, but has no desire to finish the job or have any interest. Third route I can't find. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about this big budget, and especially when it compares to this last year's budget that we've also criticised, there's a lot to talk about, but we're going to do it during the amendments debate, because there's a lot more of my colleagues to talk about in principle. We're always like a party denied during time, because many free people get this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21958	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sava Urosevic, and let Nemanja Sarovic be prepared. Mr. Urosevic, just so you know, the G17 Group of MPs plus there are 10 minutes left for this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21959	The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected MPs, has been said very positively about the new, fifth, draft budget for two years since this majority has been in power and since Mr Mladjan Dinkic was in office in the Ministry of Finance, that is, since the government heads the economics part of the G17 Plus party. What it shows is that for the second transition government, and I point out that the second transition government is in the most unfavourable position, because the first transition government has had many favourable circumstances for its work, all that it cannot do, and what is difficult in transition, is the task of the second transition government. The government has fully engaged in the fight against all serious problems and is addressing them in the best possible way. One of the evidence is this budget, and five times this government comes out and asks the Assembly for trust. I hope that, and I'm sure, the fifth time he gets trust at the most critical point, and that's the adoption of the budget. The basic characteristic, in my opinion, of this budget is that again and in 2006, as in 2005, a surplus appears. Why is that a basic feature for me? For years, we had deficits and previous governments fought in various ways with deficits. These budget deficits were mostly sources of inflation. For the second time, we have a surplus that shows that this budget also allows for the right to fill the revenue side, by reforming the tax system, which is the introduction of a value added tax. The tax administration is now doing better than ever and charging higher rates than the users. Also, the surplus has contributed to the fact that public spending has been significantly reduced and reduced to some European frameworks, i.e. to pursue a framework in the part of the social product in countries in which the market economy is fully managed. The presence of surpluses has opened the possibility of reducing tax rates in 2007 or reducing tax rates, perhaps even VAT, and certainly tax rates of contribution to citizens' income, which will significantly relieve the economy and allow them to come to a larger number of foreign investments. I'm saying, there's a lot going on, I wouldn't look back on the positive side of the budget. I would like to comment on this speaker for some of the tenorous claims, such as inflation in this country being influenced by VAT to a greater extent than it is. The minister acknowledged that once in the introduction of VAT inflation, VAT inflation was increased because certain items had been collected. Those who haven't had a tax so far, they do now. One of his fellow MPs said the VAT affected the increase in the price of agricultural products. Given the fact that I am in agricultural production, I would very much like that agricultural production to have such a balance, as my colleague stated, that the market recognises me always the cost of production. A colleague said, expensive production, jumped the price. In the agricultural product market, the law of supply and demand is extremely functioning. The agricultural market is always the result of one balance of supply and demand, not the real costs incurred in the production of these products. Before I say the last sentence, I'm going to say one more thing that I've noticed, analyzed this budget, and that's an extremely conservative estimate of the revenue side in the budget. I expected the lowest increase in 2006 to 2005 for the estimated growth of the domestic social product, which is 5% and for the expected inflation of -9.5%. So it was supposed to be at least 14.5%. That's the kind of thing I expected. However, we have a growth in the revenue side by only 12%. So once again, I expect one rebalancing half of the year, when it is seen that budget revenues will be higher and that after that rebalance we will have a lot of investment. In the end, I will quote a colleague named Todorovic who spoke before me about the budget, who said that this budget cannot be said to be good, not bad, but real. I would add, when something is real – then it's the best. Therefore, I am sure that MPs G17 plus will vote for this budget. I also call on other parliamentary clubs to contribute to reforms in Serbia, voting for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21960	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let Branka Bosnjak be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21961	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a big difference between us SRS and you from G17 plus, because when we take something from the paper for the assembly speaker, we bring them not to read the prewritten texts, but to remind ourselves of certain facts during the speech. I don't believe there's anyone, even of you, who can remember the budget, which has a few hundred pages, by heart and all these divisions. I must note that what characterized Mr Dinkic, as well as you from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, have been reading pre-prepared fairy tales all along. Mr Dinkic looked more like Alice in Wonderland, reading here to all of us and entertaining the MPs by having to say. Whoever was objectively listening and trying to assess, indeed, could not tell whether, as Mrs. Radeta said, it was a country of dembelia or someone else. With today in Serbia, what you've been saying has absolutely nothing to do with it. Ask the citizens of Serbia if they believe those fairy tales you're telling us. First of all, here you have done a few things that are extremely incorrect and contrary to some parliamentaryism and parliamentary spirit. You first brought together five laws in a single debate. Each SRS MP has 14 seconds under the law; in 14 seconds I need to explain the budget to which they have added the plans of the Republic Fund for PIO and some other funds. Five funds. So the complete budget law and the financial plans of the five funds should be explained in 14 seconds. I'm asking you, if it's such a good budget, why didn't you do a point-by-point debate for five hours, and even suggest that there be no debate for five hours, but to be 10. If that were such a good thing, and anyone who thinks rationally and normally, who really believes in it, said -- it suits me to have this debate as long as possible, so that the citizens of Serbia can see how good we bring them with this new budget. Of course, it's nothing. Minister Dinkic behaves in his old manner. Yesterday, he put what he had out here for almost two hours, and then he left this morning. He obviously doesn't care about any of the MPs, even his own, he'll say. Maybe because she already knows, I don't know if he wrote you and spoke to you or if the same person wrote to him and to you. Obviously, he doesn't want to hear you or anyone else. Gentlemen, that's what he says about you. Don't appreciate the opposition through that. That's the relationship your minister has with your parliamentary group. As for what Minister Dinkic told us, he himself said that the fifth time explains the budget, but that he was personally satisfied for the first time, and our experience teaches us that the more satisfied he is, the harder and more difficult it is for the citizens of the Republic. We've heard a lot of nebulist about the surplus, which we'll have in this year, while the minister has been promising us how much inflation there will be. Now we see that there's nothing, a being, a malt, twice as big as the one he promised. But it's thunderingly announcing a 2006 surplus in the budget of even 39 billion dinars. It should be noted that this budget, compared to last year's, is about 20% higher; so 20% more interventions than citizens of the Republic of Serbia, than businesses in the Republic of Serbia, than the few companies that work today than they were in 2005; practically 10% of the budget refers to the planned surplus. If we ignore whether or not you are going to make so many budget revenues, one wonders – why, if you don't need so much to spend, the businesses in Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are yelling skin off the back. You are boasting that your income is much higher on that basis, how much more you take from citizens and from businesses based on taxes. This creates an adequate economic climate for the employment of new workers, for development, for economic growth and everything else. Why didn't you cut the VAT by a few percent, from 18% to 14%? Why don't you give the citizens of Serbia the noose around their necks? But here, so Minister Dinkic can come out and say: 39 billion is a surplus, and now we're going to take someone's skin off their backs; and so you can say – see how wonderful everything works. The second thing, I really don't have much time if I want to leave my colleagues for a while, look at what's really striking, division 110 - President of the Republic. It says, total: 122,946,000. It's the price of your cohabitation with the President of the Republic, so you're having a little fight, so you like each other a little bit, but when it comes to separating – for the President of the Republic of 122 million. After that, Serbia's Constitutional Court-39 million dinars cost the state the Constitutional Court of Serbia. That's three times less than the President of the Republic. How much is Boris Tadic worth? If you hadn't designed a mirror to build it in the next year, like it hasn't been seen in the world before. How can it cost more than three times the President of the Republic, as an incoherent body, than the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which should be a great evil here, which is possible in Serbia, to prevent? That's why it suits you, that's why the Constitutional Court judges don't pass, which is why they're proposing as well as the kind of personnel they're proposing, which is why they're proposing with a delay, because you're comfortable with the situation that Serbia's Constitutional Court doesn't exist. That's what suits you after 5 October 2000, when you came to power, then a year and a half did not work the Constitutional Court. Now he hasn't worked for, like, seven or eight months, he's out of a judge's internship. So, from day to day, you lose the judges of the Constitutional Court. So there's a lot that you need to explain. Secondly, why nowhere is it clear to us and Serbian citizens how much this year will be spent on the office of the President of the Republic, or the National Office, as it is already called. It is clear that it is not a national, especially because the People's Office exists only in those municipalities where the Democratic Party is in power. That's the president of all citizens, then. The National Office, it's already clear to everyone, serves only to employ DS activists. Then some who couldn't make it to the judge's election here, and they were the best candidates, neutral, like this, or like that, when they didn't go to the judge's election, the next month they were hired in the People's Office. So, I don't know when you'll stop fooling people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you predicted here is certainly not good. The SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this. You can invite us to vote for this, simply not on our mind, we will remain consistent, we know why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia chose us. We know what we're offering, that next time they choose us even more. That's exactly what we're gonna do to stand up to you and projects like this. Furthermore, it is said that a reform of the pension system has been achieved. That's why pensions are getting smaller and smaller, so they'll be harmonised for six months. If inflation is as much as it is now said to be, in addition to New Year's, and it's already being said that up to 115 will come to the euro, so you see how it will look like a pension when six months wait to bring prices up, inflation with pension growth. The next is health care and education. So education, health and justice are the next ones that can be calm and say they are facing reforms. We've already heard announcements from the IMF that it's something that's not popular, but it's going to have to be reduced by employees' salaries. Then said Minister Dinkic, yes, but that is if no one is fired. He's already found a solution. He'll simply fire half the employees, increase the nominal salary for those who stay, but the fact that tens of thousands of people are going to stay on the street again, that's what he doesn't care about. So, I repeat, it's really very short the time we have to discuss, I've only been able to say a few things about the budget for a few words. This is a shame, gentlemen, for all of you who voted and who want to practically kill parliamentaryism in Serbia. I don't know how long you think you're hiding, you're shortening the debate. For most of the laws, no one in the ruling coalition is even interested in reading them, coming out here and saying anything about the law or... So now it bothers you that we're going out on our own, so now you've decided to cut the time short. So make sure that's not the way you'll be able to stop us in our criticism. You'd better read some of these laws too, so when you're asked somewhere by citizens, if you're allowed to go into the people at all, you know what you're going to tell them about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21962	The word has the People's MP Branka Bosnjak, let Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared, and if he is not there, then the word will be Rajko Baralić, then Nadica Momirov, then Zoran Antic. Another announcement, please, due to the schedule of your time, on the basis of the agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups, for Monday, at 10.00 hours, I have scheduled a session that will have only one item of the agenda – a resolution on the principles of negotiation and the principles of negotiating the negotiating team, but it will not affect the work of the Assembly, because we agreed that the Assembly will now work on Friday, so that it will not lose any day, Saturday and Sundays, and today we will only work until the finalisation of the united principle debate on 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21963	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of dear colleagues, allow me to first address the pensioners' viewers, ask them not to listen to all those who fear them with negative pension cuts and not paying their pensions. According to this budget, for the first time in the history of pensioners will receive a month-to-month pension, and for the first time they will receive adequate pension increases, and already in January they will be paid back, a complete backlog of pensions they have not received, and not in bonds, but in cash. So, please, don't mind these threats. You can count on this budget to think too much about pensioners. So we have a budget for 2006 and it predicts revenue of 487.9 billion dinars and expenditures of 448.3 billion dinars, and this further means that a surplus of 39.6 billion dinars is projected. The budget surplus is not the government's long-term economic strategy and the main objective of economic policy for next year will be to create conditions for tax cuts and wages contributions by the end of 2006, which is one of the party's basic promises, G17 plus before the elections. The draft budget outlines strategic economic objectives: retaining a high rate of economic growth of 5%, maintaining macroeconomic stability, reducing public spending, export growth and foreign investment, bringing inflation to a new 9.3% with a relatively stable rate of dinar, continuing economic reforms, and continuing to reduce current balance of payments deficits. In 2006 and 2008, Serbia's economic policy will be based on the accelerated structural reform that will be provided with the following measures: an increase in employment and population standards. The following activities are planned: further privatisation of social-owned enterprises to increase the efficiency of domestic economy, with an emphasis on improving export results and increasing employment, restructuring of enterprises in social property, along with appropriate social programmes for workers who are jobless. A special procedure is planned by the government to restructure public enterprises, which has otherwise been significantly implemented this year. Economic policy is based on further investment in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The most significant measures of the reforms launched are being implemented in the area of investment in human resources. It's still a very high unemployment rate. It must be solved through a national employment strategy. The envisaged models to be implemented are: the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, requalification programmes, the introduction of new technologies, investments in undeveloped regions, the promotion of business branches that employ a large number of unemployed and as a special measure, the employment care of persons with disabilities. Part of the budget, which analyses public investment, is in favour of realistic expectations, that economic policy will be drawn and implemented. The 2006 budget envisions increased investment in public investment by 52%, i.e. in 2005, around 15 billion will be spent by the end of the year, and 22.7 billion dinars are planned for 2006. What is the structure of these investments, or how will it be spent? Three times more will be invested in housing loans, which solves the housing issues of those who do not have apartments, but also stimulates the development of construction, knocks down the price of apartments, develops the furniture industry, transport, banking system, and most importantly, this is all the source of new jobs. Three times more will be invested in stimulating measures to increase exports. This will continue a positive trend in export growth, because as you know this year, it's 40%. Twice as much will be paid into the Youth Gifts Fund. The G17 plus party particularly wants to retain youth and intelligence in this country. Twice as much is planned in the Regional Development Fund, with the state funding this time to undeveloped areas, not giants, big-losing enterprises. Two and a half times more will be invested in construction facilities. The budget forecasts twice as much investment in sports and that will be spent on sports facilities by around 620 million dinars. This will mostly be invested in sports facilities outside Belgrade, except for some facilities necessary for the maintenance of the university, such as the Banjica pool. On the other hand, it envisions funding of sports alliances and sports programmes, with an emphasis on the mandatory award of all athletes who achieve top results, which are awarded in international competitions. In the area of culture, 6.4 billion dinars are planned to repair capital facilities, which have been failing for decades. The National Library, whose foundations are being shot, will be reconstructed, the moisture reigns in the basements and, of course, the books are awakening. The reconstruction of the National Museum facility in Belgrade and the endangered art foundation will be reconstructed after many years. I would especially like to thank you for your understanding of the funds for the purchase of contemporary Serbian artists' art, as I suppose most of you know that in the environment, neighbouring countries are buying out our capital works and thus reducing the opportunity for our citizens to see the works of capital artists. As for investments in cultural facilities in the interior, resources are allocated for reconstruction of theatres in Novi Sad, Nis, Subotica, but 90 million dinars will also be spent on repairing smaller cinemas in smaller places. 135 million will be invested in repairing court facilities on Dedinj; 130 million dinars will be allocated to support the Serbian film; 100 artists will receive national pensions; 190 million will be invested in the facilities of all religious communities and that all who applied for the funds will receive the funds. A special programme will be implemented through investment in tourism. The predominantly state will invest in infrastructure, and private people are expected to invest in facilities, hotels and catering facilities. The tourism ministry has produced one study, with the assistance of the World Tourism Organisation, which are areas to invest in, which are: Serbian spas, but there is Divcibara, will invest in Palic, Goli, Vlasin. It seems important to say that, among other things, it will be invested in the airport, which should serve tourism. Finally, I would especially like to praise the analysis of the energy reform proposal, as it envisions a strategy for developing the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015. This will lead us into the society of countries that care about economic independence, because by investing in their own resources, especially renewable sources, our country is becoming economically independent. You know that the European average is about 20 per cent of renewable energy sources, and Serbia spends only one per cent of these resources. That is why I am encouraging the proposed energy development strategy and I want to thank you for this draft budget, both the Government and the Ministry and to propose, as party G17 plus, that you vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21964	Mr. Stamenkovic is not here right now. Then, MP Rajko Baralic, and be prepared Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21965	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget is the most important law in a year. He's important to all citizens, who should benefit from him. Some of them live, 216.954 people, employees, receive paid directly or indirectly from the budget or assistance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's 216 thousand families who live on it. But what's also important for us is whether we found the necessary balance between what citizens need and have to pay for all of this to work so that everyone is elementally satisfied, that no important function is compromised without the level of burden being such that it can't be tolerated. It's a great art to compose the budget so that what I'm talking about works out in a good way. There will always be those who will have an argument that something can do better, that somewhere the burden could be lower, and that for some purposes more funds should be provided. I'll talk about a few questions, always talking about sources when it comes to budgets. He's not here today, Mr. Minister. I promised to ask him at a meeting, and I asked him that recently at the Parliament Club. Recently, she announced that all privatised cementers in Serbia, a creamed Jelen Do, then those who deal with the exploitation of mineral waters in Serbia, owe to the state of Serbia, on the basis of unmistakable commitments, based on the Law on concessions and other laws, more than $50m. I again point to this problem, and I ask the people of the Ministry of Finance, I have asked that and the minister of the parliamentary group, personally, we have no reason, as the people say, to scold in front of these people who privatised this in Serbia. There are several laws they have broken. We are obliged to point out this and to ask all state authorities to ensure that the owners of cementers in Serbia, Cretan Jelen Do, the mineral water filling room and others who use non-renewable natural resources, mineral treasures, that, on the basis of existing legislation, the state is at peace with its obligations and thus help to make the budget full faster and take less elsewhere if possible. So, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, when I adopt the budget for next year, I'm talking about this problem, and I don't seem to be clear enough. It's a crime to the country's natural wealth, and we're making sure by illegal behavior that these new owners illegally acquire wealth that neither by human nor by God, nor by this law, which we adopt here, belongs to them. So I pray that the citizens of Serbia would understand, when someone buys a cement store, he buys a rotational stove, whether he has acquired the right to a Mayan lapora, to exploit the lapora, that is a special issue. I would like to remind you that one of those Mayan laurels of Beocinska cementara is in the composition of Fruska Gora National Park and that it is used, as it is said, to take away the mineral wealth in Fruska Gora National Park, not to pay what is necessary, not to fill the budget. It can still be the least of the problems, it can be a national disgrace. The next question concerns an important phenomenon, which exists in Serbia, and it also works in a similar way as what I was talking about here. It is the full, uncontrolled expansion of operators, cable distributors of cable TV in Serbia. In particular, I point out that the provisions of the 1997 Law on concessions, the Law on Transport and the links of the federal state of 1993 are being violated. No others have been passed, these laws are in force. I particularly point out that SBB is cable television, the founder of which is Soroshe's foundation, currently has 200,000 users in Serbia. I also want to say that they all use the most diverse infrastructure of public enterprises, telecommunications and other facilities, pillars of postal telecommunications or electricity networks and a whole series of other infrastructure facilities, such as Telekom's telephone channelling in Serbia and many others. They use it, and they don't pay or pay it inadequately. They come from a completely illegal business profit. The state remains deprived of one-off financial resources. It's not the biggest problem in this whole story, although it is a big problem. The biggest problem is the idea, the possibility, of what will happen in two or three years. Let's say, this SBB network, in exploiting this pace and perfecting it now, will be fully able for two or three years to take over, practically, everything that is today in the area of telecommunications in Serbia. So this network will be fully enabled to make free phone calls for anyone who owns any computer in Serbia. That's good. It is not good that the majority of Serbian citizens do not have a computer and that they will have to keep public business alive with increased impulses. We are responsible to say this here today, not because it would be a key contribution to increase the base for the budget, and we are all obliged to recognize the sources for the budget and to point out that, but because there can be great damage to what I'm talking about here, with inconceivable consequences. The next question concerns traffic, I was talking about when we talked about several laws in the area of trade. There is still major traffic in Serbia in the area of catalogical sales, in the area of similar sales, at home address, in various other ways. I warn once again everyone who is in charge of obtaining large funds in this way, that there is no control over how this goods enter the country, that there is no control of the cash, that they are most often engaged. Try to buy something that way, they'll always ask you to pay up front, and then I'll take over or otherwise take over the goods. According to the law of large numbers, about 25 million of these transactions are thought to be made in Serbia over the course of one year. That's a lot of funding. If it's just one dollar, it's $25 million. So, I ask all those responsible, you know who these are, the competent ministries, there are several, trade, finance, inspections, etc., to pay this and similar phenomena due attention and to help all together help to bring budget sources to that level that pay everyone who pays, and that those who pay, pay less than they pay today. It's a fair deal with the citizens. I wanted to point out a few things that I approve and support here. Five hundred million under this section heading to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism is going to improve tourism infrastructure in Serbia. I would especially like to highlight the significance of Golia. I am a People's MP from Cačka, from the Moraviga County, and Golia is mostly located in the territory of the Ivanjica municipality, which is today, unfortunately, the most underdeveloped area in Serbia. It was said before that war when someone had a big problem or when it was supposed to be excommunicated "seen for Ivanjic". Today, the level of average earnings in Serbia is the lowest, practically, because large companies in the confection area have stopped functioning, the Proleter stocking factory is incinerated, the SPIK is in a difficult position, although the strategic factory, the carpet factory, is also on fire. So there's a huge problem in this little town, in this community. Please, Golia is a pearl in Serbia, Golia is an intact, insufficiently explored, untested natural and touristic area. I don't know how these 500 million will be divided, but I am absolutely sure that by building, above all, roads and other necessary infrastructure facilities, this area can ensure that it becomes one of the most important tourist regions in Serbia in the coming years. Golia, it is by everything she represents. The goal is more beautiful than the swimsuit. And the plant and animal world, and potential ski resorts and all that is there, guarantee that these financial resources could be used in the best possible way just by investing most of those funds there. I'm the chairman of the Tourism Committee and all my wounds hurt. Every region in Serbia, and the Old Mountain, and all the spas in Serbia, and many other parts, Vojvodina is one of the most interesting tourist areas in Serbia today, should be invested. I'm going to ask the finance minister not to tamper with these funds every 20,000, so that he can't do anything, to agree that in one year, at least in one region we do something more significant, so that the thing can work as I suggest. Otherwise, we will throw away the money collected from the citizens of Serbia, and that is not our intention. So that's what I wanted to say. Other colleagues talk about what their topic is, and the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr. Jovan Todorovic, spoke about the essence of the budget itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21966	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget law is, in any case, an extremely important law for all citizens of Serbia, but I must express my dissatisfaction with what it is all about. I believe that for the vast majority of Serbian citizens, too, it is a disappointment, because it is essentially a continuation of an economic policy, whose testimony we have seen for several years and which makes citizens quite unsatisfactory, increasingly poorer and more insecure in existence over a long period of time. There is no doubt that the economic policy that began a few years ago, above all, characterizes the lack of interest of the creators and the production policy. There is the most obvious problem in privatisation – the lack of interest in everything that happens through the privatisation process, and here we have very bad trends in privatisation itself. Also, a huge job loss. The minister also announced the loss of some 40,000 new jobs next year. It is obviously one concern for jobs, and that is the biggest problem for Serbian citizens today. The further decline of standards is also seen through the reduction of salaries and wages of Serbian citizens and excessive fiscal burdens on our economy. I would say these are the characteristics of the economic policy that has been implemented so far, with most Serbian citizens unhappy. We in the SRS expected that the government would finally come out with a much more realistic draft budget. This budget proposal means close to 480 and some billion. If the previous one was about 400 billion dinars, it's actually increased by about 20 percent. The government and Minister Dinkic expect citizens to tighten the belt, and he allowed himself to increase the budget by 20 per cent inappropriately. In essence, the question arises how will citizens and businesses manage to fill this budget and if it is worth working at all today, do business in Serbia. This is the basic issue most businessmen face today in Serbia. As far as the economic policy objectives for 2006 are concerned, I think they are obviously ineffective, if it were a list of some good wishes, and I would comment on these few of the most important inflations of 9%. We had this projection in the previous year, for 2005, and it's already twice as big. To go to the MPs with such a projection of inflation seems unrealistic. Inflation is growing year after year, and it is, above all, the result of a short-term economic policy conducted today by the Serbian government. The restrictive monetary policy, announced in Mr Mladjan Dinkic's speech, certainly means a further drop in economic activity and there is no reason for optimism in a future period. From the beginning, the big problem was the policy issue of the course, which will be expressed in the next period, i.e. so far, and there will be major problems with the external trade deficit. And there Mr. Mladjan Dinkic announced the improvement, the fall of the foreign trade deficit. With this policy of course directly affecting our exports, there is no talk of reducing that deficit, and if we take into account that a week ago we passed the Foreign Trade Act that abolishes all those subsidies that the exporters had still liberalises our market, which means that it suits the importers, I really think it's incorrect to go out with these estimates. I think it's another argument in my claim that this is just a list of good wishes. And in particular, I would like to stress that when the Foreign Trade Act was passed, it was necessary to bring forward the accompanying legislative solutions that would help the economy, at least those accompanying solutions that allow the EU, if you didn't have the courage to move on, and with such concern for the economy in any case, it proves itself and shows no interest in all the problems of Serbia's citizens. As far as economic growth is concerned by 5%, it is also a matter of wanting to show the good will of the minister and government to serve debts in time, because it is some economic growth that would guarantee that in the coming period all our obligations towards foreign debt will be met. It may be feasible, it depends essentially on some other things, and at least on industrial production. We have a modest industrial production. In this year it depended on the service, in the previous year on agricultural production, regardless of how we failed to rework and further strengthen our economy and strengthen economic growth. However, it reflected significantly on economic growth in 2004. What is obvious, we have a low gross social product and potential economic growth depends on many factors that are difficult to predict at this time. I would highlight what the shortcomings of this budget, this draft budget and what the SRS has been up to in economic policy that is being implemented for a few years. These are major problems in the privatisation process. The government boasts about the number of privatised enterprises, and the truth is very different. There are 600, 700 large companies left, with close to 400 to 500,000 workers in these companies. Companies that have been privatised so far have mostly had a small number of workers. Even the amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act has not significantly changed the problem of restructuring. He's been armed for a year, but the government is failing to achieve and privatise these companies. The big problem is the investments presented by Mr Mladjan Dinkic. First of all, they come through privatisation. There's very little green investment, there's no reason for any optimism. And when it comes to the financial market, we are witnessing that there is a lobby that prevents the adoption of financial laws that would potentially raise funds from our citizens and help the economy, in this difficult transition period, emerges and becomes as liquid as possible. There is great dissatisfaction with Serbian radicals and with the proposal for subsidies. Subsidies, first of all, in agriculture either fall from budget to budget or remain the same, and are effectively reduced by inflation. So that's what the eyes are, and the situation in agriculture is very bad. The liberalisation of imports, which will be achieved by this law on foreign trade, will be even worse and it was necessary for these funds to be significantly higher to support agriculture. In the economy, we also have a problem, yes, the government reduces the funds for businesses through subsidies. I think it is necessary to move faster to privatise large enterprises and restructuring, not to reduce subsidies, because the fault of the disputed privatisation lies first and foremost in the government. The responsibility is on them, not on management. Just a few more words about the microcredits the government predicted. The funds are extremely modest, it's about about a billion dinars. It is 4,000 jobs in the projection, and Minister Dinkic announced 40,000 newly fired in the following year, not to mention that we have nearly 1,000 jobs. In the area of employment, nothing special has changed with this draft budget. Corruption continues to rule in Serbia. Corruption and legal uncertainty may be the biggest problems, and it seems to me to be the easiest solution if you have a good will. In this bill, what fell into my eye is that the Anti-Corruption Council has some 30% less funds than it had in the 2005 budget. Allow me, in the end, a little patriotism bar. The maritime district received a 50% increase compared to the previous year, while all other districts had 100 to 150% increase in these funds. I honestly don't know the real reason why that is, but I think the minister should still go to the MPs and explain the big difference between the funds that were designed in this budget for individual districts. All in all, another chance to have one more offensive development policy has been missed. We obviously cannot expect this government and two years of this government, two years of this assembly majority is enough to show Serbian citizens what they can do. That is what they are dissatisfied with and it is no wonder that most Serbian citizens today are in favour of some new snap elections, and the minister did not anticipate the elections. They'll be safe with a budget like this, and we'll be in those demands and fighting to get to the new government and the new finance minister as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21968	I'm announcing a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21969	Good afternoon. On your behalf and on behalf of me, I congratulate the team who won the European Championship at 2:1 in Zagreb 15 seconds ago. My congratulations and your congratulations. The word has a folk MP Paja Momcilov, a total of time available for another 35 minutes; let Petar Jojic be prepared, then Darko Glisic, and Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21970	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for this delay, however, it is a perfectly normal situation, because in the way we do today I do not remember that it has ever been done in parliament. Namely, what it's about. Because of this haste and agglomeration of a large number of laws that we must discuss urgently, I was at a meeting of the Health Committee which must amend the proposed laws. We have worked for a long time and we have to continue this work, so we are completely prevented and paralyzed and we cannot participate in this debate. What I'd like to say right now is one interesting thing. The budget is said to be the most important law to be passed in parliament, and yesterday when Mr. Minister here had his own exposés, then we saw a sad situation, because at first there were barely 50 MPs, who killed themselves from work and who were very concerned about doing it effectively and well. What I'd like to say is, there are some things about the budget that we need to point out. We in the SRS are first protesting this kind of work in parliament. We are surprised that there are no more MPs here to speak of the most important document to be adopted. Furthermore, what we point out as something that we think is absolutely not allowed is that the budget, which is made in one year, is bound to the law packages, systemically. And it is said that it is necessary for the budget to be good for the adoption of systemic health laws, which will allow for a reduction of public spending. First of all, it's not necessary at all, it's not true. It is known to everyone that part of the budget is the Health Insurance Fund's plan and that a simple change in the plan of the Health Insurance Fund can also make spending. There is no need to rush and bind system laws from health care, as a prerequisite that will allow us to meet IMF requirements. Here we often get incorrect information in the media, so we get information that the IMF is asking pensioners to get paid, and then Mrs Sorsa says -- I'm telling Serbian citizens, the IMF is not against pensioners and it's not to cut pensions, she said on her way out of Belgrade. Someone released the voice, the budget and the health laws and the insurance law, it's connected, it can't do it without each other. It's not true, it's a shame that the government's responsible members and responsible minister claim it, and that's not true at all! Something interesting. We heard an exposé, if you listened to Mr. Secretary carefully yesterday, you'd think we were in a highly developed country with some difficulties, but here's the sun being born very much, the day has already begun and the sun has made us very warm. So, the worst we've been through is one million. If a man walks the streets, if he just hangs out with people who are most of our people, then he'll see a completely different picture. It should be said that 32% here in this country are unemployed and more. It's said, well, there are in the gray economy. Yes, there are, but look now and cross our streets and look at those gigs, powerful, on the main street. And it's been said to be a relic of a former regime and system. What is it today? Where did this great crowd come from, on the streets of Belgrade and other cities of Serbia? Is anyone asking that question? So 20% are absolutely poor by the strictest criteria that are applied in the world today, and how many are those who are and both are in that area of poverty and that we are not talking. As a doctor, I have one more thing to remind you of. The Serbian people, in general, are seen today as being burdened with diseases more than ever. We have the highest mortality rate due to cardiovascular disease and stroke. Since 2000, our people's mortality has increased since this number one killer, not that it's been stopped, but has been increased. If you're reading the press, look, on September 1st at NIN, Caroline Jinger gives some of her observations to our health care system. The title of the article is – It is time to heal Serbian healthcare. What does Caroline Jinger say? Based on the World Bank survey on the poverty research project in Serbia, 45% of citizens failed to report to a doctor last year and had medical needs! That's what the World Bank Director in Belgrade says. And he says why they didn't answer. Because they didn't have enough material resources to pay what was necessary to pay! Furthermore, the same person says that on bribery and health corruption, he leaves, according to World Bank estimates, between 2% and 4% of gross national income. Please, 2 to 4%. There was a ceremony here, steamed up as it can be, about World Poverty Day. That lady was a guest here. We from the SRS weren't there. Let me just read to you the record of what it says: "Caroline Jinger concluded her presentation by highlighting key messages – there were no significant changes in the level of poverty in the previous period in Serbia, but economic growth left some gaps, which conditioned that a large number of people live in the conditions of extreme poverty." A large number lives! It's not, it's clear to everyone what it is. "The state of poverty is more pronounced in the village than in the city. There is a need for greater access to social assistance organisations." There is a need for greater access to social assistance! Look out! "It is necessary to ensure that economic growth is sustainable. A reliable social protection system needs to be made. "Social protection system! "It is necessary to allow wider access to the healthcare system, as well as to the education system." Widen the system! What have we heard from Mr Dinkic? We need to fuck 1.3% of gross national income consumption. Where are we gonna fuck? Health and school. Jinger says one thing, they nod here and admire; we heard that the participants admired, that they said it was just like that. But Mr. Dinkic has another story. We're going to fuck what's social -- health care and schooling. How will you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, be part of this people? What are the comments, sorry? I'd like to hear some comments. If that is the case, you are clearly told – 0.55% of gross national income will be fucked by health care, and how: from health costs, which are sick, compensation for death and travel expenses. Imagine now a poor, sick people, who are given the right to all these costs by law, and we boast that we are allowing the new legal regulation of those rights to the people – and now we are having sex. How can that connect with each other? How can it be coherent, to take, to a poor, sick people at a time when he needs the little money you've given so far? What's this about? We see that the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund was proposed in 2006. In that report, it stands well, we are divided, to achieve a surplus. Look out, the people are sick, 45% of the people don't go to doctors because they can't pay what they need, and the health care has surpluses. The minister says clearly, we're going to go on a surplus to reduce health care separations next year. Oh, for God's sake! We have a small national income, let's let the minister tell me, of course, he's gone, he won't tell us, does Albania have more gross national income than we do? Maybe she does, too. I wouldn't be surprised if she did. When you're looking at how much we're detaching on the head of the health care population, you're gonna fuck it. What did you try? First, to blow up pensioners, to quickly free them from such large pensions. But it's slowed down, thanks to socialist amendments. When you have failed, now on the second, unprotected category – you will hit on sick people. It's your way of leading politics and society. It can be said like this: yes, you radicals are just criticizing, and where you would find that 1.3% gross national income. If corruption had already gone from 2% to 4% of gross national income, if someone had controlled it and had not allowed it, we would have had the resources available. Furthermore, whether it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to spend three million dollars on the reconstruction of this building, which is next to the government, which flashes the most in Belgrade, driving the statisticians out of the dedicated building rooms, with several kilometers of divorced lines of receptive computers, in order for the ministry to spread and garden. So, out of those three million we would pay off all the hips that are needed for one year for Serbia's health care. Thus, waste exists and exists on all sides. The Fund itself is one source of waste, and when we talk about these things about amendments, we'll prove it to you. I want to say one more thing, this kind of math and this kind of dance is illegal. At the meeting of the Governing Board of the Republic Institute of 24 October 2005, I hold the minutes, a balanced financial plan was adopted. Three days after that, at someone's moment, we have a surplus. This number-playing thing, it's a shame, it's scandalous! We'll tell you why later. Therefore, there is another additional motive that needs to be said. The Bureau's statute clearly states, I will tell you which member and number, the revenues and expenditures in the financial plan must be balanced. The law is broken -- who cares what it says in the statutes and the budget law doesn't matter at all, we have a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21971	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Mr. Jojic, I apologize, you are the next speaker from the SRS, but before that there is another speaker, Mr. Zivojin Stefanovic, and then Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21972	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unlike the introductions and the authorised representative of the SPS, who has presented a series of commendations here, may be right from his point of view, Mr Todorovic, most likely will support the draft budget, but unlike him, I would say a few concrete remarks on the draft budget. I wouldn't talk about some if I had the opportunity to, as a representative of a local self-government, meet with the minister and talk about problems that have been going on for two years in the budget, and not get rid of them. Given that the current government is taking care of budget and budget spending and budget implementation only in municipalities where they participate in government and where they are not present, the budget is not realised in these environments. Most likely part of the surplus is from these pairs, passed on for several years and not realized. My basic remark, given that I come from southern Serbia, is two things: firstly, which reduces the funds of economic subsidies; secondly, as regards the de facto draft budget law, the Development Fund is abolished. It's the only institution that south of Serbia and the woodland economy had some kind of gap. It was, exactly, an incentive fund and an incentive fund through which Serbia made some kind of balanced or balanced development of our regions. By removing these funds from the budget – the neglected economy has failed for these four years to restructure and prepare for sale – the whole textile industry will go under bankruptcy, and by this revolution, 12,500 people. The question arises whether this kind of budget can be developed and in that part, I do not agree with our introduction on this subject. The fact that at this meeting, the law will form a fund for development, which will be transformed into a stock company, does not mean anything to us, because the next day it will be turned into a stock bank and only this lending and its preparation for some kind of sale or promotion of some production will bring us nothing new or better. In Article 12. The proposal for this law provides that local self-governments can provide for funds for next year, a mass of funds for personal income, a mass paid in September this year, increased by 9% and times 12. We who come from local self-government know what position workers of state authorities are in. It is a position of regret, disfigured, with the lowest personal income, and this way with 9% on this basis does not mean anything; there is no new employment, and in these small communities and small municipalities, only in these public enterprises and public administration comes to some employment. I can tell you in Leskovac, for example "Health" sold or stolen, in two or three years as sold, was fired close to 1,000 people, and received only 14. These workers are required to be effective, to work legally and not subject to corruption and bribery. With a material position like this, I think we're doing the opposite. By contrast, when we underestimate their work and their position, the draft budget in the part of the division with the president of the Serbian state provides for the National Office. You don't seem to see what the National Office is doing from Belgrade, which is across the street. Does the government see that there's a parallel organ of government, a new state? These aren't funds for the People's Office, for their out-of-state departments, because the out-of-state departments have been pushed out by DS headquarters. There are no national flags in some outposts, but the flags of the party, or DS. It's a parallel organ in the districts. Then let's get rid of the counties, because now everybody's going to complain, considering they're still the party in power, even though they're playing the opposition. Because the judiciary is still theirs, public large enterprises are theirs, inspections are theirs, and then at a call from the National Office, not the county, inspection and everyone else intervenes, some budget assistance is shared and all in favor of the DS. If you want to give them funds for their election campaign or future election campaign, then increase them in that part of the item where the political party is divided, so say it is the best party, perspective, pro-European. Then give the money to know that this is funded for that purpose, and not, apparently, for the functioning of the National Office, which was built by the president of the state, because this is how the funds are poured out, and we give the legal authorities of the administration an opportunity: September this year times 9% for the former year. I think you're cutting yourself into the branch you're sitting on. In this way, the district will be, I say, self-destructed. When it comes to the second division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I mean, specifically, the detachments for water supply facilities. I once spoke to this speaker on the subject, and now I want to say next. It is amazing that this directorate is the centre of alienated power, that in the draft budget, and even in the explanation, it is not said of these billions and 300 million that are allocated from the budget, and plus two billion more revenue from the fee for unused water, which will be built by the facilities. It turns out that only the director and his associates know what facilities he's going to build, who he's going to help, who he's not going to help, and who he doesn't have a relationship with in that department can't start or finish. I was specifically talking about two objects, it's a water system of Barje, regional and Rzav. When it comes to the Barje system, for two years there is no realisation of the budget for the facility, and that is where the government cut 200 million. Last year 100 million and this year 100 million. So, last year, a tender was launched, a tender was deliberately brought down from the Water Directorate, coming on December 31st, the funds shut down. This year, 100 million are being re-planned, and now the tender has been opened by the Water Directorate, which has no rights. There is no Parliament's decision to build it, and now it's the end of the year again, it's in the process of appeal, it's complaining again, it's going to go through December again, and 100 million for that facility will be abolished again, and we are the object, the honored ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the greatest sanctions and blockades, which has led to more than 80% construction, and since that famous revolution on October 5th, nothing is done on that facility except for some of the funds provided by local self-government. That's why I can't support the draft budget because it has to be said why funds are being given and who controls the funds spent, who controls the Water Directorate, whether the Director can decide, while I'm here I won't build it or when I'm not being built then. Here's a concrete example of how municipalities that are not, I say, conditionally, yours are belittled. I asked a question yesterday and I apologize for using this pay phone, whether to participate, to give a quorum or not. The European Agency for the Reconstruction of Local Self-Government has decided to speed up the construction of an industrial project in Leskovac with a million euros. We took a million-euro loan from one side of the bank, it's Raiffeisen Bank, but now it's asked the local self-government minister, Mr. Loncar, to sign it on behalf of the government. These aren't budget funds. Two days already we have no answer, why doesn't he want to sign it, because if there's a budget inspection in Leskovac, let him control the budget, let the thieves be arrested, but the city, the municipality and that facility can't close. It depends on the will of a minister. If he'd given me an answer, maybe I wouldn't have spoken like this today on this subject. In education, the Ministry of Education has decided that the Republic participates with 70% in financing the burned medical school. To this day, the Ministry has not fulfilled its obligation. If you know that, I don't know, so this is where the G17 plus leads the state, I apologize. A little while ago, a colleague said – we from G17 plus do not let youth go to Europe. Well, if that's yours, we'll join it. This budget is brought by the Assembly, not by an individual party. Your minister can suggest that. Please, until five days ago, no funds were paid and there was no heating, until Monday there was a restrictions, classes were cut to 30 minutes, not because of the strike, but because the Ministry did not fulfil its obligation. When that comes to mind, what I've put forward, a few facts, it gets the impression, it wakes up with the government, there's going to be a budget realized, and then there's no surplus. There are several municipalities that are not with you and on such a single savings, very perfidious, therefore, by not paying the funds or by delaying you make part of the surplus for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21973	Based on the party's mention, deputy chairman of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21974	Here, I'm using the right to reply, because really what I heard from the previous speaker, I just can't believe that a man like that can say for this pay phone, and I'm going to, first of all, talk to the citizens of Leskovci when I'm talking about this, because they know very well what we're talking about. I really cannot believe that the new poverty is being fought by those who have contributed significantly to the rise of this poverty. I can't believe that high inflation was fought by those who had inflation 313,663.558% in the year they were in power. I really can't believe that the people who brought in, whose authorities at the time led to the complete collapse of the monetary system and the complete collapse of these companies, whose poor workers we are now fighting for, and we're talking about the textile industry in Leskovec, can now get off this phone booth, not blinking, to talk about how they are now defending those workers. There is no way out in the politics that was then and it is quite clear to the citizens of Leskovci. That's what's true. I'm not going to talk any further about how poverty can be reduced, that's what I'm going to say at some other time, because it's not a chance for a replica right now, but what I want to say about Leskovac Municipality, in which the gentleman, who spoke for a moment, in some significant places, let me say a few things. Here the gentleman advocates that there is no need to limit salaries and the number of employees in local self-government. I will tell you that from the budget of Leskovac municipality close to 50 percent is spent on wages. What remains for the citizens of Leskovec and for what is the budget really intended for? Is that the development budget you're supposed to be talking about? So instead of standard 15 to 16 percent, how much by standard, over 50 percent is spent. It's really something that I'm ashamed of, which was not mentioned by the previous speaker, which is, I don't like to use that word, but now I have to say, because it's proven by some of the authorities that were investigating the Leskovac municipality, it's about stealing social aid from the Leskovac municipality. So, what did the employed gentlemen, close associates of the ruling structure in Leskovac Municipality, do? She was taking social aid from the poorest, so those funds they identified as social aid. They simply found some poor people who were in a state of welfare, forced them to sign that they received some 3,000 dinars, and the remaining 27 thousand were gone. That's what happens in Leskovac municipality. I just can't believe that someone who represents the local authorities in this community can even talk about this. Let's at least hear about it. I simply will not let them fight for the rights of the poor they, I apologize, the gentleman is not among those who are detained and, of course, I did not call him directly, but if some people from the nearest environment, including the head of finance and the municipality, then at least there is moral and political responsibility for those who are in power in Leskovec, that even if you are silent about the socially endangered, about the poor, etc. As for the water system "Barje", the gentleman who spoke is involved in the construction of this water system, perhaps 25 years old. Why didn't he make it already? There's even one joke about it. Leskovci tells the joke; as they are known, unlike the citizens of Paris or London, because they never built the water system "Barje" and the swimming pools, which were finally built in 2000, after their government. So, come on, please, let's not turn the truth, not to replace the thesis and try to really do what we say – we are, we are responsible, but now we are ready to support the development of this country, now we want to participate in it, now there are good directions and we are ready to support these directions and we are going to participate in it, as, indeed, some people, colleagues and MPs from the SPS are doing as correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21975	The interpretation is wrong, MP Zivojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21976	The more the south, the sadder and instead of, ma'am, discussing it with us down there, you opened this stage here, you became European and you don't mind, we with our dialect, etc. You've started a lot of Belgrade, so you can pro-Europeanly, etc., and on these topics that you've presented, I'm ready to face you in Leskovac, wherever you want and whenever you want. You run away from it, you hide in Belgrade, and you dictate from here. You know well that the textile industry of Leskovec, as well as the workers know it in those sanctions and in the blockades, when Krasic was a minister, even a hundred times more money was given than now, with this development budget, the textile factories exported, and the workers entered and left the factory. Now you hit the locks and now they have to go bankrupt, it's yours. Secondly, the pools are over, not when you've been through the October revolution. The Barje facility is 80 percent done. From that so notorious red-black coalition and local self-government, so poor, the factory was built and now needs to be completed. But you're not saying that your director of the Water Directorate spends more on trips. Look, last year there were over 100 trips out of the country; he went all the way to Brazil to sell our water. I don't know who you're gonna sell it to, 'cause "Prince Milos" is sold. And you know that well and your family lives well from that textile, you will be educated from that textile. Unfortunately, my friend is your father, he died, he was a successful director, you know it well and textiles was a branch with pride. Right now when you want to join the EU, you will close it, and it has hired more people than our entire industry. You're talking about "Health", which your government and Doss sold for 3.2m euros, and on that day there were 12m euros in finished products, drugs, and not to talk any further. The questions I'm asking Minister Bubalu, he says it's been a long time. Prior to that, the Martian says – the first privatisation we will review will be "Health". Furthermore, when you talk about these abuses, do not fantasize about the pay phone, first or second after Goran Cvetanovic, as president of the Assembly, these are the authorities of the administration and they will answer. This must not be the subject of the talks of this assembly and cannot be the right of one minister not to sign or sign, may the budgetary inspection do its part and all the arrests that are criminals. You've been asking me to be arrested since 2000, so you said there's nothing there, or he's a exaggerated criminal, or he's an honest man. Long ago you wanted, even the former president of the municipality spoke – we wait every day to arrest him. You're judging us today after this pay phone. Who gave you that right? Is your president in court? You've appointed a prosecutor, your famous G17 Plus expert (the one we've expressed disagreement here to be) to protect someone and chase us. Come on, close it all up, but don't say things in your head that don't stand here. As the inspection is there, I ask for the inspection to come to the Water Directorate in Serbia as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21977	Of course, the authorities will do their job and we will do ours. The People's Messenger Darko Glisic has the word, then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to tell my predecessor Mr. Stefanovic, Zoran Krasic will be the minister again after the next election and don't worry, there will be good investments in Leskovac again. Listening to the discussion of a co-worker from G17 plus, I now understand why Tomislav Nikolic got three times as much as Boris Tadic in the second round in Leskovic. It seems to me that in the next election, it will be even more pronounced, and not just in Leskovac. As far as the budget itself is concerned, a budget for the Republic of Serbia should be something that will enable citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have a healthy environment in which they could meet some of their basic needs, that the budget to hide the economy, that the budget will try to solve what is the country's burning problem, which is a large number of unemployed. Of course, in the first sentence when Minister Dinkic says he is satisfied with the budget, I believe that citizens can say that after his satisfaction with this budget they will be able to knock on happiness, because if Mladjan Dinkic is satisfied with the budget, it means it will not be good for the citizens. I believe that this budget is not developmental and that it will not do any good to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the predecessors from the ruling coalition said one interesting thing. When he discussed it, he said there won't be many new jobs, but there will be quality jobs. I don't understand what that means to him, when we look at this budget by division, and I see how much the agency has, the divorce, what you haven't invented, where you're going to hire your party comrades, then I understand that it's going to be quality for you and your party thinkers and for the amount of pay that's going to be for the number of jobs, but the common people really have nothing to do with it. I can't even see that agriculture will bring something good, because I remember the discussion in front of the budget for this year that we're in and it's said that it's really going to give wings to agriculture, that there's going to be a lot of investment, that agriculture is really going to flourish. Get out of Belgrade and you'll see from those basic things that farmers need, and that's oil, that every pump will find a kilometre line of our citizens dealing with agricultural production and waiting for oil. I can give you an example from the community I come from. A little -- a little bit, every night in Ubba, there are ranks, waiting for people to pour oil so they can process the country and do the basic jobs they have before the end of the year. Of course, the minister did not tell us what might be most interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in which range the euro will move next year. You can't say that exactly, but at least we could figure out if it was going to be those scary 115 dinars as those who say they dictate everything to us or not. It depends because Jelasic will sell the villa, nor did he agree for a million euros. I think it's something the minister should explain, first of all, to the public. It's pretty clear to us MPs. I see that some MPs of the ruling majority are also clear, given fellow Stefanovic and his exposure. When we look at the divisions, of course I can't skip the president of the Republic. It's just that I can't get around the division that provides for the funds to him. I wish he was the president of all citizens, and he wasn't. I would like the funds allocated to the President of the Republic to indeed go to the President of the Republic for his activities and for the fulfillment of his pre-election promises, but our President of the Republic could freely join Goran Bregovic and his orchestra "for weddings and funerals", as he except for weddings, funerals and games does nothing but work in this country. It looks around, though. He promised 500,000 jobs in the campaign. Let's see how open it is. He promised to be an ambassador to the Serbian economy. He promised that with him at the head of the Republic of Economy to flourish, there would be economic arrangements from month to month. Let me see where your business arrangements are. He promised stability in the state. Let's see where that stability is. Just as all political parties agree on some problems, specifically about the Serb exit to Kosovo, we all agree that they should not go out, and before the elections, Boris Tadic says they should go out. Here, now around the Resolution, we all agree that the wording of the resolution should look about perhaps the biggest problem and the burning issues that weigh us down, which is Kosovo and Metohija. He's got some resolutions again, some of his visions, he's not coming to the assembly session. So all he does is play games. Although, he's making posters around Belgrade that his activists are pretty about some representatives of the SRS, but I guess he meant it himself, because Boris Tadic is the biggest liar. All of what I listed as Boris Tadic was not fulfilled and therefore Boris Tadic is the biggest liar in Serbia. Of course, I can't skip the division for the President of the Republic, because funds are also given to the People's Office. The minister didn't predict it by economic classifications, but that's why there's a reason it's going to be for the People's Office. I don't just know what the legal basis is for the establishment of that office and on which they managed to make this National Office something that is an integral part of the President of the Republic and something that helps citizens. I've never seen that National Office help anything. As someone who belongs to that profession, I have to touch it, and I'll finish it quickly, in order to leave it to my fellow Members of Parliament for a while, as far as the Republic Geodetic Institute is concerned. You mentioned here how they make their incomes. Minister, since you're already in that government, you're asking the government to abolish the regulation it brought during the Minister of the Forest. Much greater revenues will be made by the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Catastres to accomplish by the regulations that were before, because you have now abolished them all. Private geodetic services do everything. You're in school now, you're educateing someone on state spending, he comes to work at a state geodetic firm, and there he just sits there ink and ink, nothing else works. Of course, there's still a subject I'd like to mention. In the end, just one in 30 seconds. I'll have one parliamentary question and I'm asking you not to count it on me in time, but just 30 seconds about something else. I understand that between you and Minister Ilic there was quite a problem. Obviously, you have calmed Minister Ilic, that Godoljub Karic has calmed you, that there is a three-axle established there, that there is no more attack between you. Maybe you'll even go to the election together, who knows? When you could go to Japan together, maybe you could go to the elections together. Given that the often mentioned purchase of MPs, councilors, both in parliament and across Serbia, I must say that you from G17 have introduced this fashion first, both in the republican parliament and in the local parliament. In the Ub municipality there were elections in 2002. You didn't even participate in the election, now you have three board members, because you bought three board members. You bought that one, I'll tell you what company it's from and what it's called. His name is Zoran Sitarica, he even led your board until recently, and now he's vice president of the board. He buried the Boston shoe factory in Ub, even took the sink from that factory to his own home, stole it. Today there are 200 workers on the street, they can't pay off the receipts they've been promised, they can't pay off the basic financial expenditures that are mandatory to them, and he's running politics, he says, "I'm an expert on G17". He buried the factory. If you are all such experts, and I am counting on those in the bar to be the mirror of you who lead them at the republican level and vice versa, I believe that these elections take as long as it takes today and I would ask everyone who has even the morale, I see that it appears in some MPs, that it does not vote for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that it allows for the elections to be held as soon as possible. Now I would like to ask a specific parliamentary question. I request an interpretation from the Ministry of Finance whether municipal funds are allowed, the municipal budget is being presented in a bank, and the interest is being rewarded by the associates of whoever is holding the funds? Namely, the president of Ub municipality has been shelling out municipal funds in the bank, and the interest is shared as he thinks it should, mostly to members, among other things, of your party, give and reward some of his associates. So I'm asking the finance ministry officially to interpret me, whether it's in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules on how to behave and how to conduct the budget, as prescribed by the finance ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21979	I didn't realize if it was a threat or a promise to Mr. Krasic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21980	What I said about Mr. Krasic, it's a reality and you'll see it after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21981	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, so Zoran Krasic has it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21982	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the Republic of Serbia should reflect one balance between income and expenditure. However, this balance has not been reached by the draft budget. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first part, I'd just like to point out that I don't understand, because I think there's something behind this that can be hidden. The use of goods and services is 22 billion dinars. I ask the question of what kind of goods are these and what kind of services are they? If these are services, let us see if they can be read somewhere and whether they can present themselves to the MPs of the National Assembly. If this amount were to be allocated to farmers, farmers could buy about 8,000 medium-class tractors, and we could skip those special services one year, because we have previous years of services. But there is no word about where these services were; who provided these services, whether they were ordinary services, under contract, under what contract, were they special services, whether they were special services in the country and abroad, whether they were special services for individual parties, etc.? What I'd like to mention again, on page 8. - The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. You see how much funds are allocated here - 41,274,000 for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. Does this mean that we should have one prosecutor's office that should be extended to the UN tribunal and that it pursues Serbs in Serbia, to prosecute those who defended our country during attacks and occupations? We know that some at that time, after October 5, collected numerous data, using data even BIA, or MUP, public and state security, collected data to accuse our innocent citizens and those who contributed to defending the country at the most difficult moment with the 19 most powerful countries in the world, facing it. I don't think there was any basis in this part for predicting this kind of item for these expenditures. How many of them are working there? What's their salary? What will they do, when it is closed, so to speak, and the UN tribunal? Of course we expect the release of Professor Vojislav Seselj, because there is no relevant evidence why he should be in The Hague. The charges against him were written by those who are here and we know who took part in it, in that shameful indictment that has no proof. He's been giving fire speeches, that's all. When you look at the beneficiaries of the budget on the side of the 12th -- media co-operation office, 44 million. When you look at the same side – the Office for Joining the European Union, 49 million; the Anti-Corruption Council 10 million; the Staff Management Service 5.8 million. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense have indeed been cut down here, to this extent, that they will not be able to perform their function for which they were founded in our country. These are the most significant resources in our country. If you compare the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior with the Ministry of Finance, you will immediately see a significant difference because the budget of the Ministry of Finance is too large. The finance ministry envisions services under contract, current services and special services of about 700 million. What kind of favors are these? It's really not clear?- I'm sorry. It is not clear why the Ministry of Finance does not control local self-government and budget users. I'll let you know, Panchevo municipality has nearly 2.5 billion dinars for the current year. There was no budget inspection, we don't know where the money is. We hear some money was deposited in some banks! Decisions have been made for investments, sewerage, plumbing, gasification, school equipment, institutions. There's no money! Who gave the money and what bank? If it is true that we have a large number of tax officials and officials, and I have come to the conclusion that among thousands of people who charge taxes, and that we only have 27 budgetary inspectors, I have to tell you that the Ministry of Finance has to file a report on local self-government, especially public enterprises, to check where the money is used under the Budget System Act. You'll find everything and everything on the ground and local self-government, but it's deliberately bypassed. On the other hand, you have the means to protect the environment, but mostly the funds go to employees' salaries. They don't go where they're supposed to go. Take Pancheva, the worst black spot, every day dies on dozens of people. You see how many cemeterys Panchevo now have, you'll be amazed. I don't know how much funding the Ministry of Finance provides for disabled people, for pensioners in this municipality, because Panchevo deserves priority. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus, was in Panchev, promised and said he needed a lot of funding, he even said a 360m-euro figure. Let's see where the other funds are spent. I will always remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and the finance minister that you have to see what happens to Panchev, because a city of 130,000 people is dying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21983	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21984	I'm going to use this time and really try not to repeat those attitudes I've repeated many times, when at least in this session of the National Assembly on the agenda there was a budget, a rebalancing or any other point of public finance. So, I'm going to skip this virtual surplus, the concept of how public revenues are coming in, so why don't I say what needs to reflect the state of public debt and how to regulate it. What can be determined about this great book is that here we have a practical report on the work of the government and the ministries for 2005 and 2004, and we have one projection, one plan, can be said, a short-term plan for the next, about three years. However, he now has the name of a memorandum, where you can see what the government is planning to do in the coming period. What is really going through all these acts is one continuity of politics that is practically not seen here by what measures the Government in the area where public finances can influence, where they are asked, can act incentivising the development of economic flows in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that, since the start of this government's mandate, even the previous ones, there's always talk about opening new jobs, new investment cycles, foreign investment, so thank you for how much money it is from abroad, but in practice there's a reverse process going on. So much investment is probably supposed to lead to employment. However, we have the process of firing. Then one of the G17 Plus MPs comes out here and reads how this government guarantees something to the pensioners. Of course, I had to say that by any chance last night you saw on TV "Politics" one show in which former Minister of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, Marija Todorovic, who hates radicals as a member of the Management Board, presented all the views of the SRS when he was the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, with tables (expertically, as you like), charts. Of course, you prefer everything to grow than fall, but she pointed to an even more difficult position as a pensioner. To avoid confusion and to say that Dinkic only attacks radicals, whenever you oppose the IMF and their policy, their ultimate demands, count on support from the SRS. Whenever you blindly follow the interests and demands of the IMF, count on the SRS to attack you. Count on you to be hit hard by the SRS. Why? Because everything that we've criticised you and pointed out where to do what needs to be done has proved true. Of course, they can never be avoided in one budget and the funds being managed as investment funds invested by the state; they probably always go to some facilities of municipal infrastructure, traffic, etc. In that sense, it is necessary to interpret those items that should reflect the investment investments of the state, but they could be minimal, strictly controlled, dedicated, and not as you stated in this act, where a wish is made. There you wrote down the total mass of funds so much and so much, there'll be rumors that there isn't, there isn't. So, one good wish, one nice commitment. Those funds, it's normal to be private sources and state sources. But the dominant form of our investment investments over the past 20, 30 years, in addition to these foreign loans, was the emissions of fund-making, it's not a matter of technique, how the funds that started out were social resources. These social resources don't exist. And after that crazy privatisation, Vlahovic, none of the expectations of privatisation were realized; neither was productivity increased, nor was the need for goods on our market satisfied, nor was employment greater. All negative results to each other. It is really becoming dangerous if foreign banks and budgets depend on the minister to be the only means of investment in the Republic of Serbia, because we oppose it. You simply did not give in to the economy to gain its own investment capacity and to stimulate some measures of that investment. Next, there's a lot of items, and when it comes to amendments, then we'll do it in detail. But I can't understand the government. You passed the Civil Protection Act a month ago. Now you've left the People's Office, and you're about to name it, name it. Now the President of the Republic has 62 employees. Take these sections and these items to see where and where there are as many employees in which organ. And that's where you decided completely; which agency, which these things, and some of them you didn't even put into the budget. That's what I have to tell you, in particular, that's what we're going to consider. You didn't even know that the law was passed in the meantime and that there were commitments to the budget, not only that there was a difference in the name, name, but also the jurisdiction of the business which, in the end, define the very essence and position that is set aside for a state body. It's not a matter of going to rebalancing now. If good judgments are made at the beginning, then of course, it probably always takes that rebalancing at the end of the year. It defines the rule of conduct of many who depend on the budget. Of course, I am not going to comment on the provisions of the draft budget law, and especially after Article 7, where we have even certain provisions that are not only the opposite of the Constitution, but are in contrast with the laws that this National Assembly passed two months ago. We'll talk about it more beautifully. As a representative of the opposition side, I express the position of the SRS that we cannot support this kind of budget. In the meantime, only a number of reasons we cannot support this budget, because we have no right to forget quickly. It's dangerous to do things that are able to quickly forget. We also remember stockings on the head, kidnappings of the National Bank and crisis headquarters. I will remind you of all: both Cyprus and Wolf Minic and all possible things that have happened; how you have formed electricity prices, how you have reached Switzerland and other pension formulas, and on health care Mr. Momchilov and this team of doctors in the course of the third point of the agenda, united debate, to the point of explaining the item by item, what you do and how you do. Don't follow the IMF policy, because this policy inevitably draws military boots and the destruction of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21985	Please be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21986	When it is in detail and whenever you cry, I will explain to you with concrete facts and evidence the correctness of all SRS positions when it comes to public finances. If you don't believe us, come out with your attitudes and go to the stands in some village and explain to the villagers what you've been telling us, how they're doing best, and hear how it's going to be. It's impossible for you to boast so much, and polls only say 0.9%.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21987	Thank you for believing in the polls, and we need to trust the timer that's ahead of us. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a principled search on the draft law and a single search on the proposals for decisions. We move to a common principle search of 2-5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE FUND FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (extremely valid), THE REFERENCE OF MONEY AND BANKS (new laws) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 2, 3, 4 and 5, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I remind you that discussions by parliamentary groups are as follows: SRS – one hour, 36 minutes; DSS – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; DS – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes, 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any MP group, four SPP MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this principle debate are: SRS – Veroljub Arsic, Nova Serbia, independent MPs 9+9 – Nikola Jovanovic, SPS – Jovan Todorovic. Another announcement, as People's MP Paja Momchilov warned, the 29th session of the Health and Family Committee will continue in the fourth, November 17th, 2005, at 1600 hours in the hall on the V floor. I am opening a joint principle search of 2, 3, 4 and 5 items of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Bill on Banks Does the Proposer Representative Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want to speak? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21988	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a four-law package, with the first two in the joint jurisdiction of the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Finance, as you know of the authorised promoters, namely the rapporteurs at the Assembly, are certain Minister Bubalo and my little one. So even though these first two laws are more in the economy ministry's portfolio, and given that the economy minister is currently on the official route, to the United States, I will give an explanation for these first two laws. These other two laws are in the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance. When we talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Development Fund Act, I want to say that the aim of this law is to bring legal solutions into line with the situation in practice. In fact, the Development Fund was originally established to help economic development unrelated to the property sector and the most resources of the Development Fund was approved by the 1990s. years, in the form of subsidies to public or social enterprises at the time. As the transition process began, the Development Fund began to change its role and shifted its activities towards the private sector. This law also finds that the Development Fund can only grant funds to the private sector and that loans from the Development Fund cannot be granted in the future to enterprises with social, or state capital, as well as public undertakings. This is because the goal is to complete the privatisation process of social enterprises, that public enterprises have other sources of funding. In fact, the basic role of the Development Fund in the future will be to credit those who cannot obtain loans under market conditions or cannot obtain these loans for reasons of market mechanism. So, although the market is the best mechanism for regulating economic activities, it is not perfect in all domains. Market defects are known, for example in poor municipalities, because business banks are not interested in granting loans because they see greater risks there. Also, business banks, unfortunately, are not interested in granting loans to beginners because they do not have a credit history and therefore the banks fear whether they will be able to collect loans. Therefore, there needs to be an institution that will be state-owned and where the state will take the risk of collecting loans. The Development Fund will, in fact, be that institution. The main role of the Development Fund will be to approve loans, above all, to balance regional development, therefore, in municipalities where there are enterprises that cannot easily withdraw loans from business banks. Then, beginners who can't get credit from banks either. The Development Fund will take over the role of giving them loans, so if someone doesn't pay back, the risk is the state. But, of course, there must be a chance for those who begin, especially when they are young, to have some idea that it is being realized. Of course, the Development Fund will play a role in improving employment in Serbia and exports. These will be basic principles on the basis of which the Development Fund will continue to lend loans. What I'm saying is that at this point, the capital of the Fund for Development is 38 billion dinars. That's about 450m euros. Therefore, the Development Fund has enviable capital. It has been generated by grants from the 1991 budget, when the Fund was established, by the end of this year, as well as by paying the loan at the appropriate interest rate. The Fund's capital kept increasing. In this year, the rate of the loans paid by the Development Fund is 98%, which means that the Fund has already moved to these market conditions of business. However, one tendency is observed that good businesses in small municipalities, especially when it comes to underdeveloped areas, cannot easily obtain loans. With this law, the Development Fund will be obliged to offer credit support to such enterprises under favourable interest, as you know for yourself that the interest rates of the Development Fund are between 1 and 5%, depending on the development of the area. The Development Fund, under this law, will also continue to carry out the commission for the state. So, that different government programs are being implemented in action. These are, above all, micro-credits for self-employment, as well as loans for regional development. As you know, in the 2005 budget, we had loans to encourage employment in the regions of Bora, Kragujevac and Vranja. This will be extended to other municipalities, so that these loans will continue to be distributed to end-users through the Development Fund which has the necessary expertise. In some ways, this law transforms the Development Fund into Serbia's development bank. Although the Fund will not be a classic bank, the way it operates and the principles of work can now be placed in Serbia's development bank. The law prohibits the future Development Fund being recapitalised by the Republic of Serbia's budget, for the simple reason it already has 450m euros in capital. It is enough capital that through the placement and collection of funds can continue to increase value. Of course, there is no ban on the recapitalisation of the Fund from other private sources, with the restriction that the value of government capital can never be less than 51%, which means there is a possibility of further growth of the Fund's capital. Theoretically, someone can invest 449m euros, while still the state remains the majority owner of the Development Fund with existing 450m euros in capital. So these are the key changes in this law. What I'm saying is that the Development Fund is already working on these principles. This law, in some ways, formalises the already existing practice in the functioning of the Fund, given that the original law was passed in 1991 and that in the meantime, the practice deviated from the original ideas. But these are the ones that formalize these changes. As regards the second law, which is on the agenda today, it is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. I'll say what are the key changes to this law. First of all, there are a number of termological alignments with the Business Society Act and the Business Registration Act, as well as the termination of some federal laws. Also, here is the question of how to distribute profits, as well as directing the payment of part of the funds on the basis of the resulting income of the founder, also, in accordance with the Business Society Act. We have some changes regarding preventing the monopolies of public enterprises, not only the republican ones, but also those whose founders are local self-government. Finally, the law also regulates the conditions for sharing free shares with employees, former employees and other Serbian citizens in the process of privatising parts or entire public enterprises. As for termological adjustments, I wouldn't bother you with that, I'd stick to the last two key changes in this law. Namely, this law specifies the deadline for the adoption of annual plans, i.e. the Public Business Programme on 1 December of the current year, which means that all public enterprises must submit their proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia by 1 December of the current year, and the government is obliged to respond to the programme within a maximum of 10 days. Of course, the assumption is that the programme is adopted by the end of the current year. Now it has been a practice, since it has not been precisely established until when public enterprises are obliged to submit their programmes, that some programmes were adopted even in September of the month for the current year, minors when the year has already expired. That was inaccurate in the law. The obligation is now specified – by December 1st, the latest programme must be submitted for next year. Also, mandatory elements are established which each public enterprise programme must contain. These are: planned sources of income and expenditure positions for purposes, elements for a comprehensive view of product and service price policy, as well as policies for profit and employment in the public enterprise, which must be established in accordance with the policy of projected price growth and earnings established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the economic policy plan, or budget for the following year. This is a very important change, I will give you several examples, unlike public enterprises, which are at a republican level, where already in 2005, the growth of the wage mass was limited to 7%, it has been said that, if there is a greater growth in individual wages, it must start with cost rationalization, which is in eight large public enterprises and done. That wasn't the case with local public enterprises. So we had, especially in early 2005, a significant increase in the price of utility services by public enterprises at the local level. The total cost of municipal services was raised in Serbia by 30% in the first ten months of this year. So the total level of inflation in Serbia is 13.7% in the first 10 months, municipal services are up 30%, and that's: water prices for households 33.2%, waste water, sewage fees 36%, garbage delivery 25.4%, heating 31%. Of course, I do not belong to demagogues that will say that the prices of municipal services should not be harmonised with real movements on the market. However, the problem is if the rise in public service prices is not used to raise the performance of these public enterprises and to improve the quality of services for citizens, it is used to raise salaries for employees working in these utility companies. Right now, I'm going to present to you how much profits have been raised in local public enterprises, where there have been no restrictions on growth this year. Namely, net earnings in local public enterprises increased in September 2005 compared to September 2004, so in the last year, by 27%. Salary growth – September 2005 compared to the average of 2004 – was 32% and that is well above many activities, which confirms that a good part of the rise in public service prices is too much for the growth of employees in local municipal, or public enterprises. Therefore, this law prescribes obligations, given that local self-governments now agree to raise prices by local public enterprises, this time the Ministry of Trade and Tourism must confirm this agreement in order to increase the price of local services and implement them. If price rises, the problem was that there was no effective sanction mechanism in our legislation, the possibility of a temporary suspension of the transfer of that local self-government whose local municipal enterprise raised prices above the levels that were in line with the projected economic policy, i.e. the real possibility of raising prices in that year, was therefore on that basis, so transfers can be suspended and on that basis, whether they are paid in local municipal enterprises above the level established by the business plan and which is general for that local self-government. So, if the 2006 budget of the Republic of Serbia has imposed a restriction that the growth of the mass of salaries in municipalities and cities cannot be greater than 9% compared to September of this year, then this restriction must apply not only to municipal administrations, but also to local municipal, or public enterprises. The sanction for non-compliance with this restriction is to suspend the transfer until these parameters return to this level. This way until the appropriate regulatory bodies are formed, because I think the long-term solution is to form a special regulatory body that will regulate water prices, heating prices, different municipal services at the level of the Republic, until then the Ministry of Trade, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will have to give individual consent. Of course, an increase in prices will be approved, but not excessively, and it will not be allowed to make this increase in profits more than is allowed by the economic policy plan for the current year. It's the first big paper in this law. Another newspaper is the creation of a legal basis for free division of actions employed in public enterprises prior to the privatisation process, as well as the sharing of actions for all other Serbian citizens who have not received shares in the privatisation process so far. A special member of this law foresees that state capital is transferred without compensation to employees in public undertakings who are privatised by a public tender method, i.e. through a public auction method up to 15% of the capital of a public undertaking. Therefore, the limit is 15%, given that it is a high value of the company's capital, and the government's intensity is that part of the capital that is privatised is not only shared by those who have worked or worked, therefore, pensioners of these public enterprises, but that next year, along with the free division of those 30% shares, which are in the Action Fund, are used to share free shares with all other citizens who have not received these actions in the privatisation process. So, they're employees of education, in education, in government, MPs, whoever didn't get in the state administration, whoever didn't get the shares in the privatisation process, next year they'll get those actions. However, we want, as a government, to prepare a really serious project that would allow citizens to make good use of those actions, because we know that there is an initiative and a union that is on the exact same wave as the government's initiative. We're just afraid that if actions are now divided and moving, for example, everyone is going to sell these actions in one place only, that the value of these actions could fall, because it's not a simple project how to from the moment that citizens get free shares to the moment of opportunity to sell them. A whole system must be created to ensure that citizens know where to invest these actions, how much the action "Hemopharma", "Sintellona", "Tigra" has to be done to ensure that citizens are well informed, before they decide to sell those actions. But what is very important, this law creates the possibility that employees in public enterprises will get one part of the free shares, and that the rest of the shares will be shared free of charge to all other citizens, just as those actions in social enterprises will be shared, and they have not been the subject of sales so far. As you know, in the Privatisation Act, 30% of the shares remain in the Action Fund and they will be divided into all those who have not received free shares in the privatisation process. As for state capital in public enterprises, this law clearly states that it can privatise a maximum of 70% of the government's capital that is privatised, and over 70%, up to 15% can be shared free of charge to employees in these public enterprises, which means that the other 15% remains for other citizens. It's a key paper in the Public Business Act. As for the remaining two legislative projects, the Bill on Banks has been done by the NBS, however, under the current constitution they do not have the right to propose legislation and therefore the Ministry of Finance is a formal proposer of this law. Of course, at the last stage, this law is in line with the Association of Banks of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that you have the latest agreed version. The first version of the Law on the Association of Banks of Serbia had a lot of objections, and these remarks were during public debates, i.e. professional discussions with the Banks Association overcame, so now we have a whole new law on banks that are in line with Basel principles, with OECD principles, but of course takes care of the specificities of the economic environment in Serbia. I'd like to say that the banking system is currently the most developed part of our economy. Currently, the savings of citizens are two billion and 80m euros. Only this year is 650m euros in bank savings. In this year, citizens have made more savings than in the previous two years together. So, the example works, 410m euros were deposited on savings in 2002, 283m euros in 2003, 387m euros in 2004, and 651m euros in new savings this year until 15 November. The total balance is now two billion and 80m euros in new savings on our banks' accounts. As for bank credit activities, total loans granted to citizens and businesses on 30 September this year amount to 479 billion dinars. The comparisons for the last 30 September were granted 323 billion dinars, and the credit situation on 31 December 2003, 242 billion dinars, which means that double credits were currently granted than at the end of 2003. That's the expansion of the loan I was talking about, which is why the National Bank had to hitchhike by raising the minimum reserve rate. As for loans granted to the population, 28 billion dinars were granted to the population on 31 December 2003, to raise that amount nearly five times this year to 102 billion dinars. So we have a really expansion of consumer loans to the population, the rest of the loans to either businesses, or local public sector self-government and other committees. Of course, the reform of the banking system began in mid-2001, and next year it will be fully completed. This year we had a successful privatisation of three state-owned banks: JU Bank, Novosadska and Continental Banka. Tenders for privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka, Pannonian Banka are under way, and a tender for privatisation of Kredi Banka from Kragujevac will be announced by the end of January. As you know, the prices achieved in this process are above the prices achieved in other Southeast and Central European countries. In some cases, the relationship between the price and the capital reached was over three to one. An example is the privatisation case of Novi Sadska Banka, where Austria's Erste Banka, the largest private bank in Austria, paid 3.3 times as much as the capital price. We, however, expect the record to be brought down in the event of the privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka and I am taking the opportunity to read for the first time before you, the MPs of the Republic of Serbia, the official list of banks that have applied for the privatisation tender of the Vojvodjanska Banka. These are the first two major banks from France: the credits agricol and the GNP Paris. As you know, Credi agricol is already present in our country. BP Pariba, it's a bank nassional d'Paris, not yet one of France's largest banks. Then, three large banks from Italy: Intesa Banka, UniCredito, which is otherwise an Italian-German-Austrian bank, since the Bank of Unicredito, meanwhile, also took over HVB Banka and Banka Austria, so it is one major European conglomerate at the moment. The third largest Italian bank, Sao Paolo, from Turin, also reported. Then, four Greek banks: "National Bank of Greece", "Alpha Bank", "Pireus" and "Empori". Hungary's OTP Bank, Poland's PKO Bank, the largest bank in Poland. So we have 11 banks that are in competition and more than certain that in this privatisation process, given the great interest, given that it is the largest bank with the majority state capital, which we have offered in the privatisation process, that a record price will be achieved here. We expect this privatisation process of the Vojvodjanska Banka to be completed by mid next year. As for other banks, the leading bank in Serbia is the Commercial Bank, which also has the largest amount of foreign exchange savings, around 400m euros. So it's a fifth of the total savings and it's in the Commercial Bank. The commercial bank is a domestic bank that has come into a situation to be the first bank that can go beyond Serbia's borders. The commercial bank is preparing to open its exposures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in Republika Srpska, and we hope that the Commercial Bank will be able to further strengthen its expansion into other former Yugoslav republics in the coming period. Because it is realistic that it becomes a very strong regional bank, as the strong regional bank has become also the Hungarian OTP bank or other banks. The government's intention is not to sell the Commercial Bank to strategic partners, but to only recapitalise the minority share of up to 25 per cent is possible to have a foreign partner, which means the state would keep the majority package in the future, given that the Commercial Bank is extremely profitable and has come to a position that it can now expand activities beyond Serbia's borders. Another large bank owned by the majority state is the Post Office and there are also no privatisation plans for it, which means that only those banks that could not be competitive on the domestic market are offered to strategic partners from abroad. You see for yourself, the Commercial Bank itself, through its own management, managed to survive, be competitive exclusively on our market, and thus qualified for expansion into other countries. Personally, I think that imports of the Commercial Bank to BiH, i.e. in Republika Srpska, will create far stronger relations between us and Republika Srpska, than have been made possible by formal parallel relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska, because only by strengthening essential economic ties can the relationship between certain territories be strengthened. As for the other provisions of the law on banks, first of all, there is a tightening of bank control here, because we now have a formed banking system. Those banks that worked either past the law or who cheated on citizens by collecting savings, then were abroad, financed by some of their other companies, were those banks whose private owners committed numerous crimes, and the banks were already closed. So, all that was to be closed -- it's closed. These banks that are left on the market are banks with pure capital and we can guarantee the citizens when they put money in those banks, that they don't have to fear for that future. That is why even more severe control is being introduced, because we do not want to allow these healthy banks to relax, but rather to keep in mind how they use the funds that their citizens have to keep. Then, we have a ban on harming competition in the banking market, mechanisms where monopoly behaviour, which is not only a characteristic of our market, but also of the EU market, could develop. Banks tend to make bigger profits, sometimes even negotiate interest rate policies. So far, in our Law on Banks, we had no mechanism to stand up to it. Now here are the mechanisms that will enable it. Also, it's detailed what a bank secret is. The client's right to be informed of the general conditions of business, to seek information relating to the business relationship with the bank and to define types of risk and risk management. What is also a newspaper is that in these conditions, when the acquisition of shares is tightened, so far could be acquired without the permission of the National Bank of Serbia, bank shares could have been acquired, unless that capital exceeds 15% of the bank's capital. It is now being tightened and more than 5 per cent of actions will have to be sought by the National Bank of Serbia in order to take care of the quality of the companies that want to enter into the bank's capital. So this is where the control is significantly tightened. As for the law on the prevention of money laundering, it is a law that has long been in the congregation procedure. I would like to say that the most important changes relate to the harmonisation of this law with the directives of the relevant institution that regulates the control of money laundering in the world. This is Financial Action Task Force. Namely, some of these internationally recognised directives have been inserted here, which will help to detect these transactions. We noticed that the definition of money laundering was not precise enough. Therefore, the definition of money laundering itself is further specified. It is also a cover-up or incorrect display of the fact of property with the knowledge that this property stems from a criminal offence; acquisition, holding or use of property with knowledge at the time of receiving that property was acquired by carrying out a criminal offence; then, concealment in the process of property transformation of enterprises and other legal entities, illegally acquired social or state property and social or state capital. Also, under transactions that are considered confidential to reveal whether they are clean transactions or money laundering, it is more than just the control of the deposit of money, but also the control of the withdrawal of cash from the accounts. Therefore, all transactions of the deposit of the money, but also of the withdrawals, are subject to control of whether it is a normal transaction or whether it is money acquired by criminal activities. The circle of debtors who are obliged to send information to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering on the transactions they carry out are: legal and physical persons who perform and traffic cars, vessels and other objects of greater value, as well as tourist agencies. So we have a whole series of institutions that are bonds, starting with banks, exchanges, bookies, those that organize gambling, but are expanding that circle of taxpayers to these institutions as well. There is a difference between the party's identification and the party's registration. In other words, there are institutions that are obliged to identify the party, regardless of whether it is suspected of investing in money acquired by criminal activities or not, such as gambling organisers. In the future, after this law, everyone who goes to the bookies will have to show their ID. It will be recorded, but it will never be activated, if that man who's betting on it does so by revenue obtained in a legal way. One day, however, it may be a good basis for detecting a criminal. The difference in identification compared to the existing law, that when opening an account or any other transaction, cash or non-cash, now not only cash, but also non-cash transactions, all parties carrying out a transaction whose total amount exceeds 15,000 euros in dinar equivalent must be identified. So far, there has been a limit of 600,000 dinars. When we passed the law a few years ago, it was 10,000 euros. So, in some ways, it raises that limit to 15,000 euros, but it does not only apply to cash payments or raises, but also to non-cash transactions, as well as to more inter-related transactions, the amount of which exceeds 15,000 euros. Also, it will be necessary to identify parties in life insurance transactions, when the value of a single war premium or more war premium that should be paid in one year amounts to a thousand or more euros in dinar equivalent, when payment of a single premium exceeds 2,500 euros in dinar equivalent, when a single war premium or more war premium increases and exceeds 1,000 euros in dinar equivalent. These are provisions that are new and also in European legislation, because it has been found that a lot of money launderers place that money through insurance companies. This was not present in the 1990s, but after 2000 this trend was observed, laws were modified in other countries too, so we are doing that change here too. When paying or paying off money from a classic gambling director, it is a lottery, and other gambling games, worth 1,000 or more euros in dinar equivalent, the party will have to be identified. So if someone wants to pay the ticket and pay over 1,000 euros, they have to show their ID card and be put into the register. In the case of special game editors, these are bookshops, casinos and other things, the identification must be carried out immediately upon entry into the toyroom, and in a specific database it is kept. Also, there is an identification in each transaction, cash or non-cash, independent of the value of that transaction, if there are reasons to suspect that money laundering is related to both the transaction and the party. In other words, if the banker suspects the person making the payment, regardless of whether it is 10 euros, 1,000 euros, so below 15,000 euros, he is obliged to identify it. There is an obligation to identify if the proxies open an account or carry out a transaction for the account of a foreign legal person who has an open offshore company, therefore, for non-residents. The debtor is also required to carry out an identification by means of an original and certified court or appropriate public register, which must not be older than three months. What's the next phase, it's reporting face and transaction to the Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Therefore, any cash transaction exceeding 15,000 euros in dinar equivalent, i.e. more interlinked transactions exceeding 15,000 euros, must be reported to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. This applies to cash and cash transactions. The same goes for insurance companies, bookshops and other institutions that I have already reported. What are the deadlines for reporting to the Board? For cash transactions, the time limit is immediately after execution, and no later than three days, that is 72 hours; for suspicious transactions prior to execution, indicating the time limit in which the transaction will take place, and if impossible, the time limit is 24 hours from the time of the execution of the transaction. It shall be authorised to suspend the transaction for a maximum period of 72 hours, if suspected of being money laundering. The right to suspend a temporary transaction within 72 hours also has the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. This law regulates and functions of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. It's the government's body within the Ministry of Finance. I want to tell you how this whole process works, so you can understand it even better. So anyone who comes into the bank, an insurance company, in a bookie, pays a lotto, makes any transaction at the exchange office, if he makes a transaction that was cash or cash or cash, and more than 15,000 euros, has to be identified. If he is suspected of committing a suspicious transaction, he must be identified. If he performs more related transactions, say, changes in the exchange shop over the course of one day more times 3,000 euros, so he crosses the 15,000 amount he changed during the day, he must again be identified. Data shall be entered and there shall be an obligation to perform the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. The Money Laundering Prevention Authority is building a database. This database is used for checking with other competent authorities, with police, tax administration, customs and other competent authorities. This database identifies the number of suspects, i.e. transactions, and analyses are carried out and these data are further provided to the MUP, the Tax Administration, the foreign exchange inspectorate, the Securities Commission, in order to initiate criminal charges against those persons suspected of committing a crime of money laundering. What I'm saying is that right now there are 300,000 transactions in our database, 10% of which are suspicious. We get an average of 766 applications a day. So in practice, it works that 766 applications a day are coming to our base, but it's quite clear that they're not all suspicious. You have the payment of markets of large supermarkets, restaurants, and only those suspected in coordination with the competent authorities of crime, of some crimes, are suspected. So, that money that's acquired by crime is trying to wash through some legal transactions. So far, our administration has filed 15 criminal charges and have initiated proceedings on this basis. However, I believe that by adopting this law, we will have far more effective work. So this would be the four laws that are now on the agenda. Given that all these laws improve on the one hand financial discipline, on the other hand they help citizens, because, let's say, the law on public enterprises gives the opportunity to free share actions for workers in the privatisation process of these public enterprises, I hope that MPs will support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21989	Do any of the heads of Parliament or authorised representatives want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is now a lot of trouble when in one debate you have to cover several very important laws, and each of these laws, which Mr. Minister spoke of, is important from the point of view of every MP. The reasons were to increase the efficiency of the work, but sometimes these mistakes are being stolen and that, for example, in time, I saw the text of the law on public enterprises and amendments to the Government would certainly not vote for this way of debate, at least in principle. I'll start with the Development Fund. The Development Fund is an institution of financial nature that, above all, socialists can be proud of. In 1992, therefore, those who ruled at the time decided that there was a need in this country to have a Development Fund that would, among other things, encourage regional development, encourage business development, promote the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and nothing was likely to be controversial. Finally, in the last 13 years, in various difficulties and specificities, the fund has managed to survive and achieve a decent amount of capital. Today it's about 38 billion dinars or 450 million, and in the meantime we've had changes to the Privatisation Act that have significantly derogated the role and function of the Development Fund. In this place, I would like to remind you of one pledge by the SPS parliamentary group since the changes in 2000, which is that the funds achieved by the sale of enterprises in the privatisation process are being entered into the Development Fund. Unfortunately, no one year begins from 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and here in 2006 no money will be entered into that Development Fund based on the sale of these enterprises, unless subsidies that existed in the budget as items and some other placements in the Development Fund are included under this Fund, but on the basis of quite certain purposes set out in the divisions of individual ministries. Time, of course, seems its own. I could feel free and very responsible here to say that those authorities that started that privatisation in some way violated all the laws, including the Constitution, in this country, because they did not respect the basic provisions of the Development Fund law, that these funds were being introduced into the Fund. We were opposed to the use of privatisation funds for public consumption, for office materials, for telephone expenses, for official travel, etc. but that, just when you sell one company, you create conditions to establish a new one with credit policy and incentives or to enable the existing one to be ready for that so-called. A competition with Europe which we socialists, of course, want to enter. In the last five years, the Fund has also acted exactly according to the provisions proposed as amendments to this law, which means that there were no social enterprises that would be able to obtain a loan from the Fund. I have no objection, since I know that this privatisation will eventually end, whether in 2006 or 2007, perhaps from the point of view of the text of the law is not the most important thing, but it is from the point of view of one finding that just the past five years we may have missed a very large chance that the Development Fund will grow into a development bank which, unlike business and commercial banks, will finance small and medium-sized enterprises and what we call a balanced regional development on a much more favourable level than it is with business banks. That is why, of course, I do not mind the provision in the law that, in 2006, these social enterprises, in particular these large ones that are being restructured, will not be able to use loans from the Development Fund. The provision that the 2006 budget, finally and permanently (if this law remains), cannot be financed by the Development Fund, too, has its logic, if this is what I'm talking about. The end of privatisation, the rise of the Fund to the so-called the development bank and the financing of these activities concerning the employment, establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of entrepreneurship and the achievement of regional development policy. So there are no budget funds and those who were looking at the 2006 budget could spot it. I knew about these provisions of the law, and that's why they're not controversial to me. There is one provision that is simply enigmatic to me, in some way and controversial, I think it can cause confusion in the application of this law, and as regards the provisions of Article 7 of the proposed amendments to the Development Fund Act, among other things, it is said, in the last view, that the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot be used to capitalise the Fund. When he can't get out of the budget, for funding the Fund, I'm okay with it. When he can't even capitalize, I ask a question. Why? Because I remind you all of what Article 8 says in attitude 1 - the Fund's assets are in state property. Item 2 says – when the Fund is organised as a stockholder's company, it is proposed to be called an appropriate law on companies of the "action" society, the Fund issues to the Republic (shares) of the value of the capital it has, with the value of the state capital cannot be less than 51% of the total value of the capital. I'd like your attention here for a moment. This keeps the basic provision under the law that the Development Fund must be in the majority state-owned percentage. How will we obtain the privatisation of these 49% available and will be present on the market? By 51%, the Fund will transfer actions to the Republic of Serbia, but by 49% there are two ways. One is the recapitalisation, in terms of this figure spoken of by Minister Dinkic, so if the value of the capital is 450m euros someone will enter into the Development Fund 440 and become owner with 49%. What are we going to do in phase two when the one who decided to invest 440 million at the moment or a group of them move on and say – I have now become a development bank, I want to finance some other projects, and I need some other shareholders to do that, and I need some other strategic partners who want to invest additionally in the Development Fund. In that case, if we receive private capital in the Development Fund, then its percentage exceeds 51% and loses the basic meaning of the law. It is then simple and impossible to do by law, because private capital cannot become a majority in the Development Fund. I therefore believe that such a provision, that the budget funds cannot be used for the recapitalisation of the Fund, is not good, is not practical. I propose that this provision be deleted and, in this sense, I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, one amendment – that the provision be deleted, which does not mean that the state, government or budget will be obliged to ever participate in the capitalisation unless there are justified economic and financial reasons. I don't think the state should tie its own hands, that at some point it can't make such a single decision that we put into the category of so-called. strategic decisions. Because we don't care how we own in the future, whether with most or with a minority share of capital. Finally, we don't need to change the law again, etc., but I don't think we should tie our own hands and stop the state, that at some point, when it really does. It is possible that we have a third variant, compared to what I was saying, that those who buy 49% of that capital in common with the state of recapitalisation agreements at the same amounts, in order to maintain the same relative relations in capital. And that's where it ends. I'll talk about the Development Fund so much, because I don't think there's any need to explain it any further, and besides, there's going to be an amendment debate. Now I'm going to focus your attention on the bank law. You can see that there was obviously a need here to do a new law with over 149 members. The problem is, we got that bill on Friday. When we wanted to submit amendments, we weren't in a position because we were all engaged in this debate and the budget and some other laws. Third, those are the solutions to this law. It's fundamental, in my opinion, they haven't even been changed. We have the founding capital of banks and now 10m euros, as it was in previous laws. We have provisions that predict the savings issue, or one savings bank, because at this point we only have one, and that's, I mean, "Postal Savings." We have the abolition of three savings-credit organizations and we have four savings-credit cooperatives. As you know, these financial organisations have their founding capital as a rule of around 2.5m euros. They have the opportunity to make several variations in a time of one year. One is to raise those 2.5m euros to 10m euros and thus obtain a condition to become a bank. The second is to team up with each other and build a bank. The third is that each of them finds a strategic partner in a bank that already has 10m euros, to enter with their 2.5m euros to increase the capital and build a decent bank. Someone would say, there's nothing more controversial about it, and it's not for me either, but I'm concerned about the authority of the National Bank, which has been derived from every member of this law and is simply no longer the discretionary right of the National Bank of Serbia. I have the impression that certain precise details or individual precise solutions from the members of the Banks Act are in some way doubtful, so the Supreme Auditor, these and such views, the National Bank of Serbia, who will have the right to change some of that, complement, to alter the way of reckoning, etc. You have even so many clear things, formally established in the text of the law itself, but it is said, however, that the National Bank of Serbia, as the governor will say, will have the right to, behold, determine something different from that. I'll give you a few examples, because we've submitted a few amendments, but somehow we've arrived to do it, but in a hurry. Take Article 23. The capital ratio is the ratio between the capital and the risk-active bank. That's what it says in Section 2. Who's a banker and who knows anything about finances at all is clear to him. These two sizes are relationships and are given an indication of the adequateness of capital. This indicator is important in order to get permission to work, in order to potentially deny the work permit, etc. Do not lie down, the last position says that the National Bank of Serbia prescribes criteria for determining the ratio of capital to adequateness (Second Article 3). No one alive can answer me today what it really means, except the Pharaohic powers of the governor of the National Bank. In this place, I have to admit very correctly that monetary authority is a particular kind of government, but it's not over executive power. Mr. Dinkic needs to explain this law. If I were Mr. Dinkic, I would tell Mr. Jelasic – please explain this law. He argues, in the last few years, about when a license is withdrawn, when a permit is granted, what happens when we complain about such solutions, what one court does, what the other court does, what the administrative procedure is, do we have two-stages, etc. Some things even interfere with the issues of constitutionality and the right to appeal to those who at that time are considered damaged, and as a rule, none of the acts adopted here under this law, and on the basis of the powers given to the People's Bank, are subject to appeal or appeal or the action retains the execution of such a solution, regardless of the possible consequences of those who founded the bank, etc. I have no doubt that we must put order into this so-called. The banking sector and that we have to make financial discipline. We need to get the banks to operate according to positive legal rules and to meet all their indicators and operating conditions until the end. And there's no mercy. Too much subjectivity can also be a great shame and have negative consequences, so I'm not sure what would be greater damage in that case. You have some provisions, say, when there are no conditions and there's a banking market that those who have invested their capital in the bank can't withdraw their capital when they want to. Even if they do not get permission, because some procedure needs to go through with the National Bank of Serbia again, that is, with the governor and get that consent, and only then, eventually, to withdraw its capital. This raises the question, therefore, of the right to dispose of the one whose capital is equity. It seems to me that even a bad sign is being sent to those who may be outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, who, behold, might set up a bank here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Because these provisions, which cause doubt, are dissuasive and it is not good to stand in any law, especially in this law that is very important to me. He should not prevent it, but rather bring those investors closer. I'm afraid I'm not wasting my time. I can see it's been 16 minutes. We have therefore submitted several amendments and I will talk about these amendments when the public debate comes. Now I'm sorry there's no Mr. Minister, Dinkic, but I just have to ask one question. It is about the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. Here now three things are very important and indicative to me. I have no objection to measures of economic policy and through competent ministries affecting the price of utility services. There, too, must be kept in mind that not all public enterprises whose founders of local self-government are in the same situation; so I don't know the water supply in Loznica are not in the same condition as in Leskovac, large losses in the network, ran out of networks, etc. Profit limits can also be understood, because we want to reduce public spending, to ensure, based on the rationalisation of the business of these public enterprises, the right for employees to, among other things, increase their profits. What's the matter with me? I can't understand that we're solving this thing with an amendment. This is what the minister was talking about when it comes to privatisation. Up to 70% of the capital in these public enterprises can be privatised where the founder of the state and where the founder is local self-government, if I interpret this well. If I'm right, it's a very dangerous provision, because we haven't discussed it yet. The public company, for example, NIS, the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivreda, the Public Enterprise of ZTP, cannot possibly be in the same category as those companies privatising under the Privatisation Act. Obviously, this amendment by the Government has one analogy in the way of privatisation, because we have similar solutions there – up to 70% sales, up to 30% distribution of free shares, when sold via tender – 15% workers, etc. Here goes the wider ones and the ones that didn't work anywhere, etc. But who now defined that we should privatise 70% of NIS, or Elektroprivrede or ZTP? What it says is that up to 70%, it can only be an explanation, but it can't be an excuse. I think this amendment should be withdrawn, and only these provisions should be adopted which are not disputed, and concerning the functioning of public enterprises, particularly those operating locally. As far as privatisation is concerned, no matter how many socialists we advocate the rights of workers in these companies, etc., but (as you know, by our laws, workers had the right to become owners of up to 60% of businesses, these are conceptual differences and I would not talk about them,) this amendment simply should not be accepted. The government would do best to pull him out, so let's talk about it in a way that suits the problem. As far as I know, NIS has issued a contest under the Law that we have amended to elect a privatisation advisor, he has yet to propose something about this privatisation, among other things, to say to what percentage to privatise NIS, and only then should the Government and this National Assembly discuss it. I'm afraid we're going to put a big problem on the little door, not just us socialists, who are advocating some other kind of privatisation, some other rights of employees in public enterprises. And, among other things, the question is where do these funds go from privatising large public enterprises? Where the state, as the majority owner, or at this point the 100% owner, plans. For example, we think that all the funding from the privatisation of NIS and such enterprises should go to the pension fund. Let's finally take the pension fund off the agenda once, and never throw it out of the pension fund again. If those funds are going to be more than the pension fund needs, then we'll go to the next fund. Or we'll simply do one activity at the level of municipal construction, build roads, highways, railroads, railways, but what we can do about it. But this is not good. I've had so much about these points. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Secretary here. Please, as associates, pass it on to him. We simply cannot vote on this amendment because it is contrary to our programming, and it is not rational to talk about it in this way in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21991	I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the MPs' clubs, come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21992	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've heard again from the minister who explained the four laws here, which took him almost an hour. The debate is united, so it seems to me that MPs are in one unfavourable situation compared to the promoter, in a short time they will have to discuss four laws, criticise or praise certain provisions of these laws. The fact is that the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia should have been adapted in some parts. The law was written correctly in 1992; it was applied for 13 years. There have probably been some knowledge of the lack of law itself, there has been a need to comply with new laws, etc. However, it seems to me that here the ministry of a certain provision of this law is changing at an extremely bad political moment. This is already seen in Article 3 of the Old Law, which is being amended, says: "The Fund participates in its own, production and financial restructuring of businesses and the achievement of regional development policy, including encouraging the development of underdeveloped areas and stopping emigration and the return of Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija." The fact is that the state of Serbia is currently in no position to exercise power in its autonomous province. The fact is, here we are entering a phase of negotiations on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status, that the Assembly will meet on this issue on Monday, is already scheduled, where a resolution will be established, with what starting grounds to approach this delegation. But the fact is that this part of the text relating to Kosovo and Metohija is deleted. Is that what the promoter is predicting in advance? Whether it is his policy and his position, although the resolution itself, means, contrary to the amendment and addition of this law. It is not what the minister said, that small and underdeveloped areas can reach the Fund's resources, in its interpretation of the bill. Basically, the Development Fund is designed to focus primarily on not sufficiently developed areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, the change that would be: "The Fund on Development Principles encourages economic development, participates in achieving regional development policy, and can also, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, do other jobs." So this Article 3 could have been reformed differently than it was proposed to, however, retain certain provisions of this law. We also had a debate here on the Republic of Serbia's budget, the minister claimed that the budget was developmental, by giving certain subsidies to agriculture, exports, etc. However, the very proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia says the Fund is not financed from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What kind of development budget are we talking about then? It can be said that he already has enough funds, 450-460m euros, that it is the capital the Fund has, but counting on what our economy is like at the moment, whether this capital is really enough for the development of the Republic of Serbia, means those funds in which the state would participate. It is also said that the Fund can be financed from various donations, where it is done, as they say, a financial organisation, where various reprogrammes are carried out, whether in the economy, whether in the employment process etc. However, one who takes the Republic of Serbia's budget a little more seriously, seeing no revenue from donations. So, the seven billion dollars you promised before October 5th, it's gone, we got some "sugar" of maybe a billion dollars, and that was that for all these five years. Even in the 2005 Budget Law, the same thing was mentioned, that there were donations, there was a budget in the deficit, but there are no grants in the rebalancing, and here in the new 2006 Budget Act, there are also no donations. What is the Fund going to finance itself from? Will it be like a stock company, where someone will invest in this Fund, where interest rates are extremely small, precisely because it encourages the development of the Republic of Serbia, where these funds will be invested in the Fund, their turnover is extremely slow. Does anyone really have any economic interest in investing in such a fund or are they simply going to invest in the banks that are here on the market just enough and that in this way there is much faster profits than their own funds? In Article 8, that is re-confirmed. So the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot be used to capitalise the Fund. Already in Article 9 of the Basic Law, the basic text reads: "The fund's management order is the Management Board. The Management Board consists of the president and eight members, whose term of office takes four years," etc. When the Fund is organised as a shareholder society, the participation of state capital cannot be less than 51%, etc. However, if this member is more seriously looked at, or changed in it, it says: "The fund's management order is the Management Board. The board of directors and six members, acting as the economy minister, the finance minister," see again Mladjan Dinkic, even at the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, "Minister of Science, Minister of Capital Investments". Was that the minister who said the Public Procurement Act was wrong, I agree, but he said it shouldn't be applied. And that's not a minister to say, especially one to enforce power. So, "Minister in charge of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Minister of Labour". So it's going to be the board of directors. Then why are we even building a board of directors, if the state owns 51%, then let the board of directors run the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the Prime Minister is also the chairman of the board of directors, so go ahead. Or did you really come up with that Fund to serve someone else, not for economic development, as the idea of the law itself provides. Furthermore, all other provisions mainly relate to compliance with the Business Society Act, etc. One of the main regrets is that the current economic situation in the Republic is not good, that the state from the budget should participate in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. And there is even a sense of the existence of a board of directors where all members with majority ownership are, in fact, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When the bill on the prevention of money laundering is taken now, there are already certain provisions where it is seen again and raises the good intentions of a legislator of such a law. The fact is that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia over the past 10 and over years, there has been one enormous wealth of some people, faces, some simply trying to legalise. One way is for the money acquired by illegal actions to be returned to commercial flows and to be used further through the law of the envisaged norms. So now we have a situation about privatising the tobacco industry, about privatising the tobacco industry market where even certain provisions of the law are adapted to certain financial specific lobbys so that they can be uninterrupted without competition to participate in the market. Furthermore, that this law was not passed quite late, or proposed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the privatisation of large social enterprises has already moved away and the question is how much of the money from that privatisation was obtained legally or how illegal it was. Whether the state and such privatisations will question or leave it to anyone who has caught, stolen, abused, simply unpunished. Already in Article 12, one of the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Minister of Finance to be a peacemaker, is seen here, and it is said: "The Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering is educated as the Authority of the Administration of the Ministry of Finance Affairs", and continues to say, "It is the director who is appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia"... ''on the proposal of the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs (hereinafter referred to as Minister)', etc. So Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister will be responsible and directly responsible for implementing this law. When looking at Article 13 in the last position, it says: ''Minister, on a proposal from the Director of the Administration, prescribes a methodology for the execution of transactions by the obligor in accordance with this law, the manner and time limits in which the obligor is obliged to notify the Management of transactions under this law, as well as cases in which certain bonds are not obliged to report cash transactions totalling 15,000 euros'. So it's the minister who gives himself the right, in the bill of law, to be the one to decide when the law will apply and to whom it will apply and to whom it will not. Whether or not it will be applied to the money that comes from these exotic islands, from Seattle, the Virgin Islands, etc. It is the minister who decides when the law should be applied, and when it does not, given what happened to the person of Mladjan Dinkic, one extremely suspicious provision of this law. The SRS has submitted a series of amendments to this law. We asked our amendments not to really educate the administration within the Ministry, but, given that it is big money, that it is a terrible pressure on anyone who can participate in preventing this money laundering, to educate a special commission, or commission to prevent money laundering. The Commission would have its own statute, which would again give its consent to the Serbian Parliament, without prior executive authority, have a president elected again by the National Assembly and would have members of the commission, who again elects the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee. So, the goal is that the commission, unfortunately not envisaged by this law, acts as an entirely independent body in relation to the executive authority and that it only corresponds to the Serbian Parliament for the work it does. That's the only way to prevent money laundering. Otherwise, the administration would report to the ministry once every three months, and to the Serbian government once a year, in principle, all this remains within the circle of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will never be in a position to consider and later adopt. It's a fundamental objection to this law. So the law is technically well-conceived, but it is the minister who will selectively decide when the law will apply and when it will not. The idea is, as is the Commission for Securities of Values, but as we can see, there is already a G17 coming into conflict with the President of the Commission, who is from their ranks, the question is why. We now have a top state audit institution that also operates as an independent body and which submits its report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is one sensitive substance about spending budgets, public revenues and expenditures, and the question is why this idea did not come from the legislator of this law. So, to educate a commission fully independent of the executive authority, which would work with the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and thus both the results of this work and the possibility of abuse; the results of the work would be better and the possibility of abuse would be far less. When it comes to the Law on Public Enterprises, since I now have to talk about four laws in a shorter period of time, it has already been seen from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and now once again one trend of one poor macroeconomic policy led by the government this year is being blamed on someone else. So, first, the prices of crude oil, affected inflation, and then it was a late year for agriculture, and eventually local self-government was accused of increasing the cost of life inflation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is said in Article 22b of the Law that, the competent authority of the local self-government unit, i.e. the AP, gives consent to the programme set out in Article 1 of this Article, and that the programme contains elements that do not comply with the policy of projected price growth and earnings determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for that year. Be careful now, if we are local self-government, that is, if the state of the Republic has given up some of its rights in favour of local self-government, why are we now denying these rights to local self-government, and local self-government remains responsible for carrying out the tasks entrusted to it by the Republic of Serbia. So now there are criminal provisions in this part. The fact is that the Ministry of Finance has been insisting for a year and a half in one attempt, which is to threaten local self-government that, unless it reduces the number of workers in the municipal administration, in public enterprises and institutions, where it is the founder of local self-government, it will stop them from paying off the transfer funds. So this is one blackmail, and only the Ministry of Finance in the draft budget does not foresee a social programme for workers who would lose their jobs in public enterprises and municipal administrations where the founder is local self-government. Are we going to leave this job to local self-government, to run this social program? Our local self-government is in an extremely difficult financial situation. Barely with these means that they have, most of them, not all of them, can carry out their duties under their jurisdiction. In a large number of municipalities, we do not have basic civilizational fluids, such as plumbing and sewerage. Recruitment of employees in local self-government bodies, in public enterprises where the founder is local self-government, is usually on average in the Republic of Serbia or below that average, especially when it comes to municipal activities, plumbing, sewerage and garbage. Now, with one such bill, the minister gives himself the right to control whether the programme of some local self-government is in line with the Government of the Republic of Serbia's programme. What if there are two completely different political options in power? With a different political program, with different visions of local self-government? How will the programme of some political option in power be implemented in this situation? How will local self-government, because it is self-government, participate in a part of the lower level of executive power, but it certainly carries one particular responsibility to the citizens living in that municipality. How is she going to perform her work if she's always above her head by the Ministry of Finance? It is also said that, if the competent authority of the units of local self-government, i.e. autonomous province, does not ensure that the programme referred to in Article 1 of this Article, which has been adopted in accordance with Article 22 of this Act, is carried out in a section relating to the payment of earnings and the price of products and services. So, it's even going to the point where the minister gives himself the right to stop paying off employees' salaries in municipal administrations. I'm not saying that certain municipal administrations may also have extra resources, they may not know how and how money will be spent, but it is quite inappropriate for the Ministry of Finance to interfere to this extent with the jurisdiction of local self-government, especially since local self-government is in principle the least involved in the fact that they are asking how much the price will be for municipal services. The cost of municipal services depends on the macroeconomic situation in the country. What affects that price? In the first place, it affects the price of electricity. We've already talked about it in the budget debate. Who affects the price of electricity? The government of the Republic of Serbia. It's perfectly normal, if it collects electricity, they'll have to collect both water and sewer services. What else affects the price of utility services? It's safe and priced oil and oil derivatives. If there is a disturbance, it is certain that the prices of utility services will be expensive. It is better that Mr. Minister, instead of talking about false inflation movements at 12.5%, told us how much oil and oil derivatives have been collected since January 1st this year. Is that maybe 20, 30, 40 percent? How much? How much did the power go? What it doesn't say is, what it does for the general parameters that exist on some scale of some statistical institute, where statistics are not really scientific research, but only one method of testing, where, in any case, any ruling majority can manipulate these data, what everything is going to be considered or not. That's the problem. I'm sorry that Mr. Minister left the Serbian Parliament session, I wanted to remind him that he didn't answer the question I asked him this afternoon, what about the money that was supposed to be in Cyprus?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21993	Are any of the heads of Parliament's clubs or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to the order of the MPs of the people. According to statements for the word, in a joint principled search, the word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Of course, I agree, Mr. Krasic, with you it's a little hard to even discuss such important laws at a time when there are six MPs in the government hall. Yeah, now I'm thinking very seriously about whether I should even try it in front of those six fellow Members of the People's Parliament, not counting the MPs of the SPS, they're parliamentary majority, and the government majority of you are six of you sitting here and that's not good. Now I don't know who I'm going to convince. The fact that I can't convince the minister, I wouldn't surely convince him for the simple reason that what I'm about to talk about, the government has already proposed a bill and has proposed an amendment, so there probably isn't, what our people would say, come on, but there would be an attempt to convince you to change things. And now I have no one to convince, since you're not here in the O.R. Okay, well, on your own account, since the Rules of Procedure allow it, maybe that's the way it works. Here are a few things, of course, given that my colleague Baralic should also speak afterwards, I will not take up much of his time so that he can say what he thinks, but only about two laws a few sentences. I must say that it is very important that any government that leads to the fact that some positive values or positive values of society, which in the previous period were also positive results that gave the relevant organisation and institution in the development, particularly economic but also in any other development, have helped to develop some environments and in general, that they are being upgraded, and that they are not being destroyed. I think that those countries, there, we should try to respect the practice and other states that were in transition, that went to the shut-down, the total shut-down of the relevant institutions and the creation of completely new institutions and starting from the beginning, that they came in a position to simply destroy the system and to create nothing new, and that some positive values that were in this sense were not used in the right way. One of these positive values and positive flows of the previous period is the Development Fund. He's in different ways, of course, and he's formed and he's become different and full. There were several basic revenue from the Development Fund in the previous period. First of all, two basic sources of income: it was the budget of all these previous years, (as it strengthened and came to this 450m euros) and another part of the source of revenue from which the Fund is now in fact living and functioning and can be said to be stable, it is the source of income that was being sold by part of Telekom. Of course, about Telekom and the sale of Telekom was a lot of words, but the fact is, if you check the capital source data in the Development Fund, you'll see that the most significant part of capital and the preserved part of capital is actually that part of capital that was paid from a part of Telecom's sale and of which, of which, by turning these funds, the Development Fund has a good basis that it can work. And that's good and it's good that the Development Fund, if I may say so, is building up, in terms of the need to help develop Serbia's economy. However, it is not good to stop further payments and continue to create conditions for the Development Fund to increase. This story of him reaching a huge number of up to 450 million can't even mean the story that he's reached his maximum. Because if it reached its maximum and we were to say – there is no need for this fund to increase, it would mean that Serbia's economy is so well developed that there is no need for more favourable loans and for more favourable development and that it should not continue to fill that fund. I have to say that the SPS considers, regardless of this bill, that it should have been provided, if not from the budget, because of this way of forming the budget, but necessarily from the fund, from the privatisation revenues that part of the funds, is that 10, 20, 30 percent, necessarily coming as an additional income from the Development Fund. However, and if we adopt this law, as it is now, and if we adopt to remain that 450 million as a basis, and if we start from what Mr. Todorovic was saying, my fellow SPS, about how the Fund is privatised, where 51% of the survival of this fund is guaranteed, the main thing is whether to capitalise 440 million or sell 240 million. It would be a disaster for Serbia. I don't think that's good, the Committee should, together with the Ministry, specify this member who speaks about the recapitalisation of 45% of the Fund, and not at all about the privatisation of the Fund, in the sense that someone remembers and sells 49% of the Fund and takes 240 million, to fill some closed holes. But in no way will this fund achieve its function unless this assembly adopts a law on regional development. That's the essence of this development fund. When he was formed, he was not only formed to give cheap loans, but to enable the regional development of the Republic of Serbia. I know a part of the Vranje, Kragujevac and Bor was financed from the Fund last year. That's good, but it's not enough, it's not just Bor, Vranje and Kragujevac areas that are undeveloped in Serbia. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have such a tendency to distinguish between development in Serbia, that we will turn Serbia into Belgrade and several cities: Novi Sad, Nis, possibly and Subotica, and that everything else is in a position of fully debalanced economic development or, rather, not stagnation, but decreases in both the number of employees and gross national income and everything else. In the next period, by the end of the year, we should have obtained a law on regional development, to know what it means to be an undeveloped area. Why are we ashamed that Ivanica is an undeveloped area? What does an extremely undeveloped area mean? And that the different interest rates for the highly undeveloped area and for the developed area, that's the Fund's commitment to development, then the Development Fund doesn't mean anything, then it's one bank that, eventually, has a little less interest. We have enough of these banks to fund it. There is no Serbia and there is no future for Serbia without proper economic development. If we don't want to empty Serbia and make fewer and fewer municipalities around Serbia, some major cities move to Belgrade or several central cities. We will support this law, but at the request of the Committee on Finance or who is in charge of this reasoning, more specifically, recognises the privatisation of 49% in the recapitalisation, not in the privatisation. That's one thing. Secondly, on the condition that the government here undertakes to propose a law that regulates the regional development of the Republic of Serbia over the next month, with the precise marking of areas that are extremely underdeveloped and undeveloped. In these conditions, the Development Fund and the Management Board have an obligation to determine the difference in interest and the different lending and priority of lending to those who are in Medvedjac compared to Voždovac, without any objection, to open the same factory someone on Voždovac. Since I don't have much time, let me move on to another question, which is this law on public enterprises in the pursuit of action of general interest. Minister Dinkic said several things here that are a general and clear SPS policy, and above all when it comes to free actions by former employees in public enterprises and all those who have not received actions on a second basis. Unfortunately, that law was by 2001, the law that we, when we were in power and the SRS had, where all workers were in a position to get action. He's been suspended. One significant number of people, above all in these social activities (police, education, health, public authorities, etc.) He wasn't in a position to get, according to his work experience, an appropriate number of actions. Mr. Markovic, don't say it wasn't you, neither am I. We're not the point, but the point is that a large number of employees in these institutions didn't get it. It's quite certain and certain, it's one of the strategic advocates of the SPS, that these people should get those actions. However, it is not clear how they will get their actions. We think that the next period must be as precise as possible and the law will be passed, how they will receive these actions and how they will exercise their right. If the government doesn't take advantage of that, we'll, as an SPS, propose that small shareholders law, about shareholders who are supposed to get those 15% shares in all businesses. We just need to see how they get it. One thing is the general story that in NIS 15% will get shares, but let's see how those 15% are entitled to NIS, because not only will employees be able to achieve those 15%, based on the number of employees, based on years of employment, but less on how those 15% have the right and others, employees of other institutions, who have not used it. So, from that position, the thing is quite clear and we absolutely support it. I must say, when we initially supported this law, first of all, we relied on this attitude that is not only acceptable to us, but some policy that we absolutely advocate, because action is something that is not just a SPS policy, action is both in America and in the EU, something that even big capital owners force. Even they are interested that BMW workers, not to list all these companies, have an appropriate number of actions, to stimulate them to be interested in this production and that the company is doing it successfully. You can pronounce it past time, or social enterprises, or that law of ours, but I'm telling you, that's the way it is. If we want to fit into world trends, that's even in these changed conditions. Something we can't accept, and I accept even the responsibility of us at the SPS that we didn't see this amendment, but that we saw it yesterday, today, because when we talked about it on the Committee and on the parliamentary group, along with the minister, no one was paying attention and the minister didn't even explain the amendment. While I was listening to Minister Dinkic, I thought I'd check in with the Rules of Procedure, thinking he didn't know about this amendment either, so I finally heard that it was one of the important changes in this law, which is to be proposed in Article 9a, as an addition to this law, and not as a basic law, the possibility of privatisation in public enterprises up to 70% of capital. Gentlemen of the government's majority, does that mean that you're pushing for 70 percent of the HE "Gerdap" to be sold, "Costler" and "Term power plant"? That's what it says here. Is that the story about NIS, which we said we weren't up for and we'll never vote to sell more than 49%, does that mean that? Does that mean you want to sell the refinery-70%? If that means, the SPS won't support it. Therefore, we will not support this law if it remains 70%. As much as the state can give up ownership in companies and sell, it's 49%. Without 51% of state capital in Elektroprivreda, in refineries, there is no economic policy of any government, therefore neither of these nor of the future. These may not have to, but we also need to talk about future governments. No social policy, no possibility of social policy – since the price of electricity will be and how will the citizens of Serbia pay for it?- I'm sorry. When it comes to this 70% government amendment -- not that the SPS cannot support this amendment, but in that case we could not support this complete law unless the amendment is accepted. More specifically, there is now no amendment, except for the Committee's amendment, which has the right to propose an amendment up to 49% of privatisation in the meantime. Someone here can report in front of the government and say that we need a water line and some other companies, these secondary activities, these 37 companies in the framework of the ZTP, such as hotels, motels, tourist organisations, to privatise. This is not a problem, but the problem is in the strategic activities of public enterprises that cannot be privatised. But from this amendment to Article 9a, I don't understand why exactly the amendment if it's a strategic matter, where the amendment came from, and it's not in the basic law, that from this law to a small door the privatisation of refineries, NIS, Đerdapa, "Kostolaca", "Bajin Basta" and similar systems that Serbia has and loses the ability to conduct social and economic policies in this country. The SPS certainly, in that case, couldn't support the whole law, not just this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first of these four laws I will speak of is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. When the minister explained this law, he said the essence of the existence of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is to place funds for business activities, i.e. for the development of an economy mainly in areas that are not attractive for business banks to approve loans for those entering business, for beginners in business, and these are by the rule areas that are economically underdeveloped and which do not have a very great economic situation. Then it is entirely illogical for me to change certain things in Article 3 which, in the current law, have obliged the Fund to invest in underdeveloped areas, now delete it and give a general provision which undertakes by no means that the Fund's resources will be placed in these undeveloped or less developed areas. Article 1 already initially, which was a mistake, a law that is valid, and this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law, is said to encourage economic and regional development, employment, development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in the follow-up to the Fund. This "encouragement" shouldn't be, it would be much better to write in Article 1 to ensure equal incentives for regional development, because to encourage, it should be ensured to happen. I can now encourage, say, the minister to resign, but he won't, if I provide 126 MPs to vote then he will have to. You should be standing here to ensure that the Fund does what it's meant to do, not to encourage, and in fact, it probably won't. The whole position in the current Law on where underdeveloped areas are mentioned has been omitted. That, I said, has already been changed, and the minister says that there are considerable resources in the Fund, that they are large and then we are forced to conclude that the Fund works in fact as some kind of business society, which has a lot of capital and then, as they mentioned some local self-government, they hold in banks, they charge interest and thus increase funds. But it's not good for the Fund to have as much resources as possible. It is good that the Fund invests in the economy immediately. Then it would be the essence of the existence of the Fund. The minister boasts that the Fund has the resources. It would be better if he told us that the Fund does not have the funds right now, because everything that comes into the Fund in various ways, as the funds flow into the Fund, is being placed in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia at the same time. Of course he can't tell us that because it's not true. When it comes to loans that some of them are getting, I'll tell you on the Bora case one terrible thing, how these loans are wasted unintendedly. Namely, from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia two years ago, the loan was then granted to the municipality of Bor, the chairman of the Democratic Party's Municipal Committee, amounting to 3.6m for the opening of a dairy in the village of Metovnica. It's never been opened by a dairy, the loan was purposelessly spent, and of course it's open, of course, one car salon in Bora. And now, from these funds that the minister boasts and aimed at encouraging the employment of Bor, Kragujevac and Vranja, he has received an additional ten million dinars of credit. And you can imagine what's going to happen to that 10 million, when that 3.6 was accidentally spent and there's already some criminal charges against such non-intentional spending. But unfortunately, in small areas, everyone is connected and the prosecutor must not put it in the process and the one who would possibly judge, if he puts it, can't deal with it, there are simply blackmails of those who rule, so it's very difficult to carry out what you're saying in small areas. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises and carrying out activities of general interest, it is above all said that basic changes are in the existing law and that, in practice, the Ministry of Finance or at a wider level, the Republic should control how prices of services are raised in local public enterprises and thus control the level of wages etc. Now I would remind you of what the Dick was when the prime minister presented his exposés, when he said decentralisation between those three or four d's. How it happens to you when the finances are that decentralisation is not valid, and how it happens to you that whenever someone else mentions something that would strengthen the state then you say – see, it is for centralism. So this shows how much you really are for decentralisation, because if you did, you could really leave some parts to local self-government to really finish, if that's what the Law on Local Self-Government predicted. When it comes to the increase in wages you limit, I'll tell you that the biggest problem of local public enterprises is that they're mostly at the bar, after the previous local elections, a very broad coalition with many coalition partners. Practically, public enterprises, local companies, serve as reservoirs for accepting labour, employment, on various grounds, coalition partners, and therefore you can limit, you need to limit wages. For this year, you predicted, according to the minister, that they pay in local public enterprises, i.e. public enterprises can grow by 7% at the most. You see, you didn't predict well. You've designed it, but these local self-government people have seen exactly what the price increases are and what inflation is. Accordingly, since these are their favorites who are employed in local public enterprises, they have increased their salaries by following the cost of their lives. So you projected inflation that it wouldn't be this big, but it is, so there's a price hike. When it comes to the law on the prevention of money laundering, it's a law we haven't had so far. It is interesting that in Article 2, point 4 of this law, you say what money laundering is, in the sense of this law, that it will be considered – cover-up, in the process of property transformation of enterprises and other legal entities, illegally acquired social or state property and social or state capital. It's an honor to have you remember in time. When you sold out everything, when it all went to waste, when the most money laundering was practically through the robbery of social property and state property, you now remembered to install into the law that it would be considered money laundering. You should've done this a long time ago. In Article 3, you have a very reckless sentence, which is said to be: actions and measures to detect and prevent money laundering, and in the last row, it says: making deals that acquire property or other handling of the property. Making property deals can be totally regular and good jobs, because you can't ban people from doing jobs in order to fight money laundering or to prevent money laundering. So, in this last row in Article 3, it has to stand – making deals that are illegally obtained. I see you're not interested, you're not listening to me. Here's your mistake, you should've put that word in, because I don't know if it's an amendment. In Article 11, it is interesting that you are in a large number of taxpayers, and there you listed what it is, among other things, the bank and all those dealing with finance, that they will have in their ranks one or maybe two employees, perhaps three, a group of persons who will practically do one kind of spying. All those who are employed by the debtor, as it says here, must keep an eye on whether or not they have data and when it comes to data when it comes to some of this, money laundering, when it comes to the ability to prevent it, have to provide certain information to the authorities that are listed here; not that Article 11 will be determined by one or two people, I guess it's people from trusting the director or anyone in that obligor who will play a role in spying and reporting what's going on. Since we haven't had any agencies in a long time, here we form one administration and it seems to me that management is perhaps the greatest reason to form or pass one of these laws. In Article 13, the minister really takes a lot of responsibility on himself. They're no longer powers, but they're obligations. I remember earlier the finance law. Each other member concluded that the minister would prescribe a form, that the minister would edit closer, etc. and in Article 13, you have five items which the minister will specifically edit. I don't think you'll even remember any day of this law, because you'll have a lot of other obligations. In this bill of law on the prevention of money laundering, it's also interesting when it comes to surveillance, so it's said who can and should supervise everything. The supervision will be carried out by the National Bank and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Commission and the inspection bodies, within the framework of the powers of regulated law, etc. And the one who needs to deliver the data will find himself in a miracle to whom to deliver before, how you're going to keep that information up to date and have it all in one place and know that you're watching over this. Then you find one thing interesting, in the explanation, is that the bill on the prevention of money laundering to provide for the establishment of a money laundering agency as a management body within the Ministry of Finance, which performs tasks relating to the detection and prevention of money laundering. This is nothing strange, but it's said that management is established by this law. So, management doesn't exist. However, an analysis of the effects of the act, at the end of the law, says that the law, among other things, passed a public debate and that many gave it their opinion and that it was being completed, etc. All these meetings were organised by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the second time the administration organised a series of seminars for taxpayers at which the entities are listed to be familiar with the newspapers that exist in this system. How is it possible for this law to be established by the administration, and the administration has already had seminars and organised, and should be set up by this law. It was a commission, but it's not the same as management. So here it's not well written to you in this analysis of the effects of the law. Finally, it says, in an assessment of financial resources, it is necessary to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement the law on the prevention of money laundering. We've usually been written about how much money that would have been. But now it doesn't say, and you didn't tell us how much it was, you probably know. I assume you have a lot of data in your head. When you were talking about the bank law, the first part of the bank bill's reasoning, I'm convinced someone planted the paper on you yesterday when you explained the budget. More than half of that bank bill interpretation, look at the stenogram, from A to S you said what you said yesterday when you explained the budget here. You were talking about how much total savings, how much foreign savings, how much savings have grown since last year. This has nothing to do with this bill on banks, unless you wanted to make some introduction that was quite long, because later when you said something about this bank law, you reduced it to less than a quarter of the total bank speech. You know what, since we've established the Bank Rehabilitation Agency in our time, I'd like to ask you about the citizens of Bora, you've made a decision that the Bora Bank will be rehabilitated. But if you don't know what's going on with her right now, she doesn't exist. The business space has been sold out to party friends and colleagues, with no market value. Now come in as anyone will, there's nothing out of it, the workers are fired without any rights. They were promised that the bank would go into recovery, not bankruptcy. I don't understand why you've been lauding this bill so much with the commercial bank. You didn't do that. She was just as strong as she was when she was the former director. You're doing it now. In the last year since you've changed bank management and brought in some people who probably suit you either by cousin or by party or I don't know what relationships and then here you're praising the Commercial Bank. Remember, a year, a year and a half ago, she was hanging a noose on her neck, only you didn't want to tighten it, just like you did with these other banks. So to say what other radicals usually say, we won't vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21997	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and the Prophet of Rade. Probably the state of savings hasn't changed in 24 hours. Then Radmilo Milosevic. Here you go, Mr. Yaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21998	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, above all, citizens who are now members of the Assembly, because in these days they are laws that are very important to the citizens and, of course, because of them, we are passing these laws. In front of the G17 plus I will first of all address two laws, which is, the law on amendments to the Law on the Development Fund and on the other law that is in the proposal, which is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. G17 Plus will vote in favour of the law amending the Development Fund Act. As we do out of the importance of the law itself and not only for the Fund, but for the importance of the laws for the development of Serbia and for the citizens of this Republic themselves. The Development Fund was formed over 10 years ago. However, in this period where we are now, its significance may be much greater and will be more visible than in the earlier period. That's why there are pretty clear indicators, and I believe they really know that. In the previous period, the Development Fund influenced business development. In one period, it was social, state-owned, and more and more private enterprises. We now have a situation to determine the real purpose of the Fund by amending the law, which is the direct development of what is the potential, which is the future of Serbia and in which it should be invested. It is a private initiative as a certain future for Serbia's economic development. In the previous period (this is a fact that may not be very nice to hear) interest could be higher and still lower than the interest paid by commercial banks. However, this fact prevented the Development Fund from fully performing its role, that a large number of users, i.e. interested, of the Development Fund, would be someone who realised funds from the Fund. In this period we will have, as we already have, a reduction in the interest rates of the Development Fund, of course with a trend in the drop in interest rates of all commercial banks. This will certainly enable and give a boost to the real engagement of the Development Fund, the growing number of users, and entrepreneurs and those of small and small and small larger firms, to make it more favourable than commercial banks do, take those funds and use them to develop their firm. As a result, the Development Fund will appear as a development bank for the first time in this country, as the law provides. So what exists in some other countries, however, will not be called that, will continue to be called the Development Fund, but we will have one real development bank that will, above all, have not only this banking interest, but will have, above all, this interest in Serbia's development, entrepreneurship and at all, the development of the economy and incentivisation of the economy. For the amendments to this law, there is also something that may not have been defined in the clearest way so far in the work of the Development Fund itself, which is in Article 2. The bill, the regional development in Serbia, which the Development Fund must practically have the strongest influence since there is an imbalance in economic development, i.e. economy and overall development in Serbia. The Development Fund, as a state body, must carry out precisely through changes to this law, following fully what has been defined, primarily by Article 2 of this Law. So, to be a real incentive for regional development. There were stories and doubts in part as to whether this regional development would be properly determined, that is, a centre in which the Development Fund will operate. We have a real situation, I just said it, that not all regions are equally developed or equally undeveloped. Now we're talking about underdevelopment first. However, I think that all colleagues, primarily colleagues from G17, absolutely agree that the government will take care of the criteria that the funds (and the Fund's board of directors is thus defined, that the government or part of the government) will be given to those regions that are less developed than they are. This is what we are bound to, in the end, by certain intensities of the Council of Europe itself, which in its policy, especially in recent years, demonstrates this very desire to equate regional development. Given that I am a representative of Serbia in the Council of Europe, I have had many times the opportunity to make sure that the various measures the Council of Europe makes, including resolutions and declarations, refer exactly to the equalisation of this regional development, which is, after all, natural. Europe right now has this desire to equate the development of this entire territory, which is clear, at the end of the 21st century. Everyone wants this Europe to become, at least on a development concept, a single territory. We also have a proposal in this amendment to the Law – how the Development Fund is managed and financed (i.e. Article 3.), which says that the main funds provided by the Fund come from the annuities achieved on the basis of credit ratings. This is again about what I just said that the Fund is practically now being directed as a national, state-owned development bank. In practice, we raise, at least that's how I experience it, one more serious and responsible fund management policy and asset management, because, in a practical way, since the state no longer participates, we force people who work in the Fund, who run the Fund, in the end, to deal in a more serious way with the funds that are placed. A few years ago, someone was talking about misusing these funds and not using them the right way. So this provision has one seriousness and greater responsibility in governance, because people who manage the Fund will have the greatest inflow from the annuities already achieved, so those funds that have been made, of course, by asking that those funds be returned. This is the essence of another member of the law, which refers to the fact that it is now the first time since the Fund is practically set up, the budget does not involve financing the Fund itself. So the Fund is relying on those assets that already exist. Also, there is one thing that needs to be clarified – so the Fund's funds will not be reduced in this way, because the Fund is practically a credit institution, it is not used for spending funds, but for crafts. I'm going back to that principle you see from this law, which is the setting up of a new state-owned development bank. The funds in the Fund are turning, so they're not standing. To be clear, there were speakers who talked about it, the Fund doesn't spend its resources, they turn around, they practically go back and, of course, they increase, they increase with the least possible interest rates that can currently be applied to a much smaller one than the commercial bank, but they are turning around. The budget remains for the first time relieved of these commitments, so that budget funds do not have to be used for these purposes, as enough already is already in the Fund-based craft. Budget funds can be used (for those things where, above all, they are non-refundable, to which, ultimately, the state budget) to finance those actions that exist in the state, such as education, health, police, incentive measures, etc. Also, about the very purposes of the Fund. So, the Fund gets smaller funding, considering it's not going to get funding from the budget, but it's just fictitious. The Fund will be able to be a channelling agent, i.e. a distributor of funds from these macro self-employment loans. It will be state-owned, and it will not enter the Fund, but will direct the Fund. There, too, is the Fund and how it plays that development role. It does not violate the principle that the budget is financed, but it will also affect the distribution of certain state development funds through it (and the funds that exist in this draft budget) for so-called. regional development. As regards the Law on Public Enterprises, i.e. the exercise of activity of general interest, I do not know how many MPs in this House have dealt with or are currently engaged in local policy, i.e. local or municipal authority and how much opportunity it has to directly monitor what is happening in the local government. However, no matter how many people have had the opportunity to enter, a few facts stand not as one's fiction, but as a clear fact, that in the past ten months over the rise in the price of municipal services have practically increased by 30%, so almost a third in the last ten months the prices of municipal services have increased. These are services that all households, not individuals, in Serbia pay to municipalities, they differ. But what was recorded, in the previous year, their growth was much higher than most of the prices were other products, either services. In this increase in prices, public enterprises themselves, the fact is, all those who are in any way related to local self-government, they know that, 32% took part in the salary increase. So, wages are practically more in municipal enterprises, or municipal structures, increased by 32% than in any other activity and activity in Serbia. There's no big philosophy here, or we shouldn't be chasing each other. The sessions and activities of local self-government are completely public, so the citizens know, because they were witnesses on all these transfers of local sessions and know how local self-government works. This principle, of course, is not good and in a large number of local self-governments, I'm not saying that it happened everywhere, but in those local environments where it happened, the citizens are, of course, insecure and today they are. Therefore, there are often certain intensities to some changes, either by the government itself, or by certain representatives. Because these salaries, whether their salaries, were paid to public enterprises, which they run, went beyond the measures citizens experienced as their own, increases, receipts, or as some medium salary increase in the Republic itself. What is positive and what should definitely be pointed out here are the few principles provided for by this law: that local self-government will have an obligation to make plans by the end of the year, or 31 December; public enterprises to make plans for activities and work for the following year. This fact was used by the government in proposing this law. In many public companies, there are no appropriate labour plans that are challenging and lead to the situation that local public enterprises function very quietly; which is not an opportunity for committees and citizens to see how these funds are implemented, which are the programmes for which the committees should vote, and what are the programmes that citizens will see tomorrow as those activities that public enterprises are carrying out for them and from which citizens should benefit. The untimely adoption of plans causes the funds that public enterprises receive from local self-government to be spent by the mimi of any control. It is a fact that is fully present and that is what we and the citizens of the municipalities are aware of. So it's being spent beyond control, because there are no plans, you don't know at all which way, or what amount of funds are being spent and what is the purpose. With this, we will have an obligation, i.e. local self-government, that is no choking of their independence, but seeking responsibility to deliver their plans by 31 December of the previous year, for the following year. Regarding these plans, only another control that I think citizens are asking, from the state, above all, to control the increase in the price of municipal services and to control the increase of profits in local self-government, or in public enterprises. It's a thing that, unfortunately, the government has registered that it has not been in this period so far. In the end, the government is responsible that, in the event of a breach of what was given in the plan and programme, which was adopted in the local self-government and given to the Government, therefore, it takes certain measures and thus forces local self-government to apply these plans. To be in these plans what is related to the prices of services and to the wages being in line with what are state programs. There isn't, I have to say, that's what the government was talking about, conditioning the government towards the independence of local self-government. It was said that the government was blackmailing, in a way, local self-government that they had to reduce the number of employees. I know that this is not the case, because the government only gave some kind of recommendation to local self-government to reduce the number of employees as it was in state public enterprises and institutions, but it was not an order from the government. Indeed, the government has never interfered with any decision that the number of people will work in local self - administrations, or public enterprises. This is about one thing, and it is that the government has, by this bill, limited the salary growth in public utility companies to, some, 9%, or on September of the month, not even on the last salary, but on September of the month of this year, but it is an indirect consequence of the pay increase in the number of employees, to make it clear. Therefore, if public companies reduce the number of employees, they will be able to increase their salaries more to their employees, or to those who work in public enterprises. So there's no direct conditioning. Local self-governments do not have to reduce the number of employees in their administration or in public enterprises, but if the number is reduced, they will be able to raise their salaries. The price of services, which is mentioned here, in public utility companies there have been stories of what affects them: it affects both the price of fuel and the price of water, some other energys such as electricity, but we know that this is not the only reason for increasing the price of utility services. Unfortunately, service prices often increase because there are no adequate quality plans for realisation in public enterprises, or municipalities; there is very often one symmetry in what needs to be done. This is reflected by increasing prices, not the quality of work in public enterprises, not the way in which certain plans and programmes are organised and implemented, and it is absolutely unacceptable. So if it is going to increase the quality of the organisation of the work of public enterprises, i.e. the state apparatus, it has to be done by utility companies, and not by compensating them, and by failing them, by doing so by increasing the price. The price is paid, there's an increase, or any other, of citizens, and it's directly reflected in them. When the prices of utility services are also at stake, unfortunately, I say again, some phenomena that talk about the abuse of tender, about the abuse of public procurement. That is what all those who are eager to abuse their local government do and in this way spend the resources of citizens, by demanding an increase in prices to settle the situation. Often these are agreements, conversations, and all that was not in accordance with the Public Procurement Act or some other law. Therefore, it does not only affect service prices, which are real increases in the price of imputants in public utility companies, but also other things that I was talking about. In any case, I would like to welcome what the government has proposed, that employees in public enterprises can participate with 15% in the division of actions. I think it's an emergency that's been public for a long time. I think that would lead to equalisation and enforcement of certain social justice, so that employees in public enterprises can be quite satisfied with what the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u21999	To the Serbian government, welcome to the letter, and now the word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and Radmilo Milosevic, then Zoran Krasic, after Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22000	The President of Parliament is losing his good practice, and the rich and the business obligation to discuss government proposals without an authorised promoter, or representative. We have a law here to introduce Minister Bubalo, and they say he's in America. I don't know how this very law has been settled now that Minister Bubalo has promised here that never again until the minister is discussed on his proposal to amend and supplement the law, that every time he does so, he will do a whole, completely new law. If the minister were here, I'd have to tell him he's lying, and now I'm telling him, he's gone to get a haircut? It's possible, as long as they don't cut it. So today we have a united discussion of four laws that do not have the closeness provided for by the Rules of Procedure, or the link provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly so that we can conduct a united debate on these proposals. Secondly, as our rules of procedure are regulated, imagine that SRS MPs have 72 seconds to discuss this package, which means 18 seconds per MP for each bill. This is really something amazing, but well, we've organized ourselves as a well-organized parliamentary group, arranged, so you'll hear what we think of all these suggestions. The Fund, or the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia – why has it changed, what was the essence of the amendment of this law, will you see? Minister Dinkic said the role of the Fund is to increase employment and exports, and my question, ministers – what has been the interference so far? So far we've had the Fund, why didn't you hire, what you fired, what you imported, what you didn't export, what you shut down production, what you didn't produce?- I'm sorry. So you didn't have any legal interference and I don't know what this law is going to bring about. I'll have a few members, which we've already submitted to, to draw attention. First of all, to Article 2 who is very dangerous, because he's talking about Article 3 of the Basic Law. In Article 2, Minister, you may not know this, since the Bugalo is not here, you have nicely erased Kosovo and Metohija from this unity of Serbia. It is very dangerous and I ask all Members of the People to read Article 2. A suggestion to think something like this shouldn't go away. In Article 3, you have left out – you are talking about funds for the Fund's operations and it is very interesting for us from the SRS that you have not thought that part of the privatisation funds should be in this fund. I guess it makes sense that the privatisation funds are returning to the further development of the economy. You're not going to spend everything that's been privatized, even if it's just a big deal, through the budget. You should take care of yourself. Velimir Simonovic, from the scene, throws. Have you made any comments? I think you've reached out to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22001	Please, Miss Radeta. I'm warning all MPs, several times already. It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22002	It's not right, take care of the Rules of Procedure. So we proposed to delete Article 4, because it is also our position, Minister, that the Fund cannot still function without funds from the budget. This is foreseen in several members of this amendment and supplement law. We think there must still be an opportunity to finance part of the budget. You didn't predict even the control of the use of funds from this fund, and we thought it would be good to have it in front of the National Assembly once a year mandatory. I don't know how this fund can function without any control. Article 8 provides for a fund management body. Imagine who's gonna be in the fund management body. The board of directors and six members, acting as economy ministers, finance, science, capital investment, economic relations with abroad, agriculture, forestry and water industry, are responsible for the work. This is really inappropriate. You could have said nicely that the management fund was a government, except for that minister of faith who sat here today in the afternoon's debate. So, this is a bad proposal, we're not voting for him, and it would be good if I called him here to pull him out of the process. We have an interesting bill, which actually shows all the hypocrisy of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It is a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. Now you have suggested some cosmetic changes to this law in Article 1. In a way, quite imprecisely, and in some poor order, you said what it is to do with this fund. You didn't specify exactly what the board of directors should be doing, the board of directors. The programme of public enterprises is also completely inaccurate. It's all camouflage and the essence of which is why you're actually, which is why the government has proposed to us to amend this law. Not because of what's in the law itself, but because of Amendment 2. The governments of the Republic of Serbia. Amendment 2 refers to Article 5.It is said that after Article 5, subtitle and Article 5a is added (and then refers again to Article 9 of the Basic Act) and it is said that, in public enterprises and enterprises with a majority share of state capital, the sale is not more than 70% of the government capital that is privatised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the government is willing to play with these things and in this way definitely ends Serbia economically, and I fear not only economically, then I urge you as representatives of the people to be more serious and not to accept this government amendment. The government probably thought this amendment was getting through, like, undetected. The MPs will like to discuss the bill, no one will pay attention, since it has already become the usual for the government to propose a bill, and then edit it in amendment, but you have predicted, gentlemen of the government, that strategic goods, which should never be privatised by more than 49 per cent, will be privatised by someone buying them with more than 70 per cent of the capital and then Serbia has none of it. It is clear to us that this is the introduction to the sale of NIS, it is clear to us that this is the introduction to sales and electricity and water, we will not be surprised when we find out very soon: "A from Godfather" – the electricity system of Serbia! Under these conditions, we in the SRS are calling on all MPs, we are addressing the public of Serbia to draw attention to this great danger that is overcoming over Serbia this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia! I hope that the MPs will be more serious than the government they elected and will not vote in favour of this amendment. We also have a bill here to prevent money laundering. This is the story of a rabbit and a cabbage. Who in this government is able to prevent money laundering, it's a really special story and a special question, especially when you see how you foresee the formation of a committee to prevent money laundering. You did not foresee it at all to be an independent commission, responsible only to the Serbian Parliament. You didn't predict that members of the commission couldn't be blood relatives. You did not predict that members of the commission should not be convicted for some of the crimes close to this job. You didn't predict any technical equipment should have a member of the commission. You didn't predict that he should have a general working capacity. It's just amazing what and who you government gentlemen are playing with. Do you want to try to hide many of the affairs raised by these diabolical governments from 2000 to today under the rug, as well as some of the commissions you've formed so far? And a lot of money was laundered in that time, and you know it well. And the Burning Machine, of course. I'm asking you what we're gonna do with that money, what about your friends Hamovic and Lazarevic? What about your new friend Karic and his seven thousand euros a day from Mobtel? Half of it's state money. What about funding the National Office, one unconstitutional, illegal phenomenon, how do we finance it from the budget? And that's money laundering. What about that money that washes Maria Rashet at the airport, buying that 65 grand ficus, a tablespoon for 650 dinars, etc.? So again, you're trying to distract the people with a story about some commissions, and you'd better not influence the judicial authorities, the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution and let them do their job. I fully understand the anxiety of some MPs, they may be afraid that the money laundering of parties that they gave to some MPs to move from party to party will be questioned. Maybe it comes under attack, too. In the end, we have a bill on banks. We Serbian radicals have shown our relationship to this law, in the way we normally do when the government tries to plant something like this law on us. I will remind you that we received the Bill of Banks on Friday, after 18.00 hours, that this was done to make it impossible for us to properly prepare and discuss this law and amendment, because we have a lot of objections to this law. We therefore wrote amendments to all the members, suggested that each member should be deleted individually, so that we could explain what we actually think about both the law in general and the law in particular. However, I must say, challenged and challenged by Prime Minister Dinkic's opening statement, a very nice story about banks, as if Serbian citizens had forgotten that January 2002, when Mladjan Dinkic destroyed four of Serbia's largest banks, when he introduced various Belgrade banks into Serbia. Then he boasts that saving is 2 billion and 80 million. I ask, what I asked this morning, Mladjan Dinkic to tell us, as he praises the Commercial Bank here, that there are 40m euros in savings in that bank. Minister, do you know how many Commercial Banks have issued a rival card, since their deposit is for these cards 300 euros, and that is also part of the savings, such as part of the savings deposit for the consumer credits that Serbian citizens are taking? So don't deceive the public of Serbia and say that 2 billion are the right savings, what remains for the citizens -- from such "great" wages, so they can save. Unfortunately, citizens can't make ends meet, let alone save. You can have one number, and these are close to you on a variety of grounds. They probably save and can save, but this parliament and the Serbian government should work in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, not just one piece, or one layer of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22003	The word is made by Minister Dinkic, then by MP Radmilo Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22004	Here's the answer to this last one. You've been asking the same question twice already. So 2.8 billion euros is on 14 November 2005, saving Serbian citizens in banks in Serbia. On the same day of 2000, the savings amounted to 20m euros. It is true, meanwhile, that about 3 million different cards were issued and I am proud of that, for the simple reason that in this country the cards were in the 1990s, when we were leading the whole region, before the former SFRY fell apart. Then we were on our way to a good path and then we had this period of 10 years. We've returned the credit cards to the payload again. As you know, the state froze in April 1991 about 8.7 billion German marks at that time to save the population. She didn't pay anything or anything until December 2000, and then she started paying off. A billion euros has been paid to a close with this year. That was the basic reason why people started putting money into banks again. Of course, banking products developed. As for these large four state banks, which were large only on paper, they had an 80% balance sheet of the total banking system in the 1990s. However, they accumulated huge losses. Their losses amounted to 4 billion euros the moment we made the decision in late 2001 to drive them into bankruptcy. If it hadn't been for the bankruptcy of the four major state banks, today Serbian citizens would not have kept these 2.8 billion in accounts, today there would be so many consumer loans, there would be no housing loans at all. We'd have one mistrust in the banking system, because you could go to the counters on big state banks, and they were big in the '70s, but they went down during the '90s. Simply, the only solution was bankruptcy. I think it was one of the best moves of my career. I'll always say that, since you keep returning that question. The closure of four major state banks and the closure of the remaining 21 banks, I closed 25 banks as governor of the Central Bank, was the basis for having the fastest development of the banking sector of all other countries in transition. At present, the banking sector is the most valuable and best we have in our economy. I wish the economy was going at that pace. I will do my best, as this debate will continue next week, to deliver to all MPs the savings structure, how many deposits, how many deposits up to a year, over a year. Of course it's the data we all need to see and know. I don't have that information. These are the data I got today from the NBS. I'll ask them to give me a detailed structure. Anyway, it's a far larger number, people than I have as friends, who save in our banks. I'm saying again, I'm talking about the Commercial Bank, and it doesn't, you probably made a lapus, it's not 40 million, 400 million euros is saving citizens at the Commercial Bank. I mentioned it because it's like a domestic bank still better and stronger than banks with majority foreign capital. So people trust her more and they put more money into saving. The conditions for the Commercial Bank to go beyond Serbia's borders have finally been created. It wouldn't have been possible if there hadn't been a change in that old management, because a lot of things have progressed over the last year with a whole new management. People who run the Commercial Bank aren't party people, I can tell you right now, they're professionals. It is the only way for a company or a bank of public interest to be managed successfully, not by party people, but by professionals who only care about the interests of their institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22005	Thank you for your correctness in the exchange of information. By the way, I think there's a report and it can be made available to you through the Finance Committee, the annual report the NBS filed. The word is made by the MP Radmilo Milosevic, and then by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22006	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'll try not to speak too long, so I don't take this time away from you, we've already been 1900 hours. I'd just like to say something about the Development Fund. There's been a lot of remarks here that it's a shame that the Fund still doesn't finance itself from the budget. However, I think 450m euros, which now exist in the Fund, are quite enough and not a lack of money, but a lack of ideas. My proposal is to make the Development Fund a strong professional service. What's the problem? We're saying that these are usually undeveloped neighborhoods, where there are no professional people, and where people have ideas. They've been traveling around the world, they've seen something being produced somewhere, they've been gastarbitters, if nothing else, but they come to the Development Fund, they've brought some of their projects, and they say -- you haven't put a decimal where you should, you didn't write it right, you go to this counselor, you give it a thousand euros, then he'll do it to you. I think that's what professional services should do at the Development Fund. To encourage these people who have ideas, when they come to the Fund for Development with an idea of what they want to produce, if the Fund's professional services tell them – yes, this is a good project, with this project you can secure your profits, provide money to repay credit and pay interest, then many more people will report, free people and come to the Fund with their ideas. I would be delighted if one day the Development Fund would inform the Assembly here that there are 1,000 projects that can re-emerge Serbia without having the money to fund them. I think that all the parliamentary groups would at that moment schedule the Assembly and demand that this law be amended, the budget rebalance and everything to help these people. I still think we're missing an idea, not money. As far as the law on public enterprises is concerned, I think it's an extremely good law and a positive law. I've been in local self-government for four years, and it's not a bad intention at all. I'd like these to work better today than I do. It is not an evil intention, but simply, when the prices are made and formed that the Assembly brings the price of water, the price of sewage, the purity, the connections to the gas, we take off in neighboring municipalities and we ask – how much do you charge, they say some price and we therefore form prices, not entering in that municipality where the drinking water is 30 dinars per cubic, whether it is a natural source, how much they use chemicals to get to drinking water, how much it costs them to maintain a station filter, whether water is transferred 30, 40 kilometers from the city and how much electricity they spend. If local self-government and public enterprises whose founder is local self-government are due to form their prices by 1 December and according to the competent ministries to send it, the competent water ministry is well aware of every city that is a water supply problem, how much is a liter of water and will certainly bring a reasonable price for water in all cities. I have another experience where two public enterprises in my municipality, one came with a proposal, came the union, the director to raise salaries because they have 40% less salaries than another public company; they brought me a list of that other public company as the director has 22,345 dinars, the technical director of 19,218 dinars, and they attack me to let them do it because they're friends there, and these aren't my friends. I thought it was true, because the figures, they're not said to have 22,000, but 22,345 dinars -- I'm going straight to the utility company, to see what it is, and someone gave them out of the municipal company gross wages. They grossly raise their wages. So it's very good here that by December 1st we have to propose plans, profits and wages, and then we'll see what their salaries are and whether they can increase and whether they're large, to reduce. As far as the government's amendments are concerned, there's been a lot of controversy. I think this amendment was more like saying that 30% of public companies will be free of charge to workers, 15% to workers and 15% to non-employees, and this doesn't mean that this up to 70% will be sold at 70%. The state can decide to sell only 19% and make the state the majority owner of 51%, no matter what small shareholders do with their actions. I think there's only going to be a debate about it. I'd like the minister to say that. That's how I realized that amendment to the government. I'm not gonna take up any more of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22007	He doesn't have to be a minister. I think it can be freely on behalf of the MPs, either in one way, or in another way 30% of the action through the law will be divided, either through the laws that are in the procedure or the next. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, then by Rajko Baralic, then by Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22008	Since the SRS has submitted amendments to the Bill of Banks, there will be a lot of amendments, so it is illusory to waste time on the bill. I'd like to go first with the bill on preventing money laundering. At first, I'd have to commend the master of the SRS who was tasked with handling this, so, here, Mr. Dinkic, what your colleague says. The ministry should explain the correct translation of the title of Directive 91 308, theirs or the one in the white book. In 2001, your colleagues published that white book, and it was about joining the European Union, the Institute of Economic Sciences, because these translations disagreed. As far as the international organisation FATF is concerned, it is not accepted at all because its members are 31, and there are no such countries as China, India, Israel and I do not order any further. Member States' banking and financial systems such as Saudi Arabia, where Sharia law applies, where interest is forbidden, is hardly related to this right of ours, and the EGMONT Group has several members among them, including the Cayman and Virgin Islands, Mr Dinkic, who are commonly known for money laundering. So these are washing machines. Comes dirty, cleans up and comes clean. Then, at the very least, this organization has failed to prevent money laundering, or it may be used for other purposes for which both these islands and this entire group are known, which is intelligence work. For an explanation for members, say, 21st and 22nd. The finance ministry has given some explanation, and I comment on your explanation of the bill that it's hard to find anything to comment on, it's so confusing. The explanation of Article 24 shows how extensive the Ministry of Finance is in determining the obligations of other state authorities and bonds, as you call them in the law. It's just as short to explain the obligations of foreign entities. This is a huge lack of this bill because foreign entities are protected as rare beasts to serve as examples. Members of 26th and 27th, in their explanation, point out that you, Mr Dinkic, are in a fight with the minister of justice because you accuse him of disobeying the European Union's regulations, members of 28th and 29th. Instead of using some English terms, it would be better if you reduced what you want to be your authority. In explaining the effects of this law, it is not clear that the application of the new law will cost less citizens and businesses. It is in the light of the effects, when it is said to finance law enforcement through funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's something virtual about you. Now, let me point out to you a few members, since we have not broken something with the amendments, and there has been a need with respect and the fact that we have signed appropriate international acts, which we have undertaken to prevent money laundering through regulations, through organisation and through co-operation with relevant institutions abroad, because it is not internal, but it is increasingly and mainly with us and the problem that comes from abroad. So, let's say in Article 1(2), Mr. Minister, you don't know what you mean by this, the jurisdiction of the other authorities. That's very confusing. In Article 2, where you give some elements and criteria on which to define what everything is meant by money laundering, so that there is no confusion, this is not a bad translation but simply adopted, such a termology, you have almost forgotten the term of the funds. It can be interpreted as one of the synonyms referred to in points (1) to (4). What is not clear in attitude 2 is not clear what you mean when you claim other documents here. In Article 3, you don't know what you mean when you say second-hand property treatment. Property is a set of property rights, it's too wide. Whoever wrote this got mixed up in here. In Article 4, you had to in some way make it clear that all of this you wrote, which is less acceptable with one big remark, because what is in attitude 1 and what is in attitude 3 seems contradictory; because in attitude 1 there are legal persons, and in attitude 3 is considered to be a debtor and someone else who is not only a legal person, but is both an entrepreneur and a natural person. You had to in some way point out that this provision applies to the party and to the domestics. Perhaps many colleagues have not noticed, Article 5 has a great shortage. I think this amount of 15,000 euros is too low. Why? That should go down to about 5,000 euros, because we've seen some of our politicians compromise by tens of thousands of euros, like that Ericson, you remember, Mr. Minister. At the time of the restoration, the one holding his foot up, because of the bloodstream, provided funding for his daughter's scholarship, and these fines are money laundering, except for him offering a much bigger service for those money laundered ones. However, in the same attitude, we do not understand why you did not mention a number there and there was a number to be mentioned. In each transaction, independent of the value of the transaction, if suspected of having to do with a transaction or a party. Here, this is contradictory of the previous one. You had to give some limitation, because this whole law was practically built on a system without restrictions. Mr. Minister, what you stated in article 6, the last position, I have to inform the public, he either needs to be deleted or should be re-formed in some way. Maybe it's even better to delete. Why? It's just a huge corruption of governments in the EU. Now I'm going to read you the examples. European Commission President Barroso's case, European Trade Commissioner Peter Mendelson - embezzlements of top UN officials with the Food Oil Programme. The problems of financing the OSCE set up by the Russian Federation, etc. In that group, I could place other sounds known to you for belonging to Committee 300, Bilderbeg's group and not order any further. And not to mention Opus Dei, with over 3,000 of his institutes and a branched network that covers the globe, and your dear George Soros, who has not earned a single dollar in his life in a fair way, not a single dollar, remember, no dollar. You've had to include these members, and you're probably familiar with the case of a major affair that not even representatives of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina can resolve yet. There are several court disputes in Sarajevo, just to mention the name, Hasan Cengic. So, 1,000 dollars was given to anyone who shoots Serbs, and 2.5 billion dollars was washed from Austria. You probably know the case of an armed plane in Ljubljana, which is also part of the money laundering. Two more major affairs related to our space, which is about money laundering. One is "Astra" Zagreb, which had documentation on money laundering and arms imports; it was the documentation on Plitvice Lakes, and on March 2, 1991, the conflict fell out. I have to say, the Vatican Bank, it has a dispute in America about washing fascist treasures, and even Condoleezza Rice Voitilly wouldn't provide protection, to stop that court dispute. It's a similar situation with giants in the production and transport of cigarettes. That's familiar. Five groups, five roads pass through the Balkans and a major dispute in New York because one Supreme Court judge has allowed the proceedings against the world's top ten tobacco producers to launder money. In that group, your friend Milo Djukanovic, his sister, twice a year, jumps over a bar in Italy to pay off the prosecutor, not to mention her brother for at least six months. Don't worry, there won't be a referendum in April of the month, it's delayed until later, after some groups have prepared Mr. Djukanovic, because the topic will open, and in this topic is also Happy Kestner, the late Vanja Bocan, and I'm not telling you, Mr. Minister. You had to know that because you cooperated not with these people, but with the reference to that Wolf Minic, it was that he had to know these things. By the way, this Balkan initiative and that group that's following these women, BIRT, and that's also a big money launderer. In these large money laundering can be settled and if you have completed the task, you can be proud of the banking system, but not Serbia, but abroad. The internal banking system is protected in our country. These little banks of ours, you see for themselves, must be sold out and sold out as soon as possible. So we're a nice foreign banking market. Mladjan Dinkic has made it possible to develop the banking system he is proud of, because he destroyed not only those four but almost all of our banks. Next, not to forget, since I'm on this money laundering issue right now. We will be presenting documents and documentation not only of the committees of inquiry, but of the completed court cases. Next, what does this fellow magistrate of yours say? He says this, on the occasion of article 7, you did not state, for example, in attitude 4, which would be objective reasons when a written statement of authority is accepted. All these companies are operating under the power of attorney system. You know that. You remember one of the lawyers, the owner of some law firm in Nicosia, was also president, and I think he's the president now. You probably know him. His wife is the main shareholder of Coca Cole. It's all familiar. You know for a fact that the real owner is on paper in the safe. You brought those big boxes that you took from the embassy and Coby, as they were, COBY, 60, 70, and you threw some boxes here, and that's 80 long meters when you sorted out the complete paperwork. Even there's that famous warrant by the National Bank of Serbia 1054, about carrying out effective money. You know well, Mr. Minister, where the money is and on which island and who had to charge a billion and something that Americans and English, since it is the founder of that bank in Cyprus of the largest English bank, it is known to the ministers. What are the objective reasons why you can accept a statement of authority? You've given broad authority to somehow depend on you. How will it be determined, if there are more related companies, more types of shares, and everything relates to Article 7. Maybe not attitude four, but there's someone there. It says, "The malversions with allegedly independent islands are known, where money is laundered." Here the law must be the most extensive and strictest, not to introduce objective reasons and allow the party not to attend, but to carry out the affairs through its power of attorney. Do you use this law to make of-shore Serbia? We know you've been building an offshore bank, an off-shore exchange office, and there's no math coming together. In that book of yours you said - two billion euros, or marks, citizens have in straws. Later, you were startled, there was a lot more. Later, when the conversion for the euro went, when it was taken away and collected, plus minus minus, that came out about three billion, probably mob money was legally spilled through Serbia in the new democracy system, not the liberals, but this wave that hit us, like the tsunami hit us. Of course, in Article 8, this amount should probably be from 15,000 euros, due to Labus, to be taken down to 5,000 euros. In Article 10, I would recommend that you put this period of 72 hours at 48, it's too long a deadline, a team before it's already done, not to go into details. There are four positions, where exactly the procedure is prescribed what is necessary before to do to get to this provision where this deadline is applied. Article 12 indicates that the Ministry of Finance has this tendency to control itself. We have the Ministry, so within the Ministry of Administration, and now the Ministry controls its administrations. In particular, it controls this administration that is totally related to the ministry. When you say, "Government," I don't want to call you here, but I don't think you've had a good look at the State Administration Act and the Civil Service Act. In that sense, if you respond to what Mrs. Radeta just said about the composition, and what she said was more about an independent commission that would do this job, it doesn't matter what it's called, but when this concept of yours is really declassified, because this is where the Law on Civil Service or the Law on State Administration should be applied. But that's what you're going to solve within your circles. Rule 13, I'm not clear on my last position. It's all derrogated, passed on to someone else, all someone else responsible, obliged to follow, etc. And management and the ministry are something, so they're looking at it from some height, whether it's going to be normal. So it turns out that you're not the preventative authority, but the money laundering control, because you've raised yourself to an independent position. You can always hold everyone's pack, especially in the surveillance provisions – the Ministry, and the National Bank, however they want, can only go. What stands in the last position is that management is not necessary at all, as everything is determined by the minister. How can the minister determine training? I guess there are regulations that regulate it. The last sentence in this article is pushing, devising all previous members of the law, as the minister will have the right to release all transactions, even those greater than 15,000 euros. Did you see what was written in the last attitude? Depending on your will, it can be 20,000 euros, no, there's no obligation, it can go on like this, if you're doing it for BIA, military, CIA, SHIK, it's this Shiparian. Who are you bringing this in for? I guess it's all applied to everything. The law is objectively applied. Now you've said it's up to the Young People, we're not going to control this transaction, it's legal. Why? She's legal by type, by subject, by the amount and by my choice. That's how it turns out after what you wrote. "As well as cases where certain bonds are not required by the Administration to report cash transactions of a total amount of 15,000 euros or more in dinar equivalent." So, Hamovici -- go to Mladja's, take whatever you want into your suitcase. You can't do that, Minister. In Article 14(4) and (6), with small shades, they are almost identical. But this 7th one indicates that this is not the authority of the administration, but it could only be the jurisdiction of the MUP, probably what you call UBPOK, BIA, that you have some degree of co-operation with those institutions. This is how you turned things around. You're the ringleader, and these come as your executive bodies, as helpers. I know you like it for a while -- kill it, kill it that it doesn't exist, but there must be some order. Recently passed the Police Act. I get the impression you're going to fight with Jocic about these things. In Article 15 — to erase the first attitude, since demagogy failed. "The director of the Board, depending on the need for work, determines the work and after hours, on Saturdays and Sundays, as well as on holidays." We have the Labour Act, the Civil Service Act, the State Administration Act, why you especially need to regulate some issues regarding employment relations. It's about the first attitude. In the second attitude, indicate which jobs (this is incompatible), and it is said: "jobs that are incompatible with his work in the Administration and with the work of the Administration". What kind of jobs are incompatible? Are you going to use the archaic conflict of interest that is present here? That's where you were wrong. There is no work in a foreign bank, part-time, business, friendly, non-governmental organisations – it is cancer-earth Serbia, Biserko, BKV and others; international financial institutions, each representing themselves – Djordje Djordjevic – it represents world banks; Elena – a representative and that institution. Please don't do that. You would have put these from the NGOs in this administration of yours. We can't let you do that. In Article 16, paragraphs 2 and 3 are in conflict with each other. There should be an eight-day or no deadline. To further order, Article 17 - it would be enough to simply indicate that the administration is obliged to notify some authorities, not to open this issue up to detail, as we will discuss the amendment to discuss it. Article 20 - repeats what is in Article 14. That's unnecessary. Article 21 -- evidence that the administration should not be under the Ministry of Finance, but a government body, where it will be representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and others. It's a vision that has a foothold in parallel practice, Mr. Minister. It has a foothold in parallel practice. Don't throw that out. The fact that you think everything is legal, well organized, if it's under your control, it's your feeling, but the state doesn't operate based on the feeling of the Prime Minister, the Minister or that Government of Jankovic. No, I don't. The state is one serious system, one organism that has many times to do things that individuals in power don't even respond to. But it has to, because the state exists and operates on the basis of objective standards. Article 22, as well as Article 21, is an example of the Hossion Proposer of the Law, i.e. The Ministry of Finance. According to him, all the authorities in the state are obliged to carry out the tasks of the finance minister, that is, not only in this bill, every law in which you interfered, with something, you seduced the order, everything under your control. To finish, Mr. Minister, this is a bad bill, tendingly bad, tendingly designed to be bad, it's full of demagogy, like – you're fighting some crime. A weak 'ere of your struggle, hitting small businessmen, burdening them with obligations. I take it apart, if you think I'm protecting some criminals, it's not my intention, everyone knows that, probably you know that, frees the administration of her duties, and gives great authority to the minister. I don't know how you manage to support these public procurements, and customs, and taxes, there's tobacco, and there's no smoker. It really can't. He can't, he doesn't hit the money launderers. This law doesn't touch them at all. Why isn't he touching them? Remember you who were members of the Survey Committee on Hamovic and these for electricity, you saw how companies formed and you saw the NBJ sending funds to that bank in Russia, returning and how in two days round – that someone without a dinar became the owner. It's a classic example of money laundering. On the basis of this money laundering and similar, most tycoons or all the tycoons, we today have a situation that this government, I am going back to what I said a year and a half ago, the result of the compromise several tycoons, and it is known exactly: The wolf represents the tycoon Danica Draskovic, these one other group, the Velina third group, these Kostunicai lost that and now came another because Drakulic has gone. So the money laundering machine is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. A little bit now about the outflow of money abroad, etc. But on another occasion, since this is quite enough for those faithful RTS viewers, who were brave enough to follow what it looks like when this debate comes together. Under the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, this law was actually passed in 1992. Since 1992, no one has found it appropriate to change it, and since 1992 so many things have changed both in the country and in the environment, that simply this law has long become a historical regulation. If not before October 5, 2000, then I am absolutely certain that after January 25, 2001, this law was anachron, but it did not bother that government to do anything in accordance with those regulations. So, with this fund, I have to say, there's always been a problem. Believe me, you'll have more problems, no matter what you suggest changes. Why? Because this is a matter that needs to be arranged by a state bank that would probably be some development bank or alternatively, fate, character and legal position of the state's assets that it places through a bank or an investment fund, which is in the function of development. Now let's see what that could be. When you look at these changes of yours, you've reduced that development to small and medium-sized enterprises, maybe I've made it roughly simpler. Mr Dinkic, what would be in the function of developing the Republic of Serbia in accordance with changed circumstances, is the situation that everyone now advocates a market economy, that there is only private and state property, that the state's extinctions, you're trying to die out like this, and we're doing something right without being out of a job. So our development that needs to be run by the state is moving on some other way. It must be in the role of encouraging some regions, some areas, it must probably be in the function of infrastructure development, with all the risks and the fact that there are some other institutions that are not educated as funds, but as Road Directorate, etc. I mentioned the very infrastructure, with the fact that some public enterprises are in charge of development. The electricity industry with its new investments also draws some development, with the fact that local self-government separates some of the development funds, not to exaggerate, but probably 40 to 50% of the local self-government funds that are being placed through the Urbanism, Construction Directorate and these are development funds. A new street is paved, 500 metres of new asphalt is provided, or waterways, or sewers. There's probably one part where the Republic has a special interest in investing funds under the benefits. I'll take an example, since I've recently been to Lake Vlassin. Minister, there's the Surdulica municipality, as far as I've heard, brought an urban plan, but they have a big problem with the sewerage on Lake Vlassin. If they don't regulate it, the free lake will no longer be an ecological environment. From what I've heard, there are some resorts. Ministers, and the SPC there intend to build a spiritual centre, the Russian Orthodox, the Greek Orthodox, the Bulgarian Orthodox, to be in the function of excursions, children's holidays, etc. For example, it's a project of broader interest where you can't find an investor under market conditions, because big investments are needed. The bathroom would never have gotten asphalt, electricity and so on if there hadn't been an army and long-term development program. It's similar with Zlatibor, with other sites. Yeah, there was a committee at the time. At one point, the Chamber of Commerce agreed on market coherence, i.e. the socio-economic justification of certain investments, etc. Why am I telling you this? If what you're changing here is supposed to allow someone who has or intends to start with a small and medium-sized enterprise program to get funds, believe 50% of the funds will not be used. For what? These mobsters are chasing from the bank to the bank to see where the cheap capital is, so each of you is invited by some big businessman -- is there any bank you know where the cheap capital is, I'm going to put them there and the mortgage and I'm going to get a loan and I'm going to pay back some debts, and I'm going to turn this other into dinars. That's how they're gonna end these funds. Mr. Cirkovic, I'm reading a little, I'm reading a little, I'm not sitting for nothing. Smart people wrote everything. Be a member of the library and read a little bit, so you'll see, don't eat English potatoes, read some. That's the danger you don't have protection from here or your intention, if you're a member of this party, compete, you'll get funds, etc. But I don't want to talk about that part. So what's the priority, what's the state interest, what's in the development function? Mr. Angelkovic just told one great truth, not Serbia an exception. Many countries in this transition and adjustment process have emptied their space by 50% or 60% of the population and the population into the metropolis, so it spreads that space, it's chami, it's underdeveloped. And with us, the situation is even more difficult because of these Ustashas, Shiparian and other abuses. I totally understand. And six years ago, I led some kind of action to pave the way for all the village roads in Toplice, to protect ourselves from Shipar. I didn't come across an understanding. It is not good to make it possible, without seeing the real situation of some Cekovic or some Karic – Serbian hosts, so they organize, they swear there in front of the patriarch, now they will all be paved in the villages. It's not good for them to do that. It would be good if they could help, but it would be good for the state to run it. It's better for a citizen to be in relation to the state than for Karic. I'm sure we found a common language, 100%. Mr. Minister, about the law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest, I wrote that law in 2000. In those conditions, it was a good law. We had two problems. How to prevent local self-government from raising prices uncontrollably and how to prevent public enterprises from making a difference with the importance of moving capital through their sisters and the rest of them and rising above the state. If you hadn't cut us off on October 5th, we would have ended it, I guarantee you. Now, what are you changing? I'll tell you right now, all those changes that concern harmonisation and that elemental alignment with the provisions of the laws that have been passed in the meantime, regarding companies, economic registers, that can't be a problem. However, as far as I can see here, and I've been distracted by some, you later remembered to submit an amendment that significantly affects the status of public enterprises, but I have to tell you that whoever wrote you these amendments and supplements, he just forgot about another big thing. There is a big difference between public enterprises and companies that are active in the general interest. When we talk about companies that are doing business of general interest, it's not that good a property form. I'll take an example, the local self-government can trust a measure of general interest and a company that doesn't have to be in state property. When you talk about public enterprises, then it's an accent at a property moment, that they mostly work with state-owned assets. These are two different concepts and these two types of enterprises cannot be in the same legal position. That distinction was present in 2000, when this law was passed, we insisted on it, ask the professors of law school who worked on the law. And we were then faced with a company law problem that didn't even regulate public enterprises and some other problems, now that we're not opening up. I think you've mixed these two things up with some changes. We've got amendments here, so we'll get something a little more concrete about it. In the end, I would just like to tell you, since you are now planning to do some law on funds in your local self-government, I may have misnamed it, but it refers to the property of local self-government. Don't work. Because in local self-government, after Covic's Law on Local Self-Government and Local Elections, you have everything and everything; you will be in a situation where state resources, which should be defined by definition, which, if passed, are transferred to local self-government, that some local self-government will not have the means, because the brothers will sell it out. All countries have that problem. France has a two-stage self-government, so it's got the perfect one that approves all payments. Take care. A friend is a man of bad intentions, Mr. Dinkic. I'm sorry he didn't get beat up here when he was pushing those election cards. Kasa's a bad man. Canak isn't normal, he'll tear up Vojvodina. Remember. They don't care about the state. Covic, when pushing that law, Mr Dinkic, on local self-government, said so -- he will not go to the elections to be on the electoral list (the 30%) and he was wrong. Those housewives don't care if they're dancing at home, whether in the Bujanovac municipality, they don't care. They've got a majority, no democracy, five minutes from now, and we've got a fight. Take care when you change the law. Take care when you touch something there. The state and the people are your first priority. If you destroy the country, there are no people. The state protects its people, the people protect themselves through their own country. It's easy to go into things, and I'm afraid it's not too late for some.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22009	Here you go, Mr. Minister, and then you will have the word MP Rajko Baralic, then Zlatan Jovanovic. Just because of the stenogram, the neck is written with shia, although it doesn't exist, just so you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22010	I can't help but admire the previous speaker. I'm really fascinated. I haven't listened to anything of this substance in a really long time, so we can rightly conclude that this is one candidate for the future minister, or the current shadow minister. Just one recommendation - you better read the law on the prevention of money laundering yourself than you hired that magistrate of yours, because then you'd see in the definition of money laundering, which actually means money laundering, so you wouldn't bring up some things here that don't fit what the law says. And also, if your party magistrate hadn't interpreted the law to you, but if you had read it yourself, because I appreciate that you really have the quality of being a minister tomorrow in some government, in which, of course, there would be room for us from G17 plus, then you would see that actually the finance minister doesn't have that power in the law to prevent money laundering, as you mentioned here, given that he only gets a yearly report on the work of the Money Laundering Authority, which is completely independent in his work and these are mostly statistical data. How many criminal charges have been filed, how many transactions have been reported, and the finance minister has no right to interfere in the work of this authority itself, not even to receive information specifically related to the case, because it is still a matter that goes into the jurisdiction of other state authorities, such as the police. The only authority is to get a report on the work and bring in four sub-zonal acts stemming from this law. As for this one of yours, i.e., I don't want to say that you brought it up, it was brought out by this magistrate of yours, that the minister should not make decisions to report more than 15,000 euros, that he can be released from the obligation to report. Here's an explanation that, if you had read, Mr. Krassic, I'm sure you would have noticed. If your master hadn't read it, you would have noticed, because I think you're far more sharp than your master. And then you would see that in the light of the law, it says that in practice so far it has been observed that the Money Laundering Prevention Authority is simply covered by various reports of large supermarkets. Because 15,000 euros is the daily turnover of some C market or some store that works completely legally, not criminally, but sells sour milk to people, bread and others; it exceeds 15,000 euros a day, and then all of this has to be reported to the anti-money laundering administration. It gives authority here that, in fact, for such transactions, these people don't have to be harassed, to report it to the Money Laundering Authority, because it's perfectly clear that C Market or Jugopetrol or someone else at the gas stations when they're selling gasoline in that way doesn't launder money, but has income from the daily market. This is the reason and you have in explaining the law that the database is quite clogged and thus would allow for more efficient work of the Directorate to prevent money laundering. I have to say, I don't know what time you're talking about me destroying Serbian banks anymore. What were those Serbian banks? Were those the Serbian banks that took the savings to the citizens and that they hadn't paid for ten years? Were those the banks that pyramidally built interest rates, like "Jedha" and "Dafine"? I really don't know which Serbian good banks were destroyed, except for those that made a four billion-euro dubiosis. If they hadn't gone bankrupt now, some other government would have had to drive them into bankruptcy, and the costs would have been far higher. You're mentioning some kind of money delivery again. I hope my father didn't work at the NBS while the money was out. You know well whose father worked at the time, brother and other relatives at the National Bank, when the couples were in the 1990s in Cyprus. I'm trying to, fascinated by your exposure, in a similar way to you, convey ideas to those who listen to this. Secondly, you were wrong in one little detail and you've been wrong for two days. In order not to sin for the next week or the next year, I just want to tell you that my friends are not only Bogoljub Karic and Milo Djukanovic, whom you just named, but are my best friends, except Bogoljub Karic and Milo Djukanovic, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and I like Verica Radeta more and more. So, if you're talking about my friends, please, in the future, mention all these esteemed names, because it's an honor to be friends with all the names I mentioned. If you're talking about my real friends, like Mr. Miroljub Labus, then at least look at what was really about that famous scholarship you're talking about. If you were to tie up the Labus' daughter's scholarship in 2000, I'm saying again, it was July 2000, before he even became any state official by Ericson, you're actually saying that Ericson, earning money in a criminal way, wanted to launder money by disintegrating it, because it's money laundering. When you make money in a criminal way, you rip it apart into tiny pieces. So, you're actually saying that Erickson criminally earned money, then he used to distribute it to various young students, handing out scholarships and laundering money that way. What you said, if you were reading the law, and not if this "magistar" interpreted it to you, it would turn out that Ericson was laundering money, among other things, through the scholarship of Labus' daughter. And who knows how many of the world's students were involved in that money laundering chain, which they received in 2000. If you're taking this seriously, then you'd better read the law, rather than follow the advice of "master." I'd like to ask you a question or gentlemen of the Parliament. You are interested in many things and I try to answer them all the time, but I am interested – what are not only yours, but my friend Tomislav Nikolic, for example, what was he doing this year with his friend Milet Dragic in Cuba? Could it have been in connection with article 1 of the law on the prevention of money laundering? I don't think so. I really don't know what Mile Dragic and Tomislav Nikolic were doing in Cuba, but Mr Krasic, I just wanted to demonstrate to you what your arguments look like, with the fact that I didn't want to take 45 minutes from the MPs, like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22011	If I understood correctly, this was a demonstration, not an attempt to bring out facts. Mr. Krassic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22012	It's hard for me to figure out what facts are, and what is a personal experience and the use of a elemental right to express your opinion. There is a big difference between Dragic and Dragica. Honey is a wife, and Dragic, I guess, you know who she is. Secondly, you've confused some of the terms, someone from Homeland Security has cheated on you, as he always cheats on you. Third, I'm not sure you're friends with Tomislav Nikolic. I did, but he never told me I was a thief. You and Vukic, and Tomislav Nikolic, and for God's sake and the Verica Radeta don't call you "Dear Junior," but they say, "When are you going to jail, Junior? "So many criminal charges have been filed, you know that the SRS, or those "friends" have filed criminal charges against you. Mr. Dinkich, I really expected you to be a little more serious. You're interpreting that Erikson, on the day that Labus' daughter was paid something, committed a crime, in an illegal way, Erikson came up with a couple, so he garnered them out and divided them. Mr. Dinkic, that prosecutor in Sweden, that's exactly why he's running the case against Erickson. I didn't say Labus was laundering money, but Ericson was laundering money. The Erickson is the mob money they've got garnered and bought a future right from the opposition Labus. I didn't say Labus was laundering money. He was collateral damage to money laundering. He's a recipient of dirty money. Who says it's dirty money, taking Labus? The Swedes, not me. Where I can talk, I don't know these things. He pleaded. And his leg hurts, and he raised you, and he didn't lift you. The Swedes are writing. See how many articles there are on the Internet, our newspapers have published. Well, Labus never raised his leg, never took his daughter. Are you happy, "friend" Dinkich? If it is, it's good. Mr. Dinkic, since we did what we wanted, you've woken up and answered. Now let me explain. Article 28. See what is set out in point 1. It is said this way: "Data, information and documentation collected under this law are official secrets and can be used in accordance with this law." See the final position: "Deliverment of the Administration, competent state authorities and competent authorities of other States and international organisations, data, information and documentation referred to in Article 1, shall not be considered an violation of official secrecy, in accordance with this law". Mr. Dinkic, "master" Dinkic, in order to preserve the importance of the first attitude, you had to write who took off the official secret, who took off the obligation of official secrecy. This is the official secret, and everyone can use it. It's not working, Mr. Dinkich. At least there are regulations in this country that regulate how official secrecy is handled. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the post: Sublegal Act. I don't think you'll be able to do it by sublaw. Mr. Dinkic, whoever wrote you article 26. Tell him he doesn't know anything. See what you've put here -- "or when a client asks for advice on money laundering, he's obliged to inform the administration in writing about it" etc. So every client's information, when he comes to the debtor and says, "How can I wash my money?" "This man is obliged to report it." And they wrote in the law that they suspect that man has already committed a crime in an attempt. Do you know how this member got here? I don't know if it's this lady or someone else, but they mistranslated a member of the law from where they were cheating, so they took the raw to translate the English version without meaning, so the member became stupid and pointless. Look, you guys have a technical problem here. It's good in that law, Mr. Minister, but it's badly translated, so it turns out to be so stupid, that when you think about trying, someone reports with a tendency that it can be a crime. That member regulates regular co-operation and exchange of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22013	Here you are, MP Rajko Baralić, then Zlatan Jovanovic, and Savo Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22014	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a holiday, those who celebrate Djurdzic's happy glory, we work late at night. Just a few things, it's already too late, and on behalf of the SPS, two colleagues have already said what was important. It doesn't scare me that the National Bank's stronger position is with this law. That's how I understand this law. The role of a central bank in one country is defined by some other laws, but since we have heard here that, apart from the Commercial, all other banks are practically or will be privatised and will mainly be foreign capital, it is not bad that the National Bank has instruments to take care of what these others are doing. That's not why I answered. Two laws and this big story about money laundering and public enterprises are interesting to me. I would like to say that practically money laundering is partly done in Serbia by converting stamps into euro and especially by privatising. I had a dialogue with Mr. Vlahovic in 2002 on a Privatisation Committee and I got an explanation that I understood at the time, but I didn't fully accept it, that it's important that even someone who earned money in a problematic way, in accordance with the law in this country, buy something, then put their resources into financial flows and continue to operate in a regulated manner. It could be accepted as rational, but it doesn't agree with the overall understanding of how citizens and economic operators should function in one country, because someone could make big money by doing black jobs, bloody jobs, drugs, weapons problems, pimping and all those things that are a source of fast and easy wealth, unfortunately today, trafficking in white slaves, etc. It's good to prescribe rules on which it won't be possible, to the extent that money has been laundered so far. So, all those who do anything, today I talked about when we talked about the budget, should be responsible for the law and operate in accordance with the law. They're going to repeat this morning the sentence I said here. Everyone who works in any way by doing something that doesn't comply with the law, just preventing people from being treated, preventing soldiers from having food, having equipment, preventing the state from working effectively, preventing children from having computers at school. So we don't have to mourn any of these, we need to create an ambience of laws and, secondly, to fill the budget with an even burden on all economic operators in the country. Those who in one illegal way make funds and profits should be legally sanctioned and sanctioned. Not to mention the details, there have been too many conversations here that I'm not quite ready to go to the end, but there is a need for one such regulation to be passed and I think that we can only talk about the details, it's nothing questionable. What it is for us is a controversial mention by Parliament MP Vice-President Zoran Angelkovic on behalf of the SPS, at the very beginning of today's address. All public enterprises in Serbia, regardless of whether they are founders of local self-government, cities, provinces or states, are at the moment the most interesting part for potential buyers and I cannot accept the application of this analogy from the Law on Privatisation in Relations 70:30. So it could jeopardize, so I understand this thing, the state and the national substance. We have, of course, a very big problem as to how we make public positions more efficient, how to function in a better way, how to provide citizens with better and cheaper services. And you, Mr. Minister, were saying here that the Department of Trade and Tourism has a mechanism that in the formation of prices and in the case of profit, there are certain other things in particular. This is a good thing, but privatization of public enterprises, no matter what we think about it today, we no longer have control or we can't have control, of forming service prices, of a whole series of other things that are very important in this area. We are surprised, why it did not appear in the basic act, the government's amendment came that public enterprises in Serbia, when I say public talk about all businesses, will privatise up to 70%. It can mean whatever we want to say it means, and I believe there's one decision behind this that's reasonable and rational. But if it stays like this in the law, the authorities are variable (two without a soul, more without a head) and it can really happen that something that people have been building for years... I'll take an example because it's the easiest thing for me to paint on a public water supply company; a regional water supply system for Rzav in Cačka and four other municipalities. So, five municipalities drink water from that system, it's the same for Cells, and I watch a colleague of Dragan Jovanovic. So, 350,000 people use this system, it costs $137 million today, the state gave directly $35 million, and the economy and the citizens of these five municipalities gave all the other funds. They are in a sense all shareholders are informal. You can't set the whole thing up like that. We have a problem because phase two isn't finished, there's no Zvrchkovo dam that needs to provide another 1,200 liters of water per second. If someone agreed to sell a part of this system and make a water factory for that money, that's a great thing. But if this system were sold and the money went to Serbia's budget only and went into consumption, then we are directly responsible for jeopardising the substance of the system and for jeopardising the entire system there, for forming the price of water, for controlling the company, for its development, for protecting the environment and for many other things. I'd just like to ask you to explain that. There will be more opportunities when we speak in detail. Indeed, if this amendment remains, unless the government withdraws it, this is directly contrary to the concept, with the SPS program. We believe that it is possible for the state to function if at least the owner is 51% in important companies, because he seemed to me to be a colleague of Milosevic from Arangelovac, in the formation of prices and in the provision of services, in all other things nothing is the same and can't be collected by grandmothers and frogs. Somewhere, the water is treated with chlorine, somewhere in the ozone, somewhere with fluorine, somewhere with none of it, unfortunately, somewhere like Rzav, that a drop of water travels 56 hours from Ariel to Gornji Milanovac, it is a huge system and a very expensive maintenance system, but it has the best quality water in Serbia. So we can't let someone from the white world come tomorrow to buy the system and say, "From today, the water cube is 250 dinars." So that's all I'm talking about, and that's a lot of pain. Please, first of all, understand that, because it won't be easy to explain. It's easy for us to sell companies that need to deal with city cleanliness or some other public enterprise. So that's not controversial. The tender, so someone comes forward to work on better conditions, more efficient, etc. Water supply companies, gas, electricity, everything that is very important for the lives of all citizens must be respected and with great responsibility and understanding the problem of all citizens to approach it. If we hadn't done that, we wouldn't have done our job here in a responsible way, and the citizens who sent us here with their voices and asked us to. There's gonna be a chance to talk about this. It's already too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22015	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word is made by the MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and Sava Urošević and Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22016	Here, I am taking the opportunity in the absence of the Secretary-General, Mr Bubal, since we are determined to defend this law before the National Assembly, to clarify this amendment regarding public enterprises, since several MPs already had questions about this. In fact, the idea of government, when we proposed an amendment, was to open up the possibility of free division of shares employed by public enterprises in the agreement we reached with the unions. According to the Privatisation Act, it does not give legal opportunity for free division of shares to workers in public enterprises. We then gave this amendment, which says that up to 15% of public enterprises are given free of charge to workers, or former workers, means pensioners who worked in these public enterprises. That's one thing. Second, this position 1 says that in public enterprises and companies with a majority share of state capital, the issue is sold at a maximum of 70% of the state capital that is privatised. As you know, in the process of restructuring public enterprises this year, we have singled out secondary actions. The side-actions of doing business as state-owned enterprises really don't make sense. We have to start privatizing them. If we privatize them according to current regulations, all 100% will go into the budget. We say in this way, in fact, that we are not going to privatize 100% of these secondary activities, but we're going to offer only 70%, and we're going to divide this into workers. Later on, whoever buys it can pay off the stock or the workers can sell if they want to to the new owner. These side activities are mostly various motels, resorts, etc. That was the law's intensity. Otherwise, the decision to privatise each individual public enterprise, whether in secondary activity or in basic, is not governed by the law itself. With this amendment, we just want to say that in the event of privatisation, one part of the shares must be distributed to free workers. That's the point of the amendment. I'm sure Mr. Bubalo, when there's a discussion of the details, will explain this matter even more closely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22017	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22018	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not like to repeat what has already been said, i.e. to reduce to the minimum possible extent, given that there is little time left for the SRS parliamentary group and that there are more speakers. I will start with the first proposal, the law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic, i.e. amending and supplementing that law. A few remarks I've been able to spot that matter to me. First it's more technical, and I think it's important and it's a little bit different to define, and that's already in Article 2. The proposal, i.e. Article 3 of the basic text, which states that the Fund promotes economic development and participates in the achievement of regional development policy and can also do other jobs on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it used to be, i.e. the basic text states that the Fund operates on economic principles. Now it's only about development principles, and I've tried to understand this, so from the Minister's presentation, I've concluded that this is interpreted by the interest rate of the Republic Development Fund between 1-5%, meaning it's lower than the interest rates of other commercial banks and that this is the development function. I don't think it can just stand the development principle that it has to and economically, because these funds aren't non-refundable, they're not even zero interest. So they're coming back and there's some interest that's lower than the interest of commercial banks. The funds are returned, therefore the Fund also works on economic principles. So, besides the developmental sea, there's this economic principle. The following remark refers to the Article 4 of the basic text, i.e. to the amendment of that 4th article, which states that this fund is financed. So, future adoption of this law will no longer be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but from credit ratings and aid and other funds from international financial organisations, or from individual countries that are approved by countries in transition to promote the employment and real-estate programmes and, under three, from other sources. In fact, if I'm a good interpreter, the Fund will no longer have any other resources. So, what he's got now is a set-up, it's an amount of about 450m euros, as the minister said there will be no more new funds under this law. Why? Because these are anautetes based on credit ratings. These are the funds that have already been placed and are coming back. Another source has dried up. The donation is gone, the solidarity aid also does not have or is symbolic, so for this fund it no longer represents an important source of funding. Therefore, as things stand, this law will literally shut down the Republic of Serbia Development Fund in some period of time ahead. If we currently have 450m euros in the Development Fund, which is likely to be placed, because I don't believe that these funds are available, they are probably placed in various projects, we have to wait for these funds to be returned to be placed further. There are huge interest rates, between one and five percent, well below inflation. These funds will be provided in time. In a time period ahead of us and this fund will be shut down, that is, those funds will come to one level that will not be significant and will not be able to significantly affect the underlying purpose and function of this fund. Article 6 of the basic text, i.e. the amendments provided for and proposed for this member, states that loans from the Fund's resources cannot be granted to enterprises with social gross capital, as well as to public undertakings. This is also confirmed in the explanation of where it is said, given the changes in the rules, the Fund has focused its core activity on financing small and medium-sized enterprises with private capital. It would not be controversial if we had no cooperative property in Serbia. What about cooperatives? Are cooperatives excluded from these changes of yours? What about a number of agricultural cooperatives, meaning, agricultural cooperatives, beekeeping cooperatives, trade cooperatives that also exist in Serbia, do some work, some business, hire some people and have some projects. Why cooperatives are not covered, because as this member is formulated, cooperatives are not covered by this law, or they will not be able to use the funds from this fund for the development of the Republic of Serbia. The second law, which is in this unique debate on the agenda, is the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. What I was able to conclude from the presentation of the Ministers and MPs who spoke before me is that we are going back to what we had six or more years ago, that the government will again control the prices of municipal services in the local environments. Just to remind you, i.e. remind the citizens of Serbia by 2001, while some other government led Serbia, those who have led Serbia today and who have led it since 2001 are, because of so-called. Centralizations, lashes, whistles, whistles all over Serbia, and now they're turning it back. Now they control the prices of municipal services again, even imposing something new that did not exist before, which is the obligation of public enterprises, means local utility companies to deliver their plans and work programmes to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the next year until 1 December of each year. So we have another step further into centralization, or what was before that famous October, or Bulldozer revolution. Also, I realized from this proposal that public enterprises in Serbia will be privatised and that this famous amendment provides that up to 70% of capital can be privatised. Just because – up to 70%, means someone will go as far as to do so. This does not guarantee any of us MPs, nor Serbia's citizens, that more than 49% will not go. The law has allowed, someone will reach out to take advantage of that maximum that the law has allowed. It's also said here, that's what's good, that, when privatising these public enterprises, actions will be able to enroll, to get citizens employed in public services, means in police, health, education, state administration, etc. I'm asking you, what about the village population? Will the rural population, peasants, people living in villages from farming, have a chance to enroll in Serbia one action in any enterprise? Will they be able, on that basis, to get one dollar? Why did you forget them? Since the Law on Privatisation in 2001, great injustice has appeared in Serbia to various groups of citizens. Some injustices are gradually rectified, but it seems to me that it will remain until the end. I think the peasants will remain deprived, and all these public enterprises were created by the revenues paid by the peasants in the country's budgets at the time. As far as this last bank law is concerned, very briefly. We heard that savings in our banks are about two billion euros, that the minister boasts of the savings, that amount. But from what I understand, we have in our banks about three million users of those payment cards. If I understand Mrs. Radet well – it is the obligation of each individual to get that card to deposit 300 euros in the bank, as a condition for obtaining a card. If that goes well, apply mathematics, it's about a billion euros. So, a billion euros is some forced savings, a savings imposed on citizens as an obligation to use some services of modern business. Also, Article 12 of this Law speaks of founding capital. It says that the money share of the bank's founding capital cannot be less than 10m euros. So the founding capital must be bigger, the money must be minimum 10m euros. Article 22 speaks about the bank's business and says the bank must in its business provide a minimum capital equivalent of 10m euros. I wonder if this is just a cash share of capital or a total capital? So there is a small conflict between Articles 22 and 12, or Article 22 is not precise. In the end, I'll end up with it, Article 92. – talks about foreign banks' representations in the Republic of Serbia. We have since 2001 the flood of foreign banks in Serbia, domestically shut down, we have heard it all, it is quite said. But I can't see, in these conditions that foreign banks must meet to open a representative office in Serbia, that founding capital, that mandatory deposit of 10m euros. Why do these foreign banks, or their representations, not have that 10m-euro capital constantly in their account in Serbia? You have led this way into an unequal position of the domestic bank and foreign banks that have their own representations in Serbia. Of course, I'll talk about the amendments more widely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22019	Here you go, Mr. Urosevic, then Momir Markovic, then Vitomir Plužarevic, then Miljko Četrović. Here you go, Mr. Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22020	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would take advantage of the opportunity, since the presentation of my previous colleague is fresh, and it is made up of some of his dilemmas, to relieve him of some dilemmas. All contracts made with the Development Fund contain a currency clause, so there is no concern of yours that the funds in the Fund will melt in case there is no grant from the budget. Interests from 1 to 5% are less than inflation. The 1% interest in the Development Fund is used only for loans given to devasted areas and thus fosters a balanced regional development. The other thing you said, which can be considered false, is about the amount of savings and card deposits. It's true that there are three million cards, but a large percentage of them don't ask for a deposit, these are cards based on personal user card receipts, so that story absolutely doesn't stand. To go back to some of the things that are the subject of my presentation, which is the law on amendments to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Why did I choose this particular topic? Because I believe that the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has had a significant impact over the last five years on the development of the Republic of Serbia, particularly on the regional development of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that all the changes given by this law are entirely meaningful and allow the Fund to continue its business in accordance with the laws adopted from 1992 to today. It was necessary for the Business Act of the Republic of Serbia's Development Fund to comply with the Business Society Act and now the new Privatisation Act. I'd like to present here a few more data relating to the Fund's business in the last five years. By 2001, the Fund had primarily credited social enterprises, and beyond that, it was almost exclusively crediting private enterprises, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. Some of the results, which I consider significant, the Fund in this period are, for example, the structure of capital, i.e. capital sources in the Fund. Since 2001, the structure has changed, so, ultimately with 30.9.2005, the collection of annuities, loans, accounts for almost 73% of the Fund's assets. The participation of the Fund in the pre-account value of long-term loans ranges between 40% and 80%, with all requirements that pass the professional service being approved and percentageally, according to the number of requests, and the resources available to the Fund. At that point, money is received, i.e. the right to withdraw money. What represents a small problem, it is the realisation of these loans, because there is another problem – the security of the bank's guarantees, because the Fund has a very high degree of credit collection, and it is possible that no one can get the credit until it brings the guarantee to the bank. So that percentage, for the last five years, is going around about 55%. What's particularly encouraging is that in the first nine months of this year, it was 71%. What can be drawn, as a conclusion, from this change in the percentage of credits realised, is that credit acceptants have become serious and in some way provided instruments to repay credit. One more thing I find significant; a total of 5.336 loans totalling 434m euros have been granted since 2001. These funds, which are placed in long-term loans, created an opportunity to open and opened 42,000 new jobs, so from there we can freely say that the Fund has a very significant development function. The short-term loans during this period were around 850 and were placed somewhere around 118m euros. It is mainly loans used to stimulate exports, buy fruit and liquid liquidity of legal entities, i.e. companies. What I think is also significant is the fact that the Fund has achieved a profit of 57m euros in the first nine months, which is likely to be reduced by some amount at the end of the year, because it will have to cut off some commitments from the earlier period, otherwise, at the time of September 30th, it is up to the commissioners at 105 billion dinars, with 43.5 billion of them being funds from ministries that have crossed the Fund, i.e. the Fund has played a commission role there. I think these are data that are very important and that indicate that the Fund has played a significant role in the Republic of Serbia in the last five years. I call on all parliamentary groups, and I am sure that the G17 Group of MPs plus will vote in favour of this bill, I call on other parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this bill. There's one more thing I'd like to say, which concerns the law on the prevention of money laundering. The Council of Europe Committee, which deals with the assessment of the actions and measures that members of the Council (and we are a member of the Council of Europe) are taking on a plan to prevent money laundering, carried out an assessment of Serbia and adopted a report ordering Serbia to bring legislation in the area of preventing money laundering into line with international standards which has been done with this bill, so that this bill is fully in line with European standards in the area of preventing money laundering.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22021	Based on the wrong interpretation, MP Zlatan Jovanovic, a replica, was not an offensive context but was misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22022	Mr. Urosevic, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia played a significant role in the development of the Republic before 2000. So, since 1992, he's played a significant role, not just in the last five years. In the last five years, she's played a significant role because she got a loan from Mrs. Rushett, you probably heard about the case. You heard earlier from Mr Rankic's statement that an DS representative in Bora has also received one loan that he purposelessly spent from the Development Fund, and it is not the only cases. This assembly here is supposed to get a report on the fund's business and get it every year and she's considering and adopting the report, not leaving it to the government. Secondly, as for saving in banks, I said, since I don't own that card and I don't know how it's going to be, but I heard here from the predecessor's presentation that the deposit is 300 euros per card and that we have three million cards and I said if that's the case, then half of that savings on that basis is, so I'm building up, I didn't intend to claim and agree, or to deceive the public. Third, as regards the Development Fund in Article 2. The proposal stands – The Fund promotes economic development on development principles, etc. I said this term wasn't appropriate, because economic principles were excluded, and you just convinced me. If in a contract concluded with users by the Fund there is a currency clause, then these are purely economic principles, so on which the Fund operates. So there's a currency clause, there's even over it and interest, so lower than these commercial ones, and then they're economic principles. And I just wanted to say that this sentence was supposed to be a fund on development and economic principles, and that was the essence of my exposure. So I can't be different principles if there's interest, if there's a return obligation and if there's a currency clause I didn't know about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22023	Thank you, now we've heard both interpretations. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, then by Vitomir Plužarevic, and then by the last registered speaker present, Miljko Čevrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so much has been said for these four legislative proposals, so much will be said about the amendments, and the time the SRS parliamentary group has is too short and I won't stick around this. I want to explain to the citizens of Serbia how the tycoons and these tycoon groups formed on a nice case. The People's Anti-Corruption Movement has sent us a memo and you will see an example of a group that is very attached to the minister and his business. "Genex", the largest foreign trade firm in Yugoslavia, over which virtually all exports of the heavy industry, products of broad consumption, as well as most of the exports of services went. A representativeship in London as a business centre for Europe, the Dalekii Middle East and the whole of Africa, and a significant part of these jobs are being realised by re-scont goods and services, and significant profits are being made on these jobs. The head of the London representation was Zoran Draculaic. It's the same Zoran Drakulić who bought the "Sevojno" Valionnica, which is the same one that Zoran Drakulić bought "Klas" and that's the same one that Zoran Drakulić intends to buy the "Bor" Mine and "Prerad" in Majdanpek. So he's very interested in copper and copper products. The Energy Project, the largest construction company in Yugoslavia that performed about 80% of the total construction works in the SFRY and abroad, also has a representative office in London, which performs a significant part of the jobs towards Latin America, the Middle East and Europe, and the head of the representation was Vuk Hamovic. It's the same Vuk Hamovic, who, if you remember, his firm was called the "Little collective", through which he did all those work related to the National Savings Bank. It's the same Vuk Hamovic who sold Serbia electricity when Serbia has excess power, and bought from Serbia electricity when Serbia has a power shortage. So, the same Vuk Hamovic that made the reversible hydropower plants drop excess water, etc. Third, the "Yugobank" was a pillar of the international banking of the former SFRY and the bank through which over 90% of the payments went abroad and abroad. Decades established in financial markets, with representations in Amsterdam for Europe, New York for America and Moscow for the Soviet Union. A stable conto, a Correspondent business with the world's largest banks, for a stable job, highly quoted on bank rating lists, the head of the Amsterdam representation was Milos Mirkovic. It's the same "Yugobank" that Mladjan Dinkic gave as a kitten. It is the same Milos Mirkovic who formed with Vuk Hamovic "Euroaxis" bank in Moscow, where Mladjan Dinkic, as governor, held Serbia's foreign reserves. Let's move on, the jobs that have fallen behind from the former Yugoslavia abroad have been under way. Foreign investors and international capital markets did not pay attention to the poisonings in the former Yugoslavia, and this situation is used by two capable men, Hamovic and Drakulic, and set up a JJ point. That's the same JU point that's showing up here right now in Serbia, who bought Klas. Then Milos Mirkovic, Trio Hamovic, Drakulic and Mirkovic began to work successfully and in the first three years of business managed to target more than 80% of total joint transactions and claims from the former SFRY. This practically means that they become the only serious company through which the companies of many countries from the SFRY area can charge any job they have done abroad. In addition, with the guarantees of National Westminster, the former state's debts are purchased, of course at unmatched prices. Ten percent of the nominal value of the debt is purchased and these are the debts that Minister Mladjan Dinkic paid far more, bought them out of these three specifically, the JU point or "Euroaxis" bank, or any of these companies, but from these three. Serbian companies who had claims abroad simply had no choice. Pressed by economic problems in Serbia, they had to agree to everything and give the system what you give. Reputable businessmen slowly relocated state capital at the expense of their businesses. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is just one click, a group of hohstapplers now called businessmen and who robbed this country. Such clicks were formed on the other side. None of you or you won't remember, but the citizens remember that Karic, like Dafina and Jazda, had a savings bank. Her name was BK Bank. Jadz and Dafina closed their banks, got stuck in jail, and Karic became a big businessman. Now I see he led Dinkic, or Dinkic led him, regardless of who led whom, they mainly learned Japanese language there and will already be slightly different. It's six and ten, I don't have time anymore, because two other colleagues have to speak for this short time. During the amendment debate, we'll also tell Mr. Secretary everything we have to say to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22025	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's not six and ten, it's four minutes to nine, so someone doesn't get confused, but you were talking about minutes. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic, then Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised that since 1992 this law has not been amended until this proposal, beyond all the laws so far: the Law on Economic Society, the Law on Privatisation and other laws. Perhaps these old laws, or this old law, were designed to implement all streams that were cloudy and cloudy. When this job is done, everything can be put under the rule of this new law. When it comes to the Development Fund, that it needs to bring legal solutions in practice that are current today, this fund should also address the property fund issue. According to Minister Dinkic, this fund should act towards the private sector and we as a Serbian Radical Party think everything should work towards the private sector. However, this private sector has also received party connotations, so that mainly all these funds from this fund are mainly directed towards certain party private companies. The Fund does not allow funds to be used in state and public enterprises. The fact that lending from this fund should be directed towards poor municipalities is probably directed at those municipalities where these municipalities are headed by people from G17 plus. That's what I see, I know, and I can comment on from the corner of the Irish municipality. This fund also has the task of enabling beginners, who are beginning to engage in private activities, to use these funds. But how do we know that there aren't really any of those beginners when everything is standing and the economy is dead? And she died because of all the activities that you're doing right now. You mention that you need to improve employment and exports. In what context are these wishes and ideas, when we know how many unemployed today, and which goods we're going to take out when you've designed all these laws for us in the direction of importing consumer goods. Which is why we go out to the world market when you know that it depends on agriculture and other branches. I mean food that is extremely quality in the ecological sense of this word. These 458m euros are the backbone of this fund and you say it has come into existence and that the fund has already moved to market conditions. The interest is determined from 1 to 5% depending on the development of local self-government. The same all depends on your individual and personal comments that you make, and that is evident in this budget that was in the previous comment in this session. You also predict that the Development Fund transforms into Serbia's development bank. It's all good ideas, but if you've destroyed in the previous period a vast majority of our banks, which could, with one easy move to transform, we can call it a development bank, you didn't want to, but you know what you did with those banks. As for the recapitalisation of this fund, you have ensured that this fund cannot be privatised and we can comment on that, but we believe that this time will show that all of our criticisms that we have sent to you on any basis have been justified. With regard to the Law on Public Enterprises, you have carried out some termological changes in this law, as you say – crucial. You arrange and distribute the profits of public enterprises and companies and you want not to establish the monopoly behaviour of certain public enterprises, and we know that it is possible even after this law. This law will likely regulate certain free actions that will be divided from the 30 per cent Action Fund. We will see how you will lead this information technology of citizens and whether citizens will be able to provide themselves with timely and timely action in these public enterprises again – who before Dinkic and Labus. The papers of this law are also defined in the submission of a programme to be adopted at higher levels, which is at the republican level, so that each public enterprise is due to submit its programme by 1 December of the current year for the following year. This term is not bad, to deliver these programmes on December 1st, so that any public enterprise can prepare for next year and with this programme, verified, approved, can start its production cycle. With regard to these differences in public enterprises at a republican or local level, this law should prevent a certain sense of self-will at a communal level and this will depend again on political orientation, or on the current authority in certain areas. There's a comment that you've pointed out here, that some salaries have been raised by 30%, and they've been fueled by an increase in municipal services. These amendments and additions to the Law on public undertakings on the performance of the general interest could also cover other activities related to the functioning and distribution of profits. I'd keep going, but I'll leave a little bit of Four to him to say a sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22027	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22028	Here, since it is 21 hours, it is inappropriate and time, as was the inappropriate proposal to combine these three points of the agenda, to discuss them at the same time in short time, especially for the SRS parliamentary group. The minister's gone, he's probably in a hurry to watch this burn between two similar to him, which will be at 9:00. But everything has a duration, and the duration of these two who will be in the duel and this minister who went to follow them will soon come when the people decide that one responsible government will take over the state of Serbia. I have only a few notes to make in this short time, and there will be opportunities under the amendments tabled by the SRS parliamentary group and to ask certain questions to Minister Dinkic. First for the Development Fund; amendments and additions to the Law, the basic law is from 1992. These experts who came after October 5th from this Europe, who is looking for both past authority and this government, decorated in Djelic, Pitic, Vlahovic, and supported by Labus, Dinkic and others who were here, say 57m gains from the Fund, 450m euros are funds of the Fund that are approved. The rate of payments, that's the minister's words, 98 percent. We have heard from the MPs from the G17 group that there will be a request. It is said here that solid terms or means of security are guarantees of banks. Then how is it possible to write down those claims? Do the funds of this fund continue to be approved, such as DOS, or DS? I know examples from the King. The bar at the Ibari Masteral, 20% in advance and those related to DS or DOS received these funds, allegedly, for some programs, ponds, heifers at Ruden, the milkmaker at Ruden, Mile Corinthians and others. Criminal charges for privatizing the milkman. What's the effect of all this? Is that one of those loans to be written off at the end of this year? It's about the bill of banks. The minister here for who knows which time and tonight said he was happy that, thanks to him and Labus, the four largest banks in Serbia had gone bankrupt. I'd like him to be so perceptive, I'll give him a meeting with 250 workers who haven't found a job since January 2002, make them happy for at least a short time and talk to them. He did not allow them four years, how long the bankruptcy takes, and not to get paid for December, he did not allow them from bankruptcy or from income from issuing the business space "Yugobanka" and all four of these banks so that those workers who went into retirement get severance. It allowed the sale of all movable assets and the issue of business space. And even after the bankruptcy of the Jugobank in the King, it was "Delta Bank", so it was sold to the Italians as a successful bank, as the Meridian Bank was sold, and now it's the Cachanska Banka in the King. The king had his own bank since 1955, and after 2002, Kraljevo and the entire region does not have its own bank, thanks to Labus and Dinkic. Now Velja Ilic managed to bring the Chacan Bank to the King, which was never there. It is the contribution of Dinkic and Labus to the entire region of the Kings. The economy, which has been supported for decades by the bank, has run out of support, so Magnochrom and Cars and Jasen and all other collectives in the municipality of Kraljeno and in the whole region. About the law on preventing money laundering; here the minister said, about the banks that remained, that they remained with pure capital. It seems that the washed is all the dirtyest money from the mafia in Serbia, the mafia from Europe, and even from the world. Now we should have passed, allegedly, these laws and now we're going to do everything clean and fair. I expected Minister Dinkic to accuse women in Serbia of being the most money laundered by now, as they forgot to look through their pockets in shirts, so they put it in the machine and wash the money. Fifteen criminal charges for this past period since a commission reportedly deals with money laundering in Serbia. Did anyone even do that? He didn't deal with it, because everything that's happened, in fact, was supposed to end, apparently, with these laws and those previous laws of criminal law, so we're going to be working as a society where there's a rule of law, where there's a state, where there's institutions. Unfortunately, there is neither the rule of law in Serbia nor there are institutions. Serbian citizens will soon resolve it and, as I said, they will elect a responsible authority that will work in their interest and the interests of the state. There will be opportunities for amendments, and there will be a minister, I hope, here to ask him specific questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-16-0.u22029	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Is it the Rules of Procedure or one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, the Bill on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Bill on Banks. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you very much for your responsibilities, both to you and to the representatives of the Ministry. We will continue at 10.00 in the morning, with a general search of the united points in the field of health.
