ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14379	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Veroljub Stevanović, Slobodan Mihajlovic, Brance Stojanovic and Esad Djudjevic. I would like to inform you that MP Meho Omerovic, on Thursday's session, asked the President of the Assembly to provide MEPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, with a translation of the Performance Study and, in comparison, I would like to inform you that the following documents are available on the website of the Parliament – the translations of the following documents: The feasibility study, i.e. The exact term Report on Serbia-Montenegro's readiness for negotiations on the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union; a statement by the European Commission on Serbia-Montenegro's readiness to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. Also, there are original documents in English on this page, since we have unauthorized translations of both documents. Therefore, professional services can make available within parliamentary groups and printed documents. I once again take the opportunity to thank the Assembly for its responsibilities, because this is the institution most of all in a positive assessment of the Performance Study, among other things, and for its exceptional responsibility, as well as its participations and positions and oppositions. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: I would like to remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the review of the amendment to Article 3. A bill submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is a folk apostle, Radiša Ilic, and then the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of the SRS Members of the People's Republic of Radeta requires the removal of another meaningless member of the 3rd. A bill of this law. You want as legislators, if it's adopted to run a huge state apparatus, to run hundreds of thousands of people to whom you've planted false hope that their property will be returned, to break the thresholds of state institutions and beg the clerks for all the documents you're looking for here that property is successfully recorded. There are a number of those who do not have any confirmation, record or document on the confiscation of assets after 9 March 1945. If there's no such document in the state archive, then what? The only thing that will benefit Dinkic's ministry will be that by paying all fees for administrative services, the citizens of Serbia will fill out the state register. In the end, the citizens will find out they've been cheated. All of this comes down to the next one, file a report of stolen property to grace our basement archives. This is a waste of time and a waste of people's money. You'll get into the quicksand you'll never get out of. Now we don't understand the legislator of this law, who said on the first day of the debate that he himself has a lot of reservations under this bill. What he wanted to say to the MPs, I believe he doesn't know himself. In Serbia, after 9 March 1945, it was taken away or nationalised, transferred to so-called agrarian land funds of many private agricultural land, factories, buildings, apartments, squares, mills, craft shops and so on. When all of this is recorded according to your bill, so when you draw one line and add up the values of the subtracting property, what are you going to do? What you're going to do if you get an astronomical sum, what you're going to tell people you've given false hope to because you're entering something that's inconclusive in the way you imagined. A lot of real estate has already changed a few owners. What about factories that are abandoned today, ruined, robbed, and once owned by someone else's private property? The previous Dossian government, where the current DOS wing was also in power, promised to return the seized property to the owners, in the first months of its revolutionary rule, but gave up, therefore, faster-better, so they sold cementers, sugars, brewers, hotels, agricultural goods and so on. Interested in selling out everything that can be sold out, and this – "favourable" means the successfully agreed fees that in a moment of business appear on the Seattles and other islands. So, it has exceeded all this in DOS over that promise made to Serbian citizens. You remember those great panorams, contracts with the people, and oaths as if it were the Holy Scriptures. Also, the owners of the Dossov authorities (and this applies to those who are currently in power and those who are part of the opposition), violated several existing laws by returning the seized property to only one man – Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, a man who knowingly or unconsciously gave support to the Serb people's slaughterers. Just remember Kukani in 1991. What about the Serbian peasants? Why did you turn them into second-class citizens? So the Crown Prince is not subject to the laws of this country, while they are still consistently applied to the people. Is that the flow of your legalism you've been calling upon since you existed? Do we live in a republic or in a monarchy? Because if you brought back Karadjordjevics all that, why didn't you return it to those citizens of Serbia who were taken away from their property? Finally, I would refer to the presentation of MP Mike Vlaovic yesterday, when he said that the application of this law would only apply to people who had less value taken from them. You can't, if you pass the law, only apply it to those who have small possessions, and those are the most, and not to those who have taken away the property of great value. No partial, personal law enforcement. If you return that farmer's field of 50 acres, then you must return, for example, to the Paracinsco stafar to the descendants of the Government of Theokarevic. This bill of law is most like the man who went to make the house, and he only has five bricks and two beams, and when he realized it was impossible, he gave up everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14381	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I welcome the representatives of the Private Property Protection League who observe the work of the session from the balcony. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14382	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised the government's representative has not withdrawn this bill so far, because it's obvious that this is the greatest nonsense ever proposed to the Assembly. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 3 – a proposal to delete the member – is primarily the principled relationship between the SRS towards the idea of returning the seized property, i.e. according to the false promise of almost all political parties in Serbia; of course, except the SRS. And even if we weren't against it, this Article 3 again would be pointless, just as I have explained. The government, which rejected this amendment, says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 3 does not prejudge anything, etc., but states in Article 1 of this article that it has the right to apply under this bill, which does not mean that it is exhausting the circle of a person who will have the right to recover the seized property or compensation for the seized property under a special law. This is really amazing. You predict something by law, you know in advance that you can't cover everything by law, and then you say, "This doesn't exhaust the circle." I'm guessing you're passing a law to precisely state who these are persons who can file a report for the recording of their once-absorbed assets. I ask you, what happens if there was no desert procedure in any case, how are you going to determine, will these persons lead a desert procedure to show who is the possible heir? Of course, that's impossible, but you haven't thought about what can happen in practice by applying such a truly pointless law, especially a pointless member of this third law, which should certainly be deleted. In the second position of this member, you have provided for a new jurisdiction of the Property Directorate, which also cannot be regulated in this way. There is a law that regulates this jurisdiction and cannot in this way alter the jurisdiction of the Property Directorate. You remember, I remember perfectly well the application of the Land Return Act, which was in effect for 10 years. I don't think it's been applied since 1996. This law should have served you as a teaching that a serious state cannot and must not engage in such a business. By applying this law on the return of land by PZF, families of future future successors were first disputed; secondly, aunts' aunts, aunts' aunts' aunts, and no one knows who was inheriting whom in the application of the law. You destroyed the agricultural combinations, the value of the land fell, because the land was given to those who had never dealt with agriculture. The result of the law is today's soaring agricultural land across Serbia. What happened with that law is fate and this, or future one, that you will never propose to the congregation, even though you are constantly announcing them. Because, let's say, we have an object from 1991. Yesterday I was in Tutina, so people asked me to read their example in favour of our position that there should be no law on the return of the country, where the Zecevic family received a partial solution to return the country to them in 1991. Did they get the land? No, they're not. They run litigation, they pay court fees, and they'll never get what was once taken from them. Because that's not possible, and especially since 98% of the claims filed in Tutin are positively resolved and then one, two, or three requirements cannot be resolved and the whole law falls on it. So I suggest you adopt this amendment, and even better, to withdraw this bill, because this law, as you have imagined it, means nothing. Besides, you have the attitude of these people who expect you to give them back the property you promised, that's where they were once taken away. Well, they tell you this is nonsense, and they realize you're lying to them. And you're lying to them because you're expecting an extraordinary parliamentary election soon, so you can say -- here's the citizens, we've decided, we've started to register; for starters, report all the assets taken, pay Dinkic's tax, fill his budget; and what about your demands, or from that record, it might be good for you to do what this former government did in that case in Palilula (which Gordana Pop-Lazic spoke about yesterday), when you took people's apartments back from the people again. I'm asking you how you're gonna get back and regulate that property you've been taking away since 2000, of course without legal grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14383	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, and I now welcome to the gallery the arrival of young people from the Open Club of the Democratic Centre.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14384	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I don't think it's right that we've been discussing here for the third day without the minister present. Simply, it would be easier for him to be there, because according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he has the right to take part in the debate and perhaps to answer some of the questions that can be settled in the debate itself without being the subject of the vote. I have submitted several amendments to this bill. The amendment to Article 1 passed yesterday. A bill that I didn't want to explain, or I wasn't able to, given that I chaired, but in any case, I'm just going to remind you that it's an amendment where the tax rules are listed. It is 32 regulations on the basis of which the confiscation of assets was carried out and I think that the amendment should be accepted for the reason that, if it remains, the proposed solution could lead to a number of concerns, especially those discussed by counterpart Marko Krstin on Thursday, when the amendment debate began. Since I have now come to the attention of the amendment to Article 3. The bill, first I want to correct part of my discussion from Wednesday, which referred to my concern that the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate will be able to do this big job. Namely, just in an informal conversation with the ministry's representatives, I learned that the whole proposal consists of forming a special organisational unit in the Directorate itself that would deal with this issue. In this way, the ineffectiveness of the Directorate itself, which is being looked at in all the other jobs it has been doing since 1995 and to this day, does not simply have to be a reason to doubt that this job is now well done by the Directorate. So, if the change of systematization and the formation of a special department that would only deal with the confiscation of property would redecorate the work of the Directorate, the job could probably be done. So I thank the Ministry's representatives for taking the time to discuss these suggestions. Of course, I remain at the appeal that this ruling majority approach will change the Law on Assets in the possession of the Republic. It's the 1995 law. I think we all agree here that it's the ultimate anachron law, which, to a good degree, hinders local self-government from doing their job. I will remind you that no legal work concerning leases; that I am not talking about alienation or any other available property used by municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia; it cannot be done without the consent of the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate is not at all able to process so many demands, and these demands are daily arriving in municipalities across Serbia and I don't know how it is possible to resolve it at all. Last time I pointed out, for example, when some business space, or business that has a business space, wants to break up a contract with a user, a tenant of that space, which, for example, doesn't pay for years, and for that termination of the contract, it needs to get the consent of the Directorate, and you believe that there is no and can't be obtained, so that there is no way in court to protect the right of local self-government and in the extreme distance of the state's right against the unconscious third parties in those areas. It's about Article 3 because that's where the directorate is mentioned. So, I'm staying with that appeal and I'm asking someone who is really able to talk to the government's responsible and that this law is finally changing. Of course, that was true of the previous government, where I was also hoping this would happen, as of October 5th, and so on, that someone would abolish the Law on assets in the property of the Republic or at least that part that restricts the development of local self-government. In short, my amendment to Article 3 refers precisely to that circle of persons who can carry out the application of the property, and it reads: "The application of the seized property by the provisions of this law shall be brought by a natural or legal person, former owner or legal successor, or legal successor, in charge, i.e. its legal followers, churches and other religious communities, or their legal followers, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. Registration of reported assets - the property register, is conducted as a public and electronic database. "It is that, when it comes to the recording process, there can be no harm in the fact that other entities, not only natural persons, have reported seized property under the Nationalisation Act and other laws, for the simple reason that the state would thus obtain a more complete record. I don't understand why the churches and the special duties are here, when we know that there's a lot of this property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14385	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14386	It's been a long time since the president called me, so he made a mistake and called me an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14387	Don't scare the voters, it's all right, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović is still a national MP under the current Rules of Procedure and Law. Here you go, based on that, Mrs. Leila.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14388	Because the current Rules of Procedure are not valid, they cannot become MPs, but MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14389	I will give you back time so that you may speak from the beginning and do not worry, you are alive, you are healthy, you are not part of the Bible, you are not a messenger, but you are a living and healthy messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14390	It is that I pretend to feel like an icon, but yet I'm an MP, I have a science certificate about it, and I'm going to have to multiply and divide all of you so that you know how to refer to me in the next period. A joke aside, to do this job. I decided to support the amendment we just heard from MP Markovic. Also, I think it is necessary to accept such an amendment for the reasons that it is said in the explanation that this article, which stipulates that only natural persons are required to apply to a circle of persons who have the right to report seized property, which are former owners, and I want it to be explained to me, (I am sorry that there is no minister to explain it to me) – how that the employees and all the legal persons mentioned here do not also report their property, since they are also former owners. How will they get their property back if there's a law on denationalisation if they didn't report it? Of course, from the perspective of this law, for which I must show that I do not like it at all and that the Democratic Party will not support it unless an amendment to Article 9, which provides for the recording of immovable property, is to suspend the traffic of immovable property in this recording, so that one day, when the restitution law is passed, there is nothing to return, not to alienate everything in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14391	I thank you for supporting the Serbian Academy of Science. Here you go, Mr. Krasic. About the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14392	The applicant of this amendment has tried to correct something that cannot be corrected. Can't make a bad bill look like the law. Of course, I appreciate Mr Markovic's efforts, but what he suggests as a change in Article 3.'s attitude also does not fall under those legal-technical provisions which would have the character of the technical regulation, because it still goes into essence and prejudges some of the things that need to be resolved possibly by some future law. No matter how much you try to avoid it, in attitude one, you've defined who's involved in the process. This law does not have that claim because it regulates only the procedure. If you speak in Article 3 who can be a party, then you take risks, because in later provisions you do not have the appropriate provision to indicate why someone does not recognise the status of a party. It's impossible for all applications to be accepted. Not everyone can bring some paper and say, "Please record me and that property." The managing authority should appreciate whether these assets exist, whether those assets are covered and whether they are in some causal relationship with the person who filed the application. If you're already doing it, then you're missing the material regulation. Furthermore, this amendment has been filed by a party that advocates not to obsess over property rights, at least that's how I understood it in the principle debate. You are already in the last row of attitude 1. You are talking about a deadline that looks like a deadline that is too inclusive, where you say, "in six months from the day of entry into force of this law". The amendment is trying to correct something, but it's impossible to correct such a bad bill. This amendment raises another question. Until a few years ago, we divided legal persons into two categories: the so-called Civil-legal persons and socio-legal persons. A classic example of a civil-legal person is a religious community, and a classic example of a social-legal person is – where there is a registered organization that is able to be the bearer of rights and obligations and that corresponds to some property without having founding capital defined by the name and last name of a natural person. So now you're returning something that used to be, and the central provision of the bill is that you're doing a legally impossible thing: by law, as a general act, you're reviewing individual acts. It's forbidden, it can't be done. This is a law that, when compared to criminal law, would look like an amnesty law. By law of amnesty, you release criminal prosecution or release persons who are convicted of certain crimes covered by the Amnesty Act. It's impossible to make a parallel with civil law. This is the impossible job you're doing. By quality, this law is three classes worse than the Extraprofit Tax Act. Yesterday, I explained to you that it was a law of law. I'm just waiting for the day when Vucetic's court will declare the whole law unconstitutional because it's retroactive. Furthermore, you have succumbed to the pressure of the heirs, and this law, in the first article, speaks of the process of recording and reporting property on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You have this property record in the catastra, in the land books, in the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia; therefore – unnecessary law. If you are going to be denationalised, make a regulation on denationalisation and insert three, four, five provisions concerning the procedure, if they are specific and there is a need for some specificity in relation to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. But you won't do it. You simply want to cowardly how you've done something, and you haven't done anything. You're just going to fight people, you're going to make an even bigger mistake, a team before, as a competent state body, you're setting up a governing organization that's the government's power of attorney in property matters. Totally messed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14393	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendments of the MP of the SRS and the MP of the DS had the same goal. We believe that the whole law cannot appear in this form and be adopted in the Assembly, so so does its Article 3. I think that Mr Markovic, by his amendment, tried to correct what the Serbian government's proposal was; Mr Markovic went on to try to define some more cases that were not foreseen by the draft law made up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but then we could go ahead. First of all, you are aware that there are no heirs in these cases, because when a desert debate is held, the property left behind by the decuus is determined to be the subject of a desert debate. What's the case before the court, it's shared. This property was not the subject of discussion because it was not inherited. On the other hand, let me give you one specific example. Maybe we can deal with him and the lawyers, whose matter is the basic business. Before 9 March 1945, a large part of the assets had political parties. You do not foresee here the bill of law that there are legal followers of political parties and that property taken away by political parties will be returned. If Mr. Markovic has already introduced the responsibilities, why not introduce the concept of political parties as well. The question would be raised, in order to fight to declare in a crowd of 400 political parties which party is a legal follower of the party that had property before World War II. For example, we Serbian radicals know what was the property of a party whose followers we are, and you would challenge us if we showed up with such a request before you. We're not gonna show up, don't worry. We're principled against getting anything back, so we're not even looking for radical property before World War II. I'm just warning you of the indeterminateness of the bill and that you haven't thought about much that can be dangerous for Serbia. Here, let me suggest that you withdraw from the procedure this law, strengthen the country, that our budget is sufficient not to receive salaries for 50 days and that there are not so many unemployed in the country; that there are no bribes, corruption and crime, that we become a normal country and that we can, by budget law, provide for restitution funds; that they do not choke and suffer Serbian citizens. What are you getting the next government or this government into, if you welcome the next budget? You're getting her into a property refund, mostly it's going to be cash. Now there's no funding in the budget for anything but naked survival, in a budget that's enormously charged with taxes, excises, consumption. Not by production, by consumption. What do you mean next year or those years you start paying back huge debts? You know it's about tens of billions. Or is this, as I think, calculated on the propaganda effect? But you didn't achieve it. This proposal is being objected against by those who think that once their property will be returned to them. You didn't convince them to think straight either. I know you don't mean it. I have long come apart with the fact that a government, which is a conglomerate of more political parties, can honestly plead anything. I'm long gone with the fact that this government can honestly make any public statement. No more honesty in Serbia's governments over a long period of time. That's why I suggest again - withdraw this bill from the procedure. It's much easier than having a law that won't have any effect; much simpler and much easier. I suggest, let's talk about what weighs Serbia the most. Let's stop this session and start talking about Kosovo and Metohija, let's talk about crime, bribery and corruption afterwards; let's do what the people here have chosen us to do. We're dazzled here by the bill of return of property seized after a strict date in 1945. None of you dare come out here and say why this date, why not March 6th, why not March 5th? How many people will be redamaged, not only damaged by paying the poor into a budget that you will be able to smell the heirs of rich people or associates of occupiers, or Germans, but also by remaining an unsuspecting part of those whose assets have been seized, for example, by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Think a little more seriously about what you're doing. I'm offering you co-operation, to work seriously on the topics that life means.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14395	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. As one MP here finally came to the hall and decided to participate in the work; and these days and not only these days, but also as foreign minister, despite the oath he took - to protect his country and to protect territorial integrity and sovereignty - he was traveling around the world, selling his country and offering these parts of Serbia's territory and now as a national MP, and that the SPS has no different way of protesting; we, as MPs of the SPS, will leave this hall in the next five minutes, in protest over his presence in the assembly hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14397	Anybody else report for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14398	I can't wait, and we've got a feasibility study, but we haven't had the MPs sensitizing enough – to get further, so that we and the Democrats get sensitified. You have seen that the amendment of MP Markovic also provides for registration in the register – I have brought the wrong amendment – means that the register is kept in electronic form. We have concluded in the DS parliamentary group, if you do not agree with this first part, i.e. the extension of the person who is due to report his property, given that member who provides for a special law on responsibilities and churches – that it is very important for us to adopt an amendment that provides for electronic registration and the public of that data. We've passed a law on the availability of information. It is necessary that such assets and applications of this kind be recorded in electronic form, given that we have also submitted to Article 5 an amendment providing for a deadline for issuing a certificate of this. We believe that, if we want legal certainty in the state, we must have available and publicly recorded assets available to everyone, as well as obtaining feedback that entered the register. In order to obtain that feedback within that time limit proposed in the amendment to Article 5, it is only possible if we have electronic records. Since I think the minister is in charge of this law, the man who is thinking properly, I was hoping that he would accept the amendment at the very meeting and explain this amendment. That's why I'm very sorry he's not present and he can't free us, or he can do that to us so we don't have to vote on him, and I think it's necessary for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14399	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? If not, we move on to the next amendment. Comrade Ruzdić, would you return our reminder? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14400	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the registration and registration of seized property, as this article stipulates: "that the provisions of this law do not apply to earlier owners or their successors, i.e. legal followers whose law or international contract lays down the right to compensation for the disbursement of property on the burden of a foreign state". The big question is what did the Proposer want to achieve in the first place in this Article 4 especially given that the proposing representatives and these ruling coalitions will support this bill. The reasoning of Article 4 states that this article explicitly sets out a restriction on persons who are unable to submit applications, which are former owners who have received or had the right to compensation for seized assets on the burden of the foreign state. This is how Article 4, ladies and gentlemen, legal experts from the ruling coalition, is a material and legal provision. Article 4 determines who has and who has no right to respect, not with this law, of course, but with some of the following who will be brought in, if we are reminded of Article 1 which states that this law regulates the application and registration of property, or, as you said, that this is one technical law, a procedural law which cannot in any way affect and determine which rights they will have or will not have under some law that should be passed in the future. The question arises as to why you have entered this material and legal provision, because it is no doubt a material and legal provision, into this technical law, and what it is that will oblige or not commit some next congregation majority that will fully regulate the matter of denationalisation. This is another proof that you absolutely did not consider this law before you presented this bill to parliament, but that this is just another mere attempt to advertise this coalition and courting citizens before some subsequent parliamentary elections that are closer and closer. You've often followed this speaker, and when it comes to some other legal proposals, you've instructed examples of foreign states, states in the environment, in transition, which have been passed before us by some of the laws that we've passed today. It would be very interesting if someone from the ruling coalition told us which state, before the law on denationalisation and which you say is one of the conditions for entry into the European Community – passed a law on the recording of property. This, of course, was not brought by any state, because those countries that really wanted to carry out denationalisation, and they passed a law on denationalisation, not on the recording of something already recorded. In particular, there is an interesting example of Croatia, as neighbouring and formerly part of this Yugoslavia, a federal state that made decisions, or laws on the basis of which the property was taken away and which belonged to the seized property, because it never belonged to the republics of the Member States and provinces, but exclusively to the federal state. For example, when Croatia passed a law on denationalisation, which it did in 1996, it did so by strictly limiting that the right to return of nationalised property would only be granted by those who, at the time of the law, had citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. It was done in an extremely perfiduous way, because we all know it was after the action "Blash" and "Storm", when a large number of Serbian nationalities were expelled from Republika Srpska's territory. These people did not have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia at that time, and therefore, automatically under the law, they lost the right to any restitution under that law or any other law. At this point, you are passing a law on the recording of property, entering a material and legal provision into the procedural law, but you are not doing so in a way that you give someone the right, but only by denying for certain categories of person, from member to member, you are narrowing down the persistent categories of persons who in the next law, and you say will be brought, have the right to possibly some restitution. We do not believe and invite you to, if you are already in favour of denationalisation, pass a law on denationalisation, and otherwise admit that this is all one big scam and that you do not plan, nor have you ever planned, nor is there any possibility of returning any of this property to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14401	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14402	The textwriter of this bill has either confused some things or really doesn't know what's going on with us and what's going on. Until a few years ago, while there was an SRJ, a special item of the SRJ budget was: compensation for the nationalised and exploited assets paid to foreigners, 40 years ago. So when the new national-communist socialist government came in 1945- 1946, it nationalized and expunged everything and everything. But under pressure from abroad, especially France and England, there was an obligation to pay to the owners of some corporations, shareholders of some corporations – a fee in the name of the seized property. Maybe it's one of those examples and Bor and some other facilities. And that item existed in the budget, because it was modest, because it was paid for 40 and a change of years. You probably associate this member with the situation, and the fact is that in 1945, a large number of folks left or was expelled from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in some of their relations with one of their new states resolved the issue of seized property. This is what you boast, that this law does not treat folksdojcere (and 500,000 are waiting with papers and is calling for the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms), where it is not possible to make any discrimination regarding the nation, religion, race, etc. The biggest problem shown in this bill, and I have to draw attention to you -- is not directly about this, but it can serve as an analogy, something that has happened in history, besides those fighting pensions that have been paid, or combat supplements paid to NOR participants, as it is said, and a large number of foreigners enjoyed this right, which also in the federal budget was a special item for paying out to foreign fighters. I'll only give you an example of members of that Garibaldi unit, so a large number of Italians received a fighter supplement from the SRJ. I'm telling you all of this to understand that there are only political reasons, but there are no legal reasons. What is a distraction with this Article 4 is that you say that the provisions of this law do not apply, so you cite previous owners. This cannot stand in this law, because what you have stated in Article 1 of this bill speaks of the right to apply and the right to register, and does not affect the right to return. But in the texts of these articles, you talk about the right to vomit, you associate the right to vomit, and in this way you prejudge some things, and you are not authorized by this regulation to do so. The government in response to our amendments says nothing is prejudged. Well, how can it not be prejudged? You here are opening up the problem of a future administrative procedure and the fact that more parties with different interests and different demands about the same, if I may say, things that make up the property. Unnecessarily enter something you have not mastered to the end. You're ignoring a lot of things. The most important thing is that, with one general act, you destroy all individual acts and you pretend to be ignorant, like you don't have a record. Every time I repeat - you have a Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which is a administrative organisation, i.e. an exposition - an authorised representative of the government. The government is the holder of the right to use state property management. You can repay the church's seized property with one single decision within three minutes. You don't need any laws. Why? Because the government is authorized to dispose, it can be available, but you won't. And you're just throwing extra dust at article four so you're supposed to be taking care of something. Last time I read you the Protocol with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms concerning the Protection of Property. Article 1 of the Protocol clearly indicates that there is no obligation on the part of the Republic of Serbia. Why is there no obligation of the Republic of Serbia? The Convention states that the right to ownership can also be limited because of taxes and other taxes and that the state has a priority in the collection of certain claims. And if you knew that there were cases where the confiscation of property was committed because of the conviction, because he allegedly cooperated with the occupier, so he earned, I don't know, so much and so much; since there is no, the money then the confiscation of immovableity is done. It's already something that goes into criminal proceedings. You need a rehabilitation regulation or an individual decision that the person concerned has not carried out the act. You're trying to prejudge things by this law and put them all in the same basket, led primarily by the idea of heirs, who need some confirmation that they could take credit, that they could take some money and make a commitment to the state. We won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14403	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support Mr Nemanje Sarovic's amendment as a meaningful and good amendment, and I propose that in the day of voting that amendment be adopted. I would also like to take the opportunity to inform that SRS MPs have shared a hundred computers in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. six more computers have not been distributed. I call on the directors or representatives of the "Sveti Sava" elementary school from Paravala, the "Vuk Karadzic" primary school from Kosovo, the "Vladimir Nazor" elementary school from Janjevo, the "21st November" elementary school from Gojbula, as well as the "Jovan Jovanovic" elementary school from Gorazdevac and the high school from Gorazdevac – to come to Kosovo Mitrovica and to take over the computers given to them by SRS deputies. The Serbian people are pleased and are also telling other MPs that they are helping the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija individually or jointly. Normally, with the exception of Goran Svilanovic. From what I hear, an contribution is being collected to buy him an Albanian flag, which he will receive these days for a gift from Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and the initiative is starting from Obilic. Because the gentleman is not in favour of helping his people, but has also been identified as a minister to help the Cypriot Separatist to achieve their goal of an independent Kosovo. So, once again, I appeal to the directors of the schools mentioned to report, and I also thank all the MPs of the SRS. Let me remind you that Serbian radicals also donated a computer to a primary school in Janjevo, where they are members of that school, i.e. children of Croatian nationality. And they are threatened, and they need a computer, and they need a "window into the world", because those children are learning under the programme of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14405	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14406	If by chance or by mistake there were a representative of the government, his answer would be interesting, and what would happen if the president, someone who thinks it belongs to him, doesn't have a photocopy of any evidence. Does his right depend on a photocopy, does his right depend on some paper, is that possible? See what's written here, it says: with the application of Article 3 of this Act, a copy of the confiscation act or other material evidence showing the data on the seized property and the basis of the confiscation is submitted. Perhaps there is some solution that the perpetrator has been taken away, since concrete things are the subject of this law, there is no longer that perpetrator. Some property was taken away, some real estate, changed everything in the meantime, the grandson has no documents on the seizure of property, and what other material evidence is that? Furthermore, evidence of the nature of the applicant's application, if he is not an earlier owner, then a solution to the succession. At the moment of death, a desert debate opens, the property represents what was leftover property. If you're talking about the later found property, then it's about his property that was later found, and you don't have that situation here. The leaver died in 1985, the heirs received only what entered the desert mass, and these were undeniable to his property rights. If only 2006 is passed a law on the return of the seized property, then how can you tie it to 1984 in 2006, because it is not later found property. So, at the moment of the leaver's death, what you're treating as "received property" was governmental and property-defined. This is legally impossible what you're doing. Then he says: second proof of legal traceability. What do you mean by legal entourage? If you tie that to a legal person, then tell me, please, who will be the legal follower of the Afel brewery, who will be the legal follower of the Wyfert brewery? If you can define it, you can't. Further: other acts and data which the applicant considers to be relevant for its identification. I'll tell you what's going to happen right away. There will be letters, memos and other correspondence that Petar Petrovic says Janko Petrovic, although his cousin, will not be the one who has a right to this property, and that is why you bring this up, and now they will fight, and you have finished the job. So this is the administrative thing, so you imagined, where you'd probably have more parties with opposite interests. If you want to play with people, then you've told them well, it'll be a dance all the time. The law is pointless. So, the law on recording something that's already been recorded. If you have a majority, you want to throw up, you want to correct the historical injustice, you probably get some attention and you get some sympathy, but then you get most of it, and you get a law on denationalization, where you're going to solve who's right, since when it counts, in what way, in which way and in what procedure. Then you'll solve the recording issue, and now this is a fairy tale. You're forcing me to apply, because I might have some claim someday and maybe I'll exercise some right to some property, if that property exists. These are all uncertain events. No less than we're passing a law on future and uncertain events. Are you aware of the risk that they will change in a year or less the majority of this National Assembly and this someone will tear up; simply, they will put out of force this law that you will force. Then what happened, where's your legal certainty, which you guarantee that people don't get paid for nothing, file any charges? I'm telling you, at least five hundred thousand people have prepared documentation and are only waiting for this law to bury you with documentation. Study the European Convention on Human Rights and Other Freedoms so as not to make a mistake. You have nicely called for the Charter of the United Nations, where it stands; I have not read it; and further, on the basis of the General Declaration of Human Rights, there is neither; so you have called for this European Convention, and there is something quite different. In order for someone to be an expert, he needs to read the norm, but he needs to know a little bit what happened, how it happened, what other solutions were. This is how you bring in some standard that doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14407	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14408	I don't really know what else to say about this pointless bill, so that a representative of the government, (although he's not here), understands and accepts that the only normal solution to this law is to withdraw. I'm saying this, first of all, because of the principled attitude of the SRS that no law on denationalisation can be passed, or that it will not be applied. Of course, if it's on the agenda, and it won't, then we'll talk more about it. I'm talking about the reason why you who promised to pay back some of your property, of course you won't. This law provides for something that can neither be applied nor as written in Article 5 is a legal norm, because you said that, you're talking about other evidence, about other acts; you know, or you should have known the government, which acts can be evidence of former ownership. You can't say "and the other," because really, maybe by "the other" you predicted a statement from two witnesses. You're saying that a copy of the confiscation act or other material evidence from which the data on the seized property are seen, on the basis of the confiscation, should be submitted with the application. You should have told the citizens, who collect this file, to verify copies by municipalities cost from 300 to 700 dinars, that they would have to pay for it. Then you say, "proof of the identity of the applicant, unless he is an earlier owner, a solution to the inheritance, or other evidence of legal succession with the former owner or evidence of the death of the person whose property has been seized and evidence of kinship with that person." On the one hand, you're talking about an inheritance solution, and on the other hand you're only talking about determining the fact of the death of the person whose property was taken away. You have to define yourself for one or the other. One logical question arises, how many of the living former owners of this seized property were told by colleagues Krasic and Tomislav Nikolic. I hope you really realized that all this was pointless, because simply this property couldn't have been the subject of a desert procedure, because at the time of the desert procedure it wasn't the property of that person whose was once, but in social property or, I don't know, property with the right to use an enterprise and so on. I will continue again what I said about the amendment to Article 3 and the Law on Land Return, for comparison – what all situations have been like at the time of the application of this law; and I repeat again, even to this day, a considerable number of these items are not finished and it is not seen whether or not they will be completed at all. I will read again only part of the solution, where a partial solution has been found that Zečević Vukale, Vukosav, Milosava, Leposava, Stojanka, Vukosava and, according to the previously deceased sister Inosava, Veljović Radoslav – owners of immovable property marked with some numbers and, now imagine, in the catastrian municipality of South Kočanik, in the municipality of Tutin, it was found that they were owners, but cannot be returned to the land because these parcels changed catastrian numbers in the meantime. So these are some situations that happen when it's trying to apply the applicable law. It was an extralaw compared to the one that the government is proposing to us today, these days. I urge you once again, let's be serious MPs and tell the government to get serious and that it really proposes to the National Assembly some draft laws that are in the interest of all Serbian citizens, which is why we also exist, and I suppose also the Government. And withdraw this proposal, it's pointless and inapplicable. Don't put a noose around the future government's neck, that citizens who expect this to mean something and ask that future government to apply something that can't be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14409	Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14410	I thank the chairman, and I must conclude that he is the only sensible MP in this assembly. Article 5 provides for what should contain an application for the registration of assets. The DS parliamentary group considered that another position should be added in this article, as another, and it should read: "The executive recording of the property shall be issued at the latest within seven days of the date of submission of the application referred to in Article 3 of this Act." I think a certificate like this is necessary as a confirmation that we've done something that the law has ordered us to do. As far as I'm aware, there is a possibility that the Government will accept this amendment, as well as that amendment to Article 3 that I was talking about, when it was up to it, which provides for the registration of the reported assets (the property register), to run as a public and electronic database. If the Government accepts that amendment, then it will be very easy to issue certificates within the time limit I provided for in the amendment to Article 5 in seven days, because when you have electronic processed data, then it is easy to obtain confirmation. I must say that it is my pleasure that the government has seen (or at least its experts who accept it, and how it will be at the vote we will see) that it is necessary to issue a certificate and to keep an electronic record of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14411	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, then a National MP Rajko Baralic, and then a National MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14412	So, as you can see from all these discussions, few who are satisfied with this law; we of the DS have already said that we will not vote for this law, because we think that this is how it is conceived does not solve these problems. We said that we respect the fact that the ruling coalition has set off two stages in solving the restitution problem. At that time, we pointed out that it is necessary for this process to take place as quickly as possible, because indeed, compared with all the countries of the environment, we are late in terms of correcting this historical injustice. It is a matter of policy how the government, or the ruling majority, will approach this problem and we respect it, and now that the Government has proposed such a law on the recording of property – we have dealt seriously with it, but as we said in that opening statement, the fundamental problem is that this law on recording really raises doubts that it will bear fruit, i.e. in some extreme instance, that this will lead to restitution, i.e. vomiting taken away and correcting injustice. We have proposed a set of amendments that are going to make this law more content, more efficient, more effective, and only if we accept our amendments will we support the law. We also believe that people, who should be users of this law and users of the restitution institute, should thus be as satisfied as possible, as the ruling majority, the Serbian Parliament and the state would show genuine will to solve this problem. In discussions on my amendment to Article 3, which have been brought here by certain colleagues, it is indeed evident that there are major gaps, that amendments themselves may not be more significant to change the text of this law in order for it to be legally perfect, but certain improvements are possible. According to us, from what I now have here as the best possible proposal: to accept in the first article the recording of the property, i.e. the rules under which the confiscation was made, is quite clear, and these are 32 regulations, so that there will be no misunderstandings later when the restitution law is passed; then, to accept our amendment, which was just spoken of by counterpart Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, which is to issue a certificate of the registration of the property. Why do we feel that the certificate is important? Because it would, in fact, have been proof that someone had committed the recording of the property without carrying out the recording, for example, of the Serbian Parliament building. If the seduction seal itself was sufficient on any submission, and the admission of each organ receives any submission, it is simply an obligation, we would not know who recorded it, or anyone could record anything and manipulate it to third parties. In the event of the issue of a certificate, it would be understood that the number of documents, i.e. a number of documents, which makes it likely to participate in any subsequent restitution procedure at all. So that's why this certificate is necessary. That's one reason there's a certificate. The second, in our view a much more important reason for the existence of the certificate, is that if you would accept our amendment on the ban on the availability of property which was the subject of nationalisation and other procedures that it was seized in an unfair way from its owners, the interested party could go into land books and use that certificate to make a note prohibiting the availability of that property. So, he could in any procedure, when there is the possibility of a trace of this property being replaced, to react precisely by confirmation that this property was recorded and therefore entered into a certain procedure, without prejudicing the final outcome. What can happen if we now pass such a law, or if the majority in this congregation votes such a law. It may happen, among other things, that the property that is and which may be the subject of vomiting, those who are the owners of that property, are rapidly available to it, that it may change two or three owners by appropriate legal transactions and prevent restitution. So, practically to ourselves as a state, and especially to people who would be restitution users, we create a problem if we don't accept this set of amendments to the Democratic Party. One of those amendments is this certificate. It is necessary that there is this certificate, because we must distinguish the situation of rejection of someone's claim to recover property and reject someone's request, and that would be in case someone was a joke, so let's say they would take and report someone else's property and report it without any evidence, building of the National Assembly, the Square of the Republic or the Square of Nikola Pasic, or whatever it may occur to people in order to be funny or obstructing the work of the state authority. So I ask you to accept this amendment, and once again, think about the entire set of amendments to the Democratic Party, because I think that in one way, we would like to round up this story of reporting and recording property, which can first and foremost have its justification in order to finally establish the obligation of the state, that is, so that the state can formulate a way to implement the obligation to people who, 40 or 50 years ago, have been wronged.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14413	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there is a sense of the amendment submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirovic because of avoiding the risk, and I accept the argument offered by Mr Milan Markovic and Mrs Leila Ruzdic here. We will consult on this amendment and inform the motionors and representatives of the government. I think it makes sense and that we can support this amendment, but we're going to make it clear later, because in this way the whole thing is being serious, there's a risk that a number of people have extra efforts about this and it makes it impossible for a number of people to play, recording assets that are objectively not their own, and they want to joke in an unsanitary way. So, we're going to consider this amendment and we're going to come forward before there's a day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14415	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14416	With respect to the applicant for the amendment, they have made an effort to do so, and what Mr Markovic said, there is a logic there because practically three members of their amendments are changing. This has one logical overall – from the one in Article 3 to introduce a register, through Article 5 of the certificate and later this member who speaks of the ban on the traffic of that property. It doesn't fit this law. If someone submits a report, the most they can get is a confirmation of the admission. It is not regulated by law, but regulated by the office business regulation. What the amendment requires is not a confirmation of the receipt of the application, but a certificate of the registration of the property carried out. It means that the recording of the property has been carried out, so a certificate shall be issued within seven days on behalf of the applicant. See, that's where things are turned. What does it mean to confirm that the recording of the property has been made? Is that possible to do within seven days? If the recording of that property is carried out, the very act of recording is one administrative action. Any administrative action under official duty shall be subject to a solution or conclusion. This is where the certificate is issued. What's the confirmation? The closest it can be is confidence from Article 172. The General Administrative Procedure Act. The Authority shall keep records of the issue of appropriate assurances. It's a confirmation. So it's not the situation. A material-legal solution is being pushed here, and it is based on the following: the whole concept is the whole point and these pranks that are offered to citizens of the Republic of Serbia to claim future vomiting, allegedly heirs, are given some paper that could be available in advance, because there is a presumption of accuracy. If Jankovic received confirmation that property was registered on his application in the register, then the matter of the future law on vomiting is prejudged. That's why they blow into whistles, that he can take credit with that certificate, write down a mortgage, that in any other way he essentially has. This is a much more corrupt way than going with the denationalization law. That's why we're against this amendment. It can confirm receipt of registration for registration, but if the certificate of registered property is on Janko Jankovic's application, then this is not the law on recording. You by this law as far as you can go is the right to report and the right to register, and this certificate already speaks and associates the right to return. Get out of these texts. This kind of text can disrupt, bring confusion. This kind of confirmation has been memorized so far, there's no such thing. According to the office business regulation, the confirmation that the application was received is possible, the assurance of the records kept by the state authority is possible. What's this? That's the hint. The heirs and pretenders on this property do not hide their intentions. They say - please, we want to print out the user Janko Jankovic, rather than say he owns it or put it in a bracket that I got confirmation because on that basis I can import, I can work, I can borrow and advance the future immovableity that comes back to me. It's that prank that's being pushed this way. Of course, I don't object to amendments, they use their rights, they give their vision. I'm telling you, the initiators of this way of thinking want to cash their grandfather's money in advance, even though it hasn't been returned yet, and it may not be returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14417	The replica was reported by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14418	I think this still deserves a more detailed explanation. I don't think Mr Krasic may have understood our intensities well, although a number of arguments presented in today's discussion, Mr Krasic and other colleagues, are really on the issue of this law. Here I must say that I do not really agree with you because the essence is to record the property, that is, a confirmation of the recording of the property that was the subject of the confiscation – by applying Article 1 of this Act. That is the point, that there is a confirmation that it was an asset that was in 1953, 1954, 1946, 1947, never mattered, taken away. This is the essence of the story – by ensuring legal certainty and making possible further availability if that amendment is adopted later. So, we really want that, that someone can't just have a reception stamp that he gave up and it's just going to be even, whatever he's turned in, whatever he's doing, whatever he's doing, whatever he's doing for a reason to record. Here we have confirmation that it really is, let's say, we have a building across the street, left, right, and then we have confirmation that it really was the subject of an ex-consumption process, which we consider unjust today. In that sense, this amendment has been given and therefore we think it is very important that it be accepted. We have a general situation today that everyone is calling for some property to be taken away from him. I can't help but meet a man who says what my parents had in 1945! Everyone's got some property. He can also show you, to lead you astray, he can interfere with some legal work, some privatisation, anything can happen. In this case, he can do it, but you tell him, "Sir, let me see where the confirmation is that it was recorded, that it was indeed the subject of the seizure 40 to 50 years ago? "That's why I think this certificate is important, and it's especially important if the ruling majority would accept to ban the availability of that property. I fully respect our difference in acceptance of the concept of restitution: yes or no. Besides, it's already a political issue, and this was more of a matter of procedure itself. I don't think it's a material and legal provision. It really isn't. She doesn't even get into the measure of things, she doesn't touch the essence of how it's going to be solved. It's just one part of the overall process of recording property, where we're going to say that, yes, that property was once the subject of this process, which means that, under some new law, it might be the subject of a possible restitution. But, my God, no one can claim that in advance. Eventually, available to future law; in principle – it is an abuse and if someone is gullible to agree to such legal work, it is his problem. Serious people do not have a future breed, except in some cases in agriculture, when available to future wheat, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14419	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14420	Therefore, the applicant of the amendment considers that this is not a confirmation of the receipt of the application. If that is clear, then the only thing left is the assurance issued under the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. There's no other way. If an authority keeps official records, it shall issue a confirmation of the data contained in the official records. Then this confirmation is executive. I have to say, starting with what's set out in the General Administrative Procedure Act, this would be forbidden. He says, "A certificate shall be issued at the latest within seven days of the date of submission of the application referred to in Article 3 of this Act." This suggests that the right to receive that certificate has the person who reported the property. That's what you meant when you wrote the amendment. So Petar Petrovic asks for confirmation that it is issued within seven days that the competent authority has been subject to the registration of that property. Please, the property has already been registered with the Catastra, in land books, in the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. Why do you now want the new, third or fourth records to be tied to the person who filed the application and how do you think by technical regulation to resolve the individual's rights issue – do you file an application, register and receive the right to confirm that he is? That's the nonsense. The certificate is required by these future users of this right to return, so that they can have it in advance. That's their request you've been innovating, and you've framed it in this form of confirmation. Go to the cathedral and you will see, or state property – the user and that, based on the basis of which the enrolment was made, is located in the corresponding section. So, the movement of users, from the previous to the real owner, exists. If you have a majority, you want to return, bring the right material regulation, and return it. But you don't want to, a team before you have the next decision that speaks of a deadline until something is tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14421	The People's MP Petar Jojic, on the amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to record property and to determine the true facts, it's not enough for someone to get some confirmation. It is necessary that the authority involved in the recording examines the evidence held by the applicant, i.e. the application, and in my view should be the request, and then that the authority responsible for the recording should carry out the fact-finding procedure – whether, on the basis of the written evidence available, the applicant has evidence on the basis of which the relevant decision of that authority would be made, that, in the next period, when conditions are obtained, the applicant of the application and, in the other case, the applicant, had evidence that the State authority established that the property had been seized, both in relation to movable and immovable property, and that its value was established. Without these facts, which should be established by the authority which is to determine if this law, or confirmation, is adopted, will not be sufficient to apply for recovery of the property itself. The Authority, which determines these facts, will have the biggest problems with written evidence, as it cannot be recorded on the basis of witnesses, but based on written evidence and decisions by state authorities that have taken up property on various grounds. These data are spliced and they are found precisely in the deposit of competent archives by regions in the Republic of Serbia. The very confirmation, concerning the amendment submitted by Mr Markovic, is not enough. It would be enough to reach a solution by that authority, which will determine these facts. This solution, if the conditions are obtained and the return law is passed, the applicant is required by the legislator, because in the previous first-degree procedure for the recording of the property, it is undeniably determined what is the person, physically or legally, taken from 9 March 1945 and further, on the basis of 32 legal rules. Without a decision, but that decision has a legal force, a simple recording, it's just plain beeping, and it has nothing to do with the determination of certain facts and that, after the law on vomiting is passed, it can be evidence that a particular person's property is returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14423	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14424	Both amendments that make up one continent, both the electronic base and the confirmation, indeed this law – no matter what you think of it personally – still make it content. One thing and another is important. I stood up in front of the G17 plus to ask the members of the government here to think and accept the amendment of Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Mr. Markovic, that he become an integral part of this law, and we will vote for the law, no matter what we think of him. The amendments are good. I think we're wandering about the legal nature of the certificate itself. It is neither the basis for property nor any evidence of its substance itself, and it should be taken exactly as it says: it is a confirmation that certain property is recorded. This will be very important when the law is passed, because we are absolutely sure that the basic principle of restitution will be primarily vomit in the physical form of everything that is possible. So that certificate will, in the balance sheeting of all of this, shorten the story, because it will be absolutely certain what will come back in physical form, and then the burden on the budget or anyone else is zero, because then there is no such value. What's impossible is that after that it'll cost. Therefore, it is also the practical force of this certificate. It wouldn't be bad if both the electronic database and this, and I'm sorry the minister isn't here, and I'm quite sure of his expertise, and I know what he thinks about restitution, I think he would have already finished the story with those two amendments today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14425	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Nikola Novakovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS of course knows what he thinks about this amendment and even about this law. I have to admit that it's a little odd that this finding of some parliamentary groups is going to vote for this bill, no matter what they think of it. I think it's at least hypocritical to go out here, criticise the law, and in the past few days, as long as this debate goes on, no one seems to me, from any of the parliamentary groups, has said anything positively about this law. The minister may have been missing after the first hour of the debate. This very fact best speaks of the law, namely that the law is extremely bad and that even so many Members of the ruling, the majority who will vote for this law, cannot absolutely find any word of justification or praise possible for this law. The amendment provided for in Article 5 which provides for the recording of assets, i.e. the issue of a certificate of registration made no later than seven days, I do not think it is clear to the applicants of this amendment themselves, and especially when we hear their argument. The big question is whether this certificate of registration should be a declarative character or whether a right is established by issuing this certificate. Under this law, you should expect not thousands, but tens of thousands, and perhaps even hundreds of thousands of applications to register certain assets. Then it's amazing how you think the Directorate needs to issue a confirmation within seven days that certain assets have been recorded. Whether the Directorate will automatically, upon receipt of a particular application, issue that certificate or, in order to issue the certificate, have to verify the accuracy of the allegations given in that application. So, whether a specific directorate will have to check whether the application is filed and true, whether it will check in the cataster, in the land books, whether the state archive is looking for this original nationalisation solution or for confiscation or any other way of confiscation of the property to be done, thus verifying the truthfulness of this data, or simply on the basis of the application, will issue a certificate of registration. If the Directorate had not previously had an obligation to verify the truthfulness of this application, then it would certainly lead to the exact opposite of what you asked for, it would mean legal uncertainty, not legal certainty. Then anyone could submit an application for any property, knowing there wouldn't be any checks and then, based on that certificate to himself, in fact, usurping some right that doesn't belong to him in any way. If you adopt a second concept, that this property registration certificate does not establish any right, or that the directorate must first verify the truthfulness of that application, then what will happen when within seven days, for example (if a state or religious holiday falls in that period, it is possible to be even less than five working days for the conduct of the state authority), if the Directorate fails to process all these applications and the deadline expires, whether the principle which otherwise knows the administrative law will apply, on the silence of the administration. If the Directorate does not respond negatively within seven days, then it is considered that a solution, conclusion or any other act which actually recorded this property has been made. It is completely unclear what the objective of this amendment is. If, I repeat, this act on recording the declarative nature, then it has no importance whatsoever, it can only have that act on which a solution to denationalisation, confiscation, an inheritance solution and anything else is made. Then this application, i.e. the solution to the recording, is completely unnecessary and without purpose, and if this solution establishes a right, in which case this will lead to gross abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14427	Replica, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14428	There were a few things here that deserved a certain explanation. First, the Law on General Administrative Procedure is often mentioned. The General Administrative Procedure Act shall be subsidized when a certain procedure is not regulated by another law. So, we have brought here, say, a lot of laws, and one of them was the Law on Planning and Construction, where a whole series of provisions, which previously applied to the General Administrative Procedure, changed and predicted a completely different procedure, let's say for the delivery of applications in the inspection procedure, etc. You don't have to make that sound like an argument at all. As far as this seven-day deadline is concerned, I understand that it may be somewhat controversial; it is clearly stated here in the amendment that "on the carrying out of the recording of the assets of the certificate shall be issued no later than seven days from the date of submission of the application referred to in Article 3. The law. I remind you that the application referred to in Article 3 means the delivery of copies of the confiscation act, other material evidence, etc. There are about six or seven rows of conditions to be met with the application itself. It is normal for the Authority, if all evidence is missing, to correspond with the applicants and to require that it be completed. In that case, no period of seven days shall apply. As for this general institute of silence of the administration, it certainly can't be applied not only here, but it can't be applied anywhere after only seven days. There's no talking about his application, and I don't know what he'd mean in this case. I'm going back to the beginning of the story. It is understood that within one reasonable period, and within seven days it is completely reasonable, a confirmation is given if all evidence has been provided that this property was once a long time ago the subject of confiscation under these laws. If such evidence does not exist, the Authority may communicate with the party on this issue, i.e. the party itself will be interested and will ask the competent authority to issue the certificate and will ask what more needs to be delivered. There's no special duty here, because I don't think that would be possible at this point. I even think that despite what is said and here is often mentioned, (I go a minute on a broader topic) that all these records exist, I tell you, unfortunately – these records do not exist, at least not in that form and in that way that would be good enough to actually record this property. I'm very sorry that citizens are getting into a situation where they have to apply for what they've already been taken from them once, but what to do. Unfortunately, that's right, this used to be a big state, a federal state, a federal administration. You don't know that much, to tell you the truth, not for documents from 15 or 20 years ago where they are, let alone for documents from 40 or 50 years ago. I'm telling you this from experience; I've been working in a municipality – the nationalisation solutions are mostly gone, they've disappeared over time, etc. It is necessary for citizens to participate in this process, and the state must enable citizens to have their participation in this process without any burden, republican, administrative, municipal or any taxi, and thus to find some right to measure in order to achieve the objective, and the aim is to correct that injustice from decades ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14429	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14430	I would specifically refer to the amendment, because the previous speaker claimed it would be absolutely impossible for a state body to appear on official duty in the process of restitution, i.e. the return of property taken from former owners. If we take the example of expropriation, according to the Expropriation Act, there is an institute – if for example. the unknown address of the previous owner at the time when a fair fee should be fixed – temporary agent. Since the expropriation procedure does not become obsolete with regard to the performance of a fair fee, an interim agent shall, under official duty, be determined, even if a fair compensation between the former owner and the expropriation user is not reached, and the court itself in a non-partisan procedure is obliged to appoint a temporary representative in the procedure of determining the fair compensation of the court, if the fair compensation is not achieved by means of an agreement with the administration authority. Why is it important to report property? In the event that a fair fee, as stated in Article 1 of this Act, is not determined in the procedure of expropriation, natural persons i.e. The former owners have the right to file a registration application. In the particular case that I state, where a legal situation will occur that it will not be able to do so before the owner, because the authority of the administration was not able to find an earlier owner, but rather determined by a temporary representative, or by a court in an outsider procedure; for this reason it comes to the situation that the former owners, because of the lack they cannot find, will be damaged in the beginning. However, I would point to this occasion a legal situation which is also in contradiction with the bill. The expropriation law itself allows for the return of previously seized assets, and that -- in what way? In such a way that there is a procedure in order to ensure that certain immovableity is not brought to the purpose of expropriation, and due to the course of the fraud, the owners have the right to seek recovery of such expropriated assets, while through this bill, when recording immovableity in the beginning, such earlier owners shall prevent them from registering the property. And this is a prerequisite that in the new law, which will provide itself for the return of expropriated assets, such former owners, who, under the Expropriation Act, would have the right to seek vomit, appear in general to be taken away, i.e. Exploded assets. In the Expropriation Act, there is also an institute that, due to lack of economic interest (if a larger complex ofexploded land of the previous owner remains a smaller plot) to process the plot, expropriation of such a plot. However, in the process of expropriation, this was known at the outset, meaning that the user of the expropriation did not need this immobility and in the process of that expropriation it is common that such immovableities should be returned, despite the fact that a fair fee is determined by the users of the expropriation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14431	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from National MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. This member is very often mentioned in the principle discussion of all the MPs in this National Assembly, as it prescribes that the application of the seized property can be made by 30 June 2006 at the latest. Many have analyzed this article, from an angle, that the deadline is very long. We've heard a lot about it, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now, although I can agree with them that it's really an enormously long deadline that can be shortened. In yesterday's discussion, I mentioned the position that this law should resolve differently, which is that the state assumes the obligation to record in a certain exocial procedure, hence the procedure under official duty, what has been taken from the citizens and which is to be returned in any subsequent procedure. When it comes to that, then it is clear why I suggested that this member be deleted. However, that is not the only reason, there are many others. On the condition that it is prescribed as such, it should be said that the deadline is extremely long. Namely, every municipality, every local community, is able to provide the Directorate with data on this property in a very short period of time, with a maximum length of 15 to 30 days. In this way, the records will be complete, and more importantly, much safer than if any successors or legal supersects are registered for registration. So we have practical reasons that suggest that this member should be deleted, but we also have those political reasons why this article is not applicable. I think we should start with one basic finding. It is a contractual relationship between the state and the individual, and if it goes from there that the individual and the state are in one specific bond, we must start from the point of view that the bond must have certain legal certainty. By prescribing and passing such a law, we question the legal certainty of which SRS MPs insisted. If we were to analyze it like this, we'd have to know some more things, which is that two basic concepts were intertwined and confused here – the notion of an obsolescence of property rights and the notion of an obsolescence of the right to claim a certain property. These are quite different terms. Namely, to seek a certain right is prescribed by certain laws and there is a deadline. We insisted that the deadline had passed because it was an absolute deadline. So, a double-term deadline than usual, as prescribed by the law. When it comes to that, then this law is questionable and it doesn't make sense. There's still no point in this article that I've submitted to the amendment. I must say, if we wanted to do something and if the ruling majority wanted to bring something, then we should respect the Law on Bond Relations, Article 366, to acknowledge in writing the claim to those whose property was taken away. With this act decided by the Government and this proposal does not recognise this right. Therefore, the state does not recognise the right of the owners of which the property has been seized. It is only when this kind of bond is established between a state and an individual that can take place in an interstep, which might be called this – the property recording law. Until then, we have taken some steps that are absolutely out of line with the current positive regulations of our country. In the end, I have a few things to say. In most European rights, and even in our formerly applicable Law on Inheritance, there was one limiting term until when heirs could seek their legacy. According to the last applicable law published in Official List No. 52/74, it was published in 1974 – there was an explicit legal provision that heirs could claim inheritance within 10 years. After that, this law has been amended and this right has become unlimited, but I call for earlier provisions and for the provisions of most of the applicable inheritance laws in Europe. So, the European laws have limited the deadline within which it can be required, and you are already making a paradox in the 9th article and saying that the right is lost if it passes and does not end with 30 June 2006. For this practical reason, this amendment should be adopted and the provisions prescribed by Article 6 should be put out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14433	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic. There's enough of us, as far as I can see from here, about 120 of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14434	If this bill is a technical regulation, then this provision must not exist. Apparently, something is reported only until June 30, 2006, and what will be July 1st, 2006? So there's no right to report. And what does that mean? By June 30th 2006, the state will receive applications and will see within the next deadline that is its obligations. That's very unserious. This law only regulates the right to apply. However, you can see for yourself in Article 1, 2, 3, 4, provisions on rights, not registrations, but on rights, who can be a party and what the party can count on in a future procedure, and under the provisions of a future law. What you're doing is impossible, and this is becoming extremely pointless, and for what? If you haven't respected the deadline, but you're returning everything to something that was 60 years ago, then you have to find an answer to the question why didn't you return it to 70, 120, 220. Do you think only 1945 was wronged? Our history says there's always been injustice here. What are some deadlines for? I'm not inclined to talk here about the claim, because this is still one administrative or administrative matter. It is only in the outlines to become a claim, but it is originally becoming a administrative matter and will be resolved in the administrative procedure. The rules of the administrative procedure say that the individual administrative act becomes final, and under certain conditions and judicial conditions, it undertakes. It is possible to renew the procedure, a request for the protection of legality is possible, and deadlines have expired for all of this. This is about the legal status quo that's over. You intend to carry out an amnesty of end-of-laws by some future law. That's wrong. Here you go, and you say, so property law is universal law, but in order to regain and establish a new right of property, you go through a technical regulation that becomes relatively right, and two things don't go with each other. You provide universal protection, and you limit it by technical regulations. I'm sure whoever wrote the text of this bill has nothing to do with it. He simply wrote some provisions, put in something like registering, applying, and this is the first step where we can see how many faces there are and what property it is. Knowing the practice of this government, including the previous one, would not surprise me if the government had survived the following year, at this time the draft law on amendments and amendments to this law, where Article 6 is amended, so on June 30th, 2006, it moved to June 30th 2008, as it would not surprise me that no law on restitution was ever passed, on the return of property. So, I wouldn't be surprised if it were to pass (and it is likely to pass) this intervention concerning Articles 5 and 5 of that certificate that we just talked about, that within a few months after the adoption of this law there is a law on amendments and additions to this law with one single provision – that this certificate becomes evidence of property and that it can be in legal traffic, that it serves as a pledge or on the basis of it to enter a mortgage and so on. The law is bad, the law is legally impossible, there is no constitutional basis for this law. There's only political will. If there is already this political will, then I must tell you that this political will is not in line with relevant international documents that regulate the issue of property protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14435	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14436	It's not nice, and it's not even in line with the Rules of Procedure to work without a quorum, but of course I don't intervene, I guess the chairman will, because it's his business obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14437	As visually as I can see, there are 120 of us, if I tried to count.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14438	Look at the screen or stand up and count like this. I hope that after this, the chairman will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I will discuss the amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. So it's proposed to delete Article 6. Again, I stress that such a formulation is in line with the principled position of the SRS that once taken away property should not be returned. And I say again, we will talk about it if one day such a law is on the agenda but, regardless, Article 6 should be deleted, because it is completely pointless to set a deadline; for some reasons unknown, it has occurred to us that just 30 June 2006 is the deadline for registering and registering property. Why isn't another date, we don't know. But, let me remind you, fellow Members of Parliament, of the Law on Planning and Construction, of the discussions of the SRS MPs at the time, when we said that no date could be set without any criteria and that the then reporting of illegally built objects was aimed only at filling the budget from charging taxis. It turns out that the Serbian radicals were right then, that it was indeed the goal just to register demands and take administrative fees, to fill the budget and not to start two years after that with the legalisation of buildings built without a building permit. Now I remind you of that, because this is a lot like the provision of that law at the time, because you have now set a deadline, that is, a specific deadline on 30 June 2006, until when it is due to apply for some seized property. Of course you'll take an administrative fee with those applications. There will only be a bunch of complex cases that will not be debated, because there is no legal basis to be discussed, because there is no law on restitution and there will be no law. You're aware of that, but you're throwing dust into the citizens' eyes, that part of the citizens who expect such a law, to whom you promised it. It remains unclear if you would remain this Article 6, when you are actually planning to pass the return law of the seized property. Whether it will be June 30, or July 1st, 2006, and then you will say that the law applies only to those who have already reported the property or are planning to pass the law in the meantime. That's what we asked the first day when the government was here, we didn't get an answer, and we don't have an answer until today when you're actually planning to bring it, or to propose to the National Assembly to discuss the law. Of course, you do not have that answer, because you have no intention at all to pass such a law, but you are also distracting the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia with this law on the recording and reporting of property, which you have called some kind of technical solution – technical law. So, all this is completely unnecessary and once again I urge you, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to accept this amendment, to delete article 6, from this bill. And the best solution would be for a government official to finally come here and say that the government has changed its mind and is withdrawing this law, and that we MPs are doing much more serious and much more important things than the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14439	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14440	Ladies and gentlemen, the law to be a law must have sanctions. In this case, with the bill of this law, it's gone. A very important question is raised, which is – what will the administration do if it rejects the application of persons submitted to the competent state authority. What a citizen will do if he submits a request to an archive or to any other state body where existing records are kept, and that state body does not respond within a time period and provides material evidence or writing with which a citizen is required to legislate. The promoter forgot and failed to oblige the state authorities to issue a document on the basis of which they can legislate with the competent state authority, at the request of the citizens to whom the property was seized. What if the administration rejects the application because it seeks a solution to the inheritance, and a citizen whose legal predecessors were deprived of his property did not even conduct a desert procedure under the Legacy Act, because he had no legacy at the time of the death of his legal predecessor. We're going to have a lot of problems, a lot of problems, and the citizens won't be able to exercise their rights as the proposer predicted. In the final provisions, the Proposer had to propose and commit state authorities, but at the same time to provide for sanctions for those who do not issue documents on the basis of which they can be legislated with competent state authorities. There is no appeal against such a solution, i.e. against a decision rejecting the application. The state authority can say - the application is messy, the application is incomplete, it is rejected, and the citizen has knowledge that the property has been taken from his legal predecessors, however, the state authorities, and the administration in that case will not help citizens to exercise their rights. State archives will take 3,000, 4,000 dinars, only to request that he issue photocopies of certain documents or criminal convictions, or that land-book documentation be recorded catastraically and photocopyed, again costs on behalf of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14441	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 82 of Section 2 and Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the first says that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present at the session, while the fourth member's position says the quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system. Also, Article 28(1) has been injured, which says, among other things, that the National Assembly’s chairman, in this case the chairperson, is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is obvious, Mr Angelkovic, by applying the electronic system, that 73 MPs are present in the hall right now and that, therefore, the conditions laid down in Article 82(2) have not been met, and I ask you to interrupt the session, i.e. to set a break until the conditions for the continuation are obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14443	Expressing that there are not enough MPs is only a suspicion that we need to confirm by electronic vote, but since the chairman has the right by the Rules of Procedure to set a break of an hour when he deems it necessary, I set a break of up to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. Please at first determine the quorum. I find that the electronic system shows that we have a quorum to work with. We continue on the amendment to Article 6, which was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Replica, Mr. Mika Vlaovic, was mentioned during the morning and was not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14445	Ladies and gentlemen, in the afternoon session, I wasn't here for a moment, so perhaps it was deliberately used, and perhaps by chance, to say something I didn't say in this assembly. Maybe I should be blacked out in front of people who need to get their property back. These people know my position well, because while I was not an MP in the Serbian Parliament, I went with the League and with organizations that fought for the return of property. I have always advocated the return of small and great possessions to everyone, because of the torment and the collection, and the disowning of all things, and because of one other truth, that one day this historical injustice should be rectified, that there should be a reminder to all in the future that no one should reach out and rob other people's property. If it's well-intentioned, I don't want to say more, and I'd like the gentleman to come out and confirm. If not, then I'll tell you the truth, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14446	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I've been informed that since 4:00 a.m. it's gonna be a game broadcast on TV, so we won't be able to continue our work after 4:00 p.m. Now there is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14447	Mr. President, your obligation was to ask MPs if anyone else wanted to talk about an amendment submitted to article 6 by MP Milan Stevovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. You obviously skipped it because you didn't chair until the midday break. In your seat Mr. Zoran Angelkovic sat down and he was clear in 13.40 aces that there was no more quorum to work with. The electronic system showed that there were 75 MPs in the hall, and several of us reported talking about an amendment submitted to article 6 by MP Milan Stevovic. That is why it is necessary for you, from the post of chairman, to make it possible for the Members of Parliament to work quickly, not to move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-20-0.u14448	I'm guessing you weren't following. We have a stenogram. First I asked if anyone wanted to talk about that amendment. Since no one answered, after that, before I moved on to the next amendment – we can check, there is no reason to rely on hearing, we will check for a stenogram – I gave the word to the MP Miki Vlaovic, who answered for the replica. So we moved to the amendment submitted by MP Milan Markovic, where no one answered the word either. Now, as I said, according to the Rules of Procedure, before we move on to Article 7, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, we interrupt work, because we have no transmission within three minutes. We wouldn't want there to be any reports we can't make. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I call on you to pay our respects to Dragoslav Dragoslav Draža Markovic, president of the Serbian Parliament from 6 May 1969 to 19 April 1974. Praise him! I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Veroljub Stevanović, Dejan Rajcic and Vladimir Jovanovic. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Application and Evident OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION (specificities) We are moving on to a review of the amendment to Article 7, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
