ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-14-0.u19600	Twelfth Extraordinary Session 14th September 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 3:30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-14-0.u19601	We open the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, called for 14 September 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meeting is attended by 206 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 84 MPs are present in the hall, which is necessary to begin. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Zoran Alimpic, Anita Beretic and Dobrica Jankovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for agenda acts in its request for the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be established by the government. What's the problem? Don't play, please. Since the electronic system shows that 128 MPs are present in the hall, we can access the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 21, 22 and 23 August 2005 and the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30 August 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 21, 22 and 23 July and 22 August 2005. For 125, it did not vote three out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 21, 22 and 23 July and 22 August 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30 August 2005. For 124, against one, not three voted, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30 August 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was convened at the government's request, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 12th extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance workers, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and new benefits, which the Government has submitted, 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, which the Government has made, 6. Proposed criminal code, submitted by the Government, 7. A Bill on Juvenile Crimes and Criminal Protection of Juvenile Persons by the Government, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the execution of criminal sanctions, filed by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law on the programme for the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a Veterinary Act, submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratory, which was submitted by the Government. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on... What? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: You can't work. I can work, but the question is whether it will be possible to vote, and that's something else entirely. So, MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out. In order to make that clear, 126 MPs are required to be present in the room. Since the electronic system shows that it's not like that right now... Please, it is, then, okay. In that case, it shows 127, I apologize. At the end of the line, we'll see during the vote. He proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, - Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans, - Proposal for a Law on Payment of Contributions to Pension and Disability Insurance for Individuals, - Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, - Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines. So points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. Then, a joint principled search on: - Proposal of a criminal code, - Proposal for a law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors, - Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, - Proposal for a law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure (paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10). I, joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Veterinary Law, and - Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys (paragraphs 11 and 12 of the agenda). I ask if Parliamentarian Milorad Albianic wants a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 122, against one, it did not vote seven out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs nine plus nine – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDP MPs, two independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to a joint principle search of the 1-5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE PIO LAW, VOLVAL PENSION FUNDS, PAYMENT OF THE PUBLICATIONS AND PRESIDENTS IN THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORS BEFORE I GIVE THE ENTRY TO THE PROPOSITORS IN THIS POINTS, Due to the large number of amendments received to these points, so that the parliamentary groups can prepare themselves, I am giving a break. The continuation of this debate, whose original search we opened tomorrow at 10 o'clock. The assembly won't take office on Friday, Monday will. At the same time, I ask all members of the Justice and Administration Committee to continue their work in the third-floor hall right now because of the large number of amendments that have arrived and which everyone is interested in. Thank you for today's responsibilities and pleasant.
