ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15032	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, to Article 102, which speaks of an act on determining the category of catering facility. Items 2 and 3 of the members reads: "If the host has not filed a re-determination request by the expiry date of the category-setting act, the catering facility will be deleted from the register of categorized catering facilities. In the case referred to in Article 1, point 4 of this Article, the minister shall adopt an act to delete the catering facility from the register of categorized catering facilities. "The amendment proposes: "If the catering facility for the period of validity of the category-setting act has been imposed for the second time within two years for the infringement referred to in Article 126(4) of this Act, as well as for the failure to respect good business customs and aliens, the ministry may reduce or withdraw the category, for a period of three months to two years. "My amendment determines when the ministry can reduce or take away the category of catering facility. Unfortunately, the Serbian government has imposed such taxes and imposes that it is simply more invaluable to hold any catering facility, and to make it profitable, except for those in the city centre. For more than ten years, I've been in catering, and I can freely say that there's never been anything worse than today, because unfortunately, the pub has become a luxury. It is known that our people are friendly and likes to go out in bars. Gentlemen, it is up to you to fix the standard of citizens, so those with deep pockets will be able to think about summering and wintering, as well as the tour of our churches and monasteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15033	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are nearing the end of the debate on amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and we have come to the categorization of catering facilities, i.e. with this, I would say, we have moved on to the specific provision of services by the owners of catering facilities. Probably because of his modesty, Radic, who is the applicant of the amendments on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, did not want to tell you that family tradition, in the place where he lives and where he is from – Lapovo municipality, his family is exactly providing such services. The locals of the municipality know that they, as the tradition is passed on to Radic from knee to knee, managed by the fact that it is most important for them that the customer of the catering services is satisfied. So it's probably both that quality and everything that goes along with providing such a service the reason why for decades and the success of their family's traditional work. If someone who is also an example of good business has suggested that, for non-aware colleagues and owners of catering facilities that do not comply with the legal provisions or which do not comply with the prescribed conditions, especially when it comes to categorization, one such measure will be introduced, then make sure that it improves the quality of the catering service and that all others will take a good example not only in this particular case of the applicant of the Radic amendment, but all those who are trying to, after obtaining the permit for work, respect and price each of their guests' left behind dinar. This today, however, (we talked about it before the end of the debate on Thursday), is not the case, especially when it comes to providing services on the magistrate's roads, it is not for everyone, and on the highway, not because the service is bad, but because of the lack of facilities categorized for this frequency, especially foreigners who are in transit; we as a state in general have a problem. We have a problem because strategic tourism and the connection of this type of service is not in line with those other jobs that the state needs to do, which are capital investments. At the beginning of the debate in the principle of the Tourism Law proposal, I told you that it is best to increase the number of employees in Serbia through services. In fact, you know that in order to create new jobs in an industrial branch, there is a much greater accumulation of capital, in terms of opening new production plants, racing with new technology, what should be our product that will compete on the foreign market, but also in our case, it needs priority to be the concern of every government, which has not shown this current Kostunica government. But, since tourism is not a branch of the economy that is in all countries, so it is not our priority, in that sense, through such negative indicators in hospitality, it exhibits this, in economic terms, depressing character. Again, all of this is conditioned by the general situation and the standard of the population. Where there is a truly quality service and a long tradition in this business, people who do so cannot be watched that some others, who have rightly or for some other reason, have begun to engage in hospitality, are in the worst possible way misusing the permission they have received to do the job. In that sense, my colleague Radic, again, as someone who is an authentic representative of this type of service in the place where he lives, wanted to suggest that you accept this amendment. It is necessary that, in the service chain, all bear the responsibility, i.e. sanctions for non-compliance and non-compliance, first and foremost, of the categorisation obtained. In a certain period, some (of course, not all, it would be terrible if it were to happen) show that they no longer respect it, but for a time in a decent way do their job, or provide that service, and later it turns out that they no longer want to invest in it, that the workforce has stopped, that the service is not that type anymore. It was not necessary to strictly view this part of the amendment where it is said – in line with the concerns and good business practices. You may have been distracted by this formulation, and in response to the Government, it says that it is a term used mainly in the Chamber of Commerce, or in some other forums, but it is indeed so. If someone cultivates a good business custom and adheres to it, there is no concern that they will come under the influence of this member of the law, or if this amendment, proposed by counterpart Zlatko Radic, is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15035	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15036	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry that I was not in a position last week to actively participate in the work and discussion of this tourism law. Last week I was in the Ruška area, and I am from there carrying a series of messages both for the Minister and for the Government, about the tourism law and for the problems in tourism, which are particularly expressed in the municipality of Raška, and about Kopalnik. For this very reason, it is necessary that the amendment submitted by my colleague Zlatko Radic to the government's 102nd representative look again and think – but the government's representative does not listen to MPs, chats with his associates, and this is not nice – so that this amendment is adopted. Since he is not paying attention, I am addressing my fellow Members of the People and I hope to persuade them to accept this amendment. The problems which are, for example, extremely expressed in Kopalnik refer to the "Genexa" monopoly, of course, to the fact that "Geneksom" is the owner of Miskovic, the information of which is spoken by citizens in the municipality, who wintered everything in "Geneks" apartments, and also mention Dinkic and Markovic and Velju Ilic. Of course, I don't think all these people should be staying in the Bath, but according to what they say in Raška, it doesn't seem like they were just regular citizens there, so I guess that's normal. The problem of the Genexa monopoly is particularly expressed because of the action that is now current, which is the categorization of tourist facilities in Kopalnik. Tourist inspection (I guess the minister knows it, and if he doesn't know it, I'm telling him now) there's no way he's getting into Genex's facilities, there's no way he's getting into some private villas. This is a problem that is reflected in the fact that no residence tax is charged, that the Raske Tourist Organisation does not receive money from that tax, that the Assembly of the Municipality has no influence whatsoever. Because instead of the Municipality Assembly having free building plots, it does "Genex"; believe it or not, "Genex" sells parcels across the Kopalnik. That's where it's built without a building permit. Everything that was said when the government shift took place in 2000, so they were full of newspapers about what was going on in Kopalnik, believe that the game is compared to what is happening now, at least according to what I have learned from the people of Raška, from the employees of Raška Tourist Organization, in SO Raška. I was interested in one fact, they say, it began to build a wire to the village of Tresca. Of course, everyone thought it was really good, and now they think it's good for the development of tourism in Kopalnik. They were very surprised that without any plan, without any project, on the basis of an internal agreement, construction and cableways extended to the house of Miroljub Labus on the Kopalnik. That's why the people of the Raška region and the Raška municipality expect, they say, a lot of this new law, but, as things stand, and given my knowledge that the amendments of the SRS are largely not accepted, I have to tell them that they can't expect too much. The law changes, but unfortunately, the circumstances do not change, it will continue to manage several rich people on the Kopalnik, and the Raška municipality and the Raška Tourist Organisation, as things stand, will not benefit some of that. That's why, dear colleagues, I urge you once again to think about it and ask around. It is a fact that Raška has no MP, city, municipality of Raška, but we have colleagues from surrounding municipalities and you can certainly check everything I tell you. Well, you know that we Serbian radicals are always telling the truth, and in the name of that truth, I urge you to accept this amendment and other amendments to the SRS, if you truly want to correct the situation in the tourism cloud, because that is a branch that could significantly help Serbia and recover economically.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15037	I thank Mrs. Radetti. The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic. I saw you, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Savik called before you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 102. My colleague Zlatko Radic's proposal for a tourism law justifiably wants to complete something that is not complete, which is such a proposal for a tourism law, where it does not specify when the Ministry can reduce or subtract an existing category of a specific catering facility. Since we know that hospitality is an integral part of tourism, then it is quite clear that the catering facilities are precisely dividing this categorization into those of high quality and those of less quality. Of course, in order for a catering facility to differ by the category it owns, it must also vary by the quality of its services, the quality of accommodation, the quality of food and drink, the purity and beauty, both interior and exterior, and, of course, the price of its services. This last one again means that the categories of catering facilities share guests on those with a shallow and deeper pocket, so whoever can and loves it, go ahead. This proposed position 4 on Article 102 of this proposal only determines when the ministry can reduce or subtract an existing category of catering facility. The second question is whether the ministry will realistically categorize objects, i.e. subtracting or reducing existing categories. I think that individuals, thanks to ties with unconscious ministers, will get irregular categories for their facilities, which many have bought for small money precisely with the help of the mechanics, that is, those same ministers. As an example, I can quote the Attending Company "Shumadi" from the Great Plan, which is privatized very cheaply, and thanks to the links both to some politicians and to the management of this company. These kinds of friendships are created with money, and this owner, as well as many across Serbia, has been assisted by crazy laws, such as the Law on Privatisation, the Labour Act. Thanks to this first mentioned owner, he received the Attending Company "Shumadi" very cheap, and thanks to the second, he managed to free himself from the work of the workers. This company, in addition to a few lower-ranking catering facilities, has two facilities on the Belgrade-Nish highway, one of which is ranked with two stars and is very well known both in Serbia and in most parts of Europe, and this is the Old Oak motel located on some 100km of the highway from Belgrade to Nis, more specifically near Markovac. I live in the Great Plan, so I know one of the former managers of this motel, who proudly told the guests that the Old Oak is not only a motel, but also the gate of the Shumadia, so by looking at it they can imagine all the beauty of the forest region. It's probably thanks to this very simple motel The Attending Company "Shumadi" was bought very favorably by the current owner. The owner will probably sell these less valuable objects in the next period, making a lot more money than he paid the entire company and, of course, will remain his Old Oak Motel with all its accompanying facilities practically free of charge. I'm saying this because there was a far better solution, which is that the current owner could have invested money in the arrangement of the restaurant in the Great Plana and turned it into a hotel that needed the Great Plan, to provide accommodation for tourists, which it would certainly be. This is a far better way to make money than by selling something that's free of charge, maltene as a gift. Of course, the workers of the Forests, including the municipalities of the Great Plan, have lost a lot with this kind of privatisation. And he lost tourism in the Municipality of the Great Plan. The workers of the Forest have, in truth, initiated a court dispute for the annulment of this crazy privatisation and hope for a favourable verdict for them, and I fear that the final outcome will be in the people's hands—whom harm and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15039	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15040	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order not to leave unsettled information that the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Ms. Verica Radeta, has said for a moment, to clarify this to the end, and it is about paveding the way to the House of Miroljub Labus. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Velija Ilic did it for humanitarian reasons, because Mr. Labus is a little bit of a pain in the leg. He had a bad leg when it was a sugar affair; his leg hurt when he was a "Knjiz", and now I hear his leg hurts again – he fell "Erikson" on his leg. Therefore, it is necessary to appreciate this investment that Mr. Velja Ilic did just like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Zlatko Radic, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 102, which reads: Article 102 adds Article 4 which reads: "If the catering facility for accommodation is in a period of validity of a category-setting act for the second time within two years, the sentence for the infringement referred to in Article 126, point 4 of this law, as well as for failure to respect good business practices and fears, the ministry may reduce or withdraw the category, for a period of three months to two years. "This means that someone who does not respect the basic rules of conduct in catering, if he has received the category, this country can take away or reduce the category, punish him in such a way and force the citizen to receive at least the services he pays when he comes to his facility, in the extent that the law itself and the category he receives. An explanation for why the amendment is not adopted – the amendment is not accepted because Article 99(4) requires the host to apply for a lower category of object if the required standards are removed. The lower category also means a change in prices, i.e. a reduction in the price of catering services in that facility. This means that we rely on the awareness and conscience of the caterer, that the moment the conditions of article 99 are obtained, he will immediately run to seek to reduce his category and thus reduce his income. Well, it won't be. I respect and respect all those who are honest, honorable caterers, all those who deal with this business, but there won't be anyone to do it. At least 30% of them won't leave safely. And what's going to happen? In Article 99(4), the inspector is obliged to punish him, etc. and write him up his applications. The inspector who comes to the catering facility, may also be there that 70% of the inspectors are honest, honest, correct and fair, but he'll get one of those 30%, so with good lamb, good wine and blue envelope certainly won't change his category. Why does the state, which is added to the amendment submitted by MP Zlatko Radic, not protect itself in this way? I think the amendment completes Article 102, allowing the state another kind of control and I believe that all MPs should vote in favour of this amendment and that this amendment should be adopted, that it should become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15041	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Zlatko Radic, who submitted to Article 102. This amendment seeks to complete all situations that may arise in relation to the determination of the category of catering facility, i.e. sanctioning the host for non-compliance with the prescribed standards. In the proposed amendment, paragraph 4, it is clear what Article 102 provides for. Proposal for a tourism law. If we have a situation that, for example, the caterer has been punished twice for two years for an infringement of Article 99, and it concerns deviations from the prescribed standards for a specific category of catering facility, specifically, a failure may occur to the catererer, perhaps a small matter caused by a technical factor, which may result in consequences, just as you stated in Article 99, as explained in the reasons for the refusal of the amendment, the classification of a lower category, or the removal from the register of categorized catering facilities. In this Article 102, there is no legal framework that would possibly properly consider such cases. If we look at why an act on determining categories of catering facilities ceases to apply, we will see that this situation is not foreseen. There are four reasons, and that is: if the period has expired, if the entity carrying out the catering work has changed, if the category of the catering facility is changed and if the host so requests. What do you want with this amendment? A host who, for the second time in two years, has been sentenced to a fine for an infringement in Article 99 may be reduced to a category and even taken away for a certain period. The amendment provides for it to be between three months and two years. This time sanctioning gives the host a chance in some way to improve the conditions of the facility for the period on which he is punished, to remove the deficiencies, or to repair the underlying and other means, if necessary, and to fully adjust his facility for work, and to obtain a category of catering facility. After the expiry of the time sentence, the caterer will likely look at his business mistakes and will have to adapt to the legal provisions, because it is, above all, in his interest. It's the easiest place to close down a bar, a shop, a bar, a motel, etc. It's for this government, as well as for the previous one, the easiest. It's normal to respect the law, but we need to understand that something unexpected happens once in a while, past the owner of the catering facility, which can easily cause complaints and complaints to the guests. It may occur that someone delivers broken foods to a restaurant, or a problem with heating, water, etc., which is a matter of technical nature. And, afterwards, without an amended Article 102 of the Serbian Radical Party amendment, if we stick to this law and Article 99(4), there is a lock on the door. At the Social Office of the State, you have new workers fired immediately, and the state is at risk because there is no more income from the tax of a closed catering facility. The adoption of this amendment would only clarify the position of the caterer for some such banal situations as may arise. If they happen again, then it should be done exactly as the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15043	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 109. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club to Article 109 is only one in a series of amendments submitted by the SRS Parliament Club, which refers to this matter. What exactly is this about? The state administration law clearly defined the ministry as a state administration body, and that the minister is an elder of that body and that the ministry, as a state administration body, can make such decisions. What's this about? Article 109 states: ′′The Minister in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health Affairs makes a regulation on sanitary-hygienic conditions, the way in which services are provided and the procedure and the way in which the category of accommodation facilities in the domestic work and the rural tourist households are determined again we come into a situation that depends on one man, because the ministry will remain, the minister is changing and all members of the ministry's employees when the change remains. The Ministry is an authority of the state administration. The minister is one, and I would not agree that, even if they were ministers, we would leave the possibility of making such important decisions. I think that in the voting day, everyone really needs to support this amendment, vote it out and put it into the law, so that the law doesn't be much better than it is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15045	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15046	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in defining the strategic development of tourism in Serbia, one of the main priorities for this and for each future government should be the development of rural tourism. We have talked a lot about that tourism, with its local and regional specificities, can largely change the structure of employment in some part of Serbia, especially in those parts of Serbia where the possibility is expressed because of the overall ethnos and, above all, the geographical climate to develop rural tourism, but we only have promises that represent a dead letter on paper and nothing further than that. As things now stand in terms of rural tourism in Serbia, both in Šumadija, or in an area that gravitates, or in villages around Lake Gružan, both in Kolubar, Mačvanski, Zlatibor County, so it is expressed everywhere because of the lack of concrete measures and, above all, the unexecuted categorisation of accommodation in rural households. Somewhere is done, but very bad. In particular, in the area of Šumadija, tourism inspector Branislav Dudic applied in 2001 to the then Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which was run by this minister from this failed Dossovska government, Milosavljevic, for categorisation in rural tourism in the area of the Shumadi County. It was his mission and his basic idea, because man, as an inspector for tourism, visited all existing and potential rural capacities. Now we're coming to the point that we're going back to one part to the beginning of the story. If we need a quality tourist product, and it concerns hotel accommodation, or a more modern kind of tourism, we need a lot of things, when it comes to rural tourism, we don't need anything we've talked about in the past few days, but only that the state, or the resolution ministry, takes a little more account of it. Because, despite the fact that our people survived the 78-day unfeeling bombing, all the research afterwards showed that, thank God, we have a healthy country and healthy air and healthy water and, above all, the hospitality of Serb hosts, who are willing to provide the best possible service in the rural area, or in rural tourism, and that these prices satisfy some medium standard of potential tourists, and above all those who did not have opportunities, growing up in urban areas or have no one in the country, to visit one of the rural households. If you were once able to go to one of those households that deals with rural tourism or to look at one of the TVs that looks like, through reporting, one day of staying a tourist there, you saw that every one of those guests who comes from any part of Serbia, if he goes from Novi Sad to Kolubar County or comes to Borac near Gruža, is delighted with what the hosts gave them. These people who have arranged for the reception of guests in the form of rural tourism are doing their best to make these guests feel the most comfortable there and to feel the authenticity of the place and to give them complete satisfaction. As well as how this request, submitted by Mr. Dudic, as inspector in charge of the Kragujevac area and these surrounding individual municipalities, has been gathering dust since 2001 at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, there is nothing to do with it, and in fact it is a matter of stimulating these people who have stayed in the country and have households that can accept tourists to do the job. We are specifically in Kragujevac, when it was a pre-election campaign and when the birth budget for 2005, it was potentiated, and it is done by Serbian radicals in all parts. Here, when it comes to some of the municipalities in Vojvodina, in particular the municipality of Kikinda, the president of Dr Branislav Blažić's municipality has also put an accent on the possibility of hunting and any other kind of tourism in his municipality. For this purpose, a certain amount of funds has been planned in the municipal budget, and the plan is to establish certain funds that will base the supply of a healthy product from the region, and it concerns healthy food that can be placed for tourists who are willing to come to that end and for export. I think that would be very important and that the state would have to worry a lot more about that. Because the connection of this production, some kind of manufacturer's design, with the acceptance of tourists is one concept that, within this general strategy for which certain groups and individuals have now been given a job to make a project, should be taken into account much more, because that is exactly what, in addition to Banjska tourism, the potential of Serbian tourism is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15047	Anyone else on this amendment? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15048	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 109. The proposal for a tourism law is the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party that ministers as a person cannot be in charge of such and similar affairs, but that the ministry as an institution must take care of it, because the ministry is an institution, the minister is not, the minister today is the one, tomorrow, and the ministry remains as a ministry. We therefore believe that the ministry should, in agreement with the Ministry of Health Affairs, lay down regulations on sanitary and hygiene conditions, the way in which services are provided and the procedure and the way in which the accommodation capacity category is determined in the domestic and rural tourist households. I really don't see any reason why this amendment should not be adopted, because if more attention and importance were given to the institutions of the system, which is not the case in Serbia today, then there would certainly be a lot less concrete problems, which I have to talk about again, because such messages are citizens from the Raška municipality. They say, ask the minister if he knows that Copalnik doesn't have drinking water, and it's not because "Geneks" owns the water line and now such a destroyed water line is trying to, literally, cove up the municipality. If there were more influences from the institutions of the system and if the institutions were respected, then certainly Dusan Mihajlovic or Aca Stefanovic, Batic's deputy, without a building permit, would not have built houses in Kopalnik, at the time they were in high state functions, when they were ministers. If the ministry had any real jurisdiction, then it would probably be someone in the ministry who remembered that, in the context of the development of tourism, it would account a little more for the approaches to our monasteries, so someone would think that at least the people would take the way to the Black River monastery in the Raška area. Of course, since these are all the exclusive responsibilities of the minister himself, they tend to take care of their personal interests and do not care about what the general interest is. When I answered to talk about this amendment, my colleague Markovic said the amendment was meaningful, and it certainly is meaningful, but it is therefore a pointless argument of the government which is why the amendment does not accept. It says – The government does not accept the amendment, because the provision of Article 71 is paragraph 1. The State Administration Act stipulates that regulations, orders and instructions shall be passed by a official who manages the authorities of the State Administration. Now I'm asking you - it's true, this is in the Law on State Administration, we are discussing the Law on State Administration today and you are reevaluating the solution again, and we were talking to you before that break for several days – what if in this law that we are going to start discussing today is not such a solution? You will then amend this law before it enters into force, or immediately upon entry into force. I think that really lawyers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have to take care, and above all, of the Legislative Committee, that in this assembly, this hall also sits on the good work of lawyers and don't embarrass the profession, don't make fools of us, because we know what we're talking about, we know perfectly what we're saying. The government has the right not to accept this amendment, the parliamentary majority also, but the government has to try, if it already gives some reason, to make this argument meaningful, not to be, at least, ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15049	The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment is in principle clear and Mrs. Radeta has explained it – the only dispute in all of this is that the minister as a person cannot be given so much authority, but to the institution, i.e. The Ministry. I think the whole story about this amendment and the other amendments in the earlier period is that we don't see the purpose of the law when in the ministry itself, as Mr. Minister said in his presentation, there's not enough money. It's a free story about tourism and development, about law-making and anything, if there's nothing we can do. Here is mentioned in this amendment rural tourism, but, as I said, there is no money. I think Mr. Secretary said, and he'll correct me if I'm wrong, that the total budget is about 70 million dinars, and that's 30 million for development. I come from Vršac municipality, we have applied to several tourism development competitions in the municipality and, among other things, one part of the municipality which connects about 300 or 400 people who would be employed through the development of rural tourism, which would connect with this domestic food, honey, milk and cheese and where there would be a lot of income from tourists coming on the side. That's probably impossible to do, even with some ministry's permission, and for reasons that there's not enough money, like we said. The Vršac municipality itself is relying on the municipality of the White Church, which is in an even worse position, and the only way out of the municipality would be to develop tourism, and it is also impossible to do it because there is no money. What I was about to say in this presentation is – if there is really some will for tourism to develop as a profitable branch around the world and Europe, it is necessary to find enough resources and only then to make a law on tourism that will have a purpose and which will be able to apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15051	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to Article 116. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Tourism in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to a part of the law that speaks of nautical tourism, about a young action that is in expansion, but immediately at the beginning, we face great problems when we talk about nautical activity or nautical tourism. I have submitted an amendment to Article 116 where Section 3 is added. If Articles 99, 101, 102 and 115 make clear that everything necessary for the adoption and determination of categories or specific categories is clearly defined, then I am of the opinion that, for the non-compliance with the provisions of the abovementioned members, it is indeed necessary in Article 116, which has two positions, to add the third position that I have defined with the amendment, and it reads: "If, in the object of nautical tourism, in the period of validity of the act on determining the category for the second time within two years, a penalty has been imposed within the meaning of this law", and the said Articles 99, 101, 102 and 115 of this Law, as well as because of non-compliance with good business practices and fears, the ministry may reduce or withdraw the category, for a period of three months to two years. "The explanation says it is good to specify in which cases the ministry can subtract the category. The precision is therefore good for both of them – and for those who provide services and for those who use services. The change in category is related to some irregularities in the very fact that if an existing category is taken away, that is why, I insist, it is necessary to specify exactly some things. In the case of one who's a potential service provider, and if he's committing some kind of violation, he'd probably pay attention to the already known punishment, so he'd be less likely to commit those violations. He'd know in advance that he would be taken away from the category, that it would be taken away in time from - to. I just think that precision would be fine. Some more delicate questions are raised regarding the Proposal for a Law on Tourism: which persons, with which qualifications and what experience are those who decide on acts and categorisation, who are they in general, whom they can complain about in order to exercise their rights, etc. Just because of what I've been talking about, there's something that needs to be made clear, so we don't get into a dilemma about who's asking to exercise his rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I claim that a bunch of people are in places in the resolution ministries, and there are more of them, related to this part of the law, who don't simply know how to direct someone who wants to invest on the right path, especially when it comes to water facilities for providing services in the part of nautical tourism. I'm telling you this from personal experience. You need to get a series of permits and projects to just start building a building, about this part of the law. I've had that experience for two years. I've been interested in investing in nautical tourism. I come from Apatino, a wealthy municipality, and believe that many interested simply gave up at the beginning. They asked me for some advice, because wherever they went, just no one had the expertise to explain to them where to go, what kind of permits to ask. If we want to develop that part of tourism and raise it to high branches, we need to simplify that part of administration and paperwork and speed it up. This way, as it is now, we won't really attract interested investors to invest in that part of nautical tourism, related to the bill. In order to obtain these permits, it is necessary to open a series of doors, one ministry, another ministry, and then move from the republican to the province's ministry, so that various companies that have been running water, locals, local administrations, and to collect these papers are required in today's conditions for two years. I'm telling you from personal experience. If that doesn't change, I don't think for this part of the bill that speaks of nautical action and tourism there's gonna be a lot of interested, especially foreign investors who want to invest in that part. The problems are present in this part of nautical tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15053	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. So, once again, I publicly urge that this amendment be considered. Take care of it for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15054	Unlike other specialised services in the field of tourism, such as hunting tourism, congressional, fair tourism, here the legislator of the law has given more attention to this area, but he did not, as counterpart Skrbic said, and he tried to correct it with his amendment to Article 116, as specified in what conditions and when one who has a license to perform these jobs could lose his license, or a work permit. A gap has been made in this area where it has been defined that the Ministry of Trade and Tourism with the Ministry of Transport will be closer to regulating the conditions under which permission to carry out this job can be obtained. But you know for a fact that some of the owners of the facilities that provide services in this kind of tourism have used their licenses in a variety of ways, especially because of the lack of respect for the given category, the time in which they can work. And with those (this has happened many times) who have organized various events in the field of nautical tourism, there has been boastiness, for the reasons that they have been protected by local powerful men and there are problems that Mr. Skrbić has been talking about, and what we have mentioned for the past few days. To ensure that some unit of local self-government, which is not in the context of the ruling structure, is identical to the one in power in the Republic, this coalition that was created, improved or improved the conditions for the development of nautical tourism has indeed been blocked, in particular by the mayor Bogdanovic, and those clicks of the authorities around him from the furniture primarily by the Democratic Party, as the problem is expressed in the Zemun municipality. We talked in the first hours of discussion about the bill's proposal in principle about that there are few marinas, or at least those arranged, in the Danube. It is necessary specifically in Zemun that it be arranged, because there is really a possibility that nautical tourism is developing, because of the proximity of the Great War Island and because of the Zemun Kei, in general because of natural beauty, because of the city itself. When an interested foreign investor appears, as appeared with the president of the municipality of Mrs Pop-Lazic (it is one Italian corporation), with a letter referring to the mayor of Belgrade, everything stops, because he has Belgrade municipalities, and especially those in which the radicals are in power, treats it as a city office, not a municipality in the right sense of words, which has one project and wants to develop it and promote nautical tourism. The same is true of counterpart Škrbić, with all others who know how many times they apply and come to the door of one, another ministry, because this is now famous for capital investments, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. How far does that lead us? To the unmistakable stories of individuals that no one will cooperate, especially from abroad, with radicals where they are in power, which is absolutely not true. Through this and through numerous other examples, it is seen that they want to cooperate, have concrete projects and that they know that the people who are the authorities at the level of local self-government are primarily honest, correct, high-moral people, who want to work with them, have a good team of experts around them, but are simply blocked because of that, according to counterpart Škrbic, paperwork, which is obstruction in the right sense of words. If this continues, and make sure that the Serbian radicals come to power on a republican level will never see whether this party or that party is in local self-government in power, but whether it respects the law and whether it has a project, then we are not getting anywhere. (President: Time. ) See only who are in most cases, when it comes to the attractiveness of the locations in the city of Belgrade, both on the move behind the hotel ′′Yugoslavija;" and in other parts, the owners of the club licenses, or abortions. We have nothing against people who regularly and in public competition get permission and opportunity to work, but lobbys were created, above all by the Democratic Party, who today are harassing the city of Belgrade; we also found it in Novi Sad, and it is a high degree of corruption, and in this area it is cut in the root. But in Belgrade, with such a mayor and such moves by his associates who do not want to see that some people, in particular in this case from the Zemun municipality, are looking for nothing in return, do not God, but want to create some project from which the municipality will benefit, are unable to do so. It's one of the concrete examples, and it's, unfortunately, a lot in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15055	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 117, which reads: "The ministry, in agreement with the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, prescribes minimum conditions for building, editing and equipment, as well as the procedure and method of determining the category of objects of nautical tourism. "I think it is of utmost importance that the ministry, not the minister, in agreement with the ministry responsible for traffic affairs, prescribes minimum conditions for building, editing and equipment, as well as the procedure and method of determining the category of objects of nautical tourism. This is a complex activity, with us only at the initial stage of development. It is extremely unserious what is of great potential for our country to leave to the agreement of two ministers, however familiar they are with this area. Nautical tourism is one of the most profitable branches in the world. The Danube region in Serbia itself, if it were to be put into operation, covers about 2,500km of waterway and nearly 5,000km of coast. A large number of translators should be built. These are architecturally designed urban ports where boaters can safely leave their vessel, freshen up and visit attractive places on land, of course spending their money. Serbia currently lacks enough such places, or they are mostly improvisation, in larger cities. It is known that the Danube flow through our country, so-called. The Danube has not yet been introduced on any major nautical map, and the waterways on this part have not even been drawn on the maps used for the needs of the UN. Your ministry not only needs to co-operate with other ministries in the Serbian government on the organisation of nautical tourism in Serbia, but must also be involved in a regional project that brings together countries in the Middle Danube, Hungary, Serbia and Romania. For the development of this, for now pioneering, project in Serbia needs time measured for decades, as well as huge resources. However, the advantage in implementing such programmes is that it can be started from small projects that later on draw each other together and therefore do not require large investment ventures. But the problem is, as MP Skrbic said in the previous amendment, a complicated system of issuing permits to interested entities who want to invest in this kind of tourism. I therefore call on all MPs of the National Assembly to support this amendment to Article 117 in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15057	Here you are, MP Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully support the amendment to Article 117. A proposal for a tourism law, submitted by MP Radisa Ilic in front of the SRS parliamentary group. With this amendment to Article 117, Mr Ilic proposes – the tourism ministry responsible for the affairs of tourism, in agreement with the ministry responsible for traffic affairs, prescribes minimum conditions for building, editing and equipment, as well as the procedure and method of determining the category of objects of nautical tourism. Provision of Article 117 The proposal for a tourism law provides that the minimum is determined by ministers as individuals. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that this is not just, and that this will happen what has happened many times – abuse by ministers and individuals. In order not to be abused by ministers and individuals, I propose that the MPs vote for this amendment to Radisa Ilic in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15059	Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this is one in a series of amendments that we have submitted to the law, which relate to the Minister-Secretary's relationship. An explanation of why the amendment of Parliamentarian Radisa Ilic is not adopted says: "Amendment is not accepted, because the provision of Article 71 is paragraph 1. The State Administration Act... "and so on. One of the laws in this session will be the State Administration Act. What happens if we adopt a law on state administration, where will the ministry be returned to the intelligence and ministry of organs, not the minister? Then will we have to make an amendment to this law that we are adopting today? The second thing, if the minister had adopted amendments to the Serbian Radical Party MPs, today should be, for example, in Zemun at a meeting with an Italian delegation that intends to build a marina in Zemun. Instead, a federal foreign minister will appear there. Instead, some other ministers will appear, who, realistically speaking, are not there, and the tourism minister, whose jurisdiction this is, will not be at the meeting today. It is an incredibly high-quality and large project, which will absolutely cost the state of Serbia nothing, as the foreign investor will invest a lot. It is about building an object that is not in Serbia, because other than that port in Belgrade, which has two connections to boating, including tourist ships, down at the Captain's, we do not have any marinas equipped, arranged, arranged in Serbia's territory. Tourists engaged in nautical tourism are higher class and financially very capable and ready to pay very well for certain tourist services. A complete accompanying infrastructure that would cover that marina would also be built within the marina. Huge funds passing through the Danube go all the way to the Black Sea, which could stay in Serbia and could be invested in Serbia's development, thus leaving. On the other hand, we have a couple of wild so-called. The marina on the logs, on the barrels, on the boards, where boat owners tie boats and pay for it fat. Instead of the minister thinking about it, he could very simply solve the problem, adopt these amendments and then think about the job he has.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15061	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 120th amendment was submitted by MPSreto Peric. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 120, paragraph 2, point 8, which is a member who regulates the supervision of the implementation of this law. It is known that the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, and the inspection of mostly tourist inspectors, with inspectors from the Ministry of Health, traffic inspectors and inspectors from the Ministry of Finance in this part of the job. Article 120 of Section 2 of point 8 of this Act reads - a tourist inspector has the following powers: to temporarily prohibit the exercise of activity by a legal person, an entrepreneur, or a natural person in cases where a tourist inspector is prevented from performing surveillance tasks. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I suggested that the following should be added – when, within eight days of the day of the finding of the reasons that prevent the conduct of the surveillance tasks are not removed by the order of the inspector and allow the smooth conduct of surveillance tasks, the tourist inspector is authorised to prohibit the temporary exercise of that activity in these cases. At the time of the rejection of this amendment, the Government stated in its statement that this was unnecessary and that it was regulated by the State Administration Act, Article 29; under that law, that is, by that Member, all legal persons, bodies, undertakings and institutions are obliged to provide the inspectors with all the documents required. Many other laws stipulate that something must not be done, that is, forbidden, and yet that is the case. I wanted to supplement this, or explain the authority of the tourist inspectors. Minister, I could give you a suggestion, to your ministry, or to a tourist inspection, that they're threatening your resignations, and that's exactly what faces they are. Although it has been introduced to control the work of tourist inspectors and it is assessed, it will not be one of the criteria, and there will be no social status of these tourist inspectors, but something else is coming up. At this point, I won't tell you which district it's done in. However, if you find that interesting, I can tell you what it is. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law will surely be passed. I have a feeling that if a ministry, or government, were to propose a law to say -- from today on, the rivers will run uphill, a certain number of MPs would not comment at all, and I would say that this is a good law and that we are entering the European Community safely and that, after the law is passed, a large number of people will be employed in Serbia. So there's no criticism, nothing would be read. In order for this law to be applicable, many things have to be done. I come from an alphabetic region, in Drina, where there are many interesting tourist destinations. One of his colleagues was at the time of the 200th anniversary of the First Serbian uprising and commented on this speaker that it was almost impossible to get there. There is little co-operation with other ministries, i.e. the government is working very little for the benefit of Serbia's citizens tomorrow. Laws can be passed, but they will not change the lives of Serbian citizens unless the government is more effective in taking other measures to create environments and conditions for better privatisation, for more work. We can make a decision that our country is called and otherwise, as Mr. Alexander Vukic said, in the evening you start a diary by representing us as Switzerland. If we were even called Switzerland, meaning by changing the name, nothing would mean anything to the citizens of Serbia, they would not live any better. The only thing more to do is start economic activities. Thus, the tourism area, or potentials in Serbia, will certainly be more used. Now Serbian citizens are barely surviving, and their nearest tourist destinations are far away and cannot reach them, both because of bad roads and because of their own standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15063	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know that the tourist inspection was formed five years ago. I now hear from my colleague Sreta Perić (and it is a reliable radical source, as it always is) that in the area where he lives, which is Ljubovija, according to the knowledge he has, there is an indication that some tourist inspectors will be fired. If you have dedicated yourself to, since the Minister, this business branch, since you are joined by the ministries, you can see, because some of the market inspectors have started to do this job, tourist inspections, some of the people employed by the government's competition, that the lack of tourist inspectors is really present in Serbia. We have been talking here for days about how one system law should be passed, and some specific areas, or specialised branches of tourism, have been defined. Just before I spoke about rural tourism, I said it took much more attention to devote. It is generally present that tourist inspectors, in the number that now exists in Serbia's districts, cannot sometimes physically arrive to do the job that awaits them. I'm not saying everyone, it's present where, say, territory is large, there's a small number of inspectors or one man is due today in three or four municipalities by various reports. You wanted this law, not accepting any of the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, to increase discipline in the area of providing tourism, catering and all other services. If that is the case, and if Article 120, on which the amendment was submitted, i.e. point 8), colleague Sreto Peric, determines what those offences are and what all the tourist inspectors can find on the scene, then you see, by all these points, that he should consider what a violation is, which is not a simple job at all. Sometimes only one man should do it on several occasions during the day. If there is already a problem to be seen and to see that the law has been drastically broken in terms of non-compliance with the license, non-compliance with the category, a certain other economic offense punishable by this law, it still needs to be done at point 8), and Mr. Sreto Peric has suggested this to you, that for some time the service provider should remove the problem. Sometimes he can be benign, as doctors would say, of nature, and that he's created for some reason that doesn't have to be a reason to close that facility. People are being held for a single fiscal account, allegedly unissued, for a single feathered bakery. Two bakeries closed in Arangelovac in one day. We're not saying that tax laws, dark jobs should not be respected, but it's always the easiest thing to hit on someone who's the least profitable and who has a hard time supporting himself and some family member or someone he's hired there. Here I come to a specific question for you, Mr. Minister, for two days, two groups have been schnappling on the plain mountain. It is a place where for 14 years some people, who are the leaders of lamb and pig brigades, have been drinking and eating from morning till night, with the establishment of temporary facilities that serve that purpose. Were you there with one of these two groups, and you belong to this other one, Draskovic, who left a day later, and so he showed us what kind of Europe as foreign minister leads us to, and I'm not going to go into it, it's your university program if you used it or didn't. I really want to know if you sent tourists inspectors to Ravna Gora and whether the tax authorities sent tax inspectors to see if there are any fiscal accounts there. If you were able to close Serbian bakeries for a single feather or one muffin, then I am truly curious whether there were tax and tourist inspectors on the plain to see what was going on there, what was the traffic of money and whether the participants of these phantom gatherings met with citizens, or according to the state of their obligation as set out in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15065	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 124th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 125th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15066	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 125. The proposal for a tourism law provides for a fine of between five and fifty thousand dinars for a violation of a fine by a natural person: if it provides services to a tourist guide, a local tourist guide or a tourist animator, and does not meet the prescribed conditions; if it issues houses, apartments, apartments and rooms which are not categorized or do not comply with the prescribed sanitary and hygiene conditions under this law; if it provides food services to persons who do not provide accommodation services; if it issues houses, apartments, apartments and rooms contrary to the provisions of this law and if it does not deliver contracts to the competent authority referred to in Article 106(2) of this Act. So, for these violations, a fine of between five and fifty thousand dinars is foreseen. I'm asking the government's representative if it wouldn't be better if the work of the departments was organised so that maltenes like this shouldn't even come. If the inspection, which my colleagues were talking about earlier, were to do their job in accordance with the law, if it wasn't for the dismissal of tourist inspectors, the real need to see if there was any need for more of these people to work, to work in accordance with the law, then there would certainly be no need for such drastic punishments. Because the logical question arises – how much financial punishment will a tourist inspector pay to get past all these cases, all these violations provided for in Article 125. A bill of this law? But here's something else, not only in this law, but in the same way. The impression is that the Serbian government is paying the utmost attention to the very criminal provisions of all the laws that are being passed in this parliament. Of course, we know that everything provided for by law must be sanctioned in some way. Citizens, both natural and legal persons, must respect the law, and in order to comply with the law, criminal provisions are also necessary, and all of this is in principle not controversial, but it is disputed that in all the laws that we have adopted here so far, you are dramatically increasing fines. It's nice of you to think about budgeting, but it would be much nicer to think about Serbian citizens, to think about the conditions in which Serbian citizens live, about salaries, about pensions. Where will such drastic punishments be paid? Even if there's a misdemeanor, if someone commits some of these kind of intended offenses, where will he pay 50 grand fine? And these ranges of yours from five to fifty thousand, what do they mean? Of course, it means opening up the possibility of abuse. When you give such a wide range to a tourist inspector, you warn him that he can agree whether to give someone a fine of 5,000 or 50,000 dinars. Of course, it opens up the possibility of abuse, corruption, and we probably don't bring the law to that end, but rather, that all these negativeities that have existed so far in this society and the legal system will slowly begin to be eliminated. Of course, the government isn't interested and we know it. That is why we are at least trying to protect the citizens of Serbia by proposing that, when it comes to penalties, at least reduce those penalties for offense. In particular, in this case, Petar Jojic suggested, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that all of these violations I had just read would be fined by a fine of 5 to 30,000 dinars for the offences committed. Regardless of what is involved in providing certain tourist services, then perhaps someone may think that someone involved in this business has money for such fines, believe that the fine of 50,000 dinars is drastic and that few can pay it today in Serbia. Whoever can pay a fine for any crime of fifty thousand dinars, these are small jobs for him, not those jobs. I especially stress - the range of ten times from the lowest to the highest penalty is unacceptable. We propose, therefore, that this amendment be adopted, that the range in punishment be reduced and that the ceiling for the offence be reduced from 50,000 to 30,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15067	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15068	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the promoter believes that dragon, drastic punishments will improve quality, service, improve the whole system, I think he's wrong. A team before, for example, Mladjan Dinkic, as minister, had in his portfolio ordered his inspectors to punish between 10 and 100 thousand, from five to fifty thousand to always charge the highest penalty. National MP Petar Jojic submitted an amendment to article 125 requiring a reduction in fines. In fact, a member of the law is scheduled from five to fifty thousand, and Mr. Petar Jojic is asking that it be between five and thirty thousand. What's this about? Article 125 says - a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars will punish a natural person for the violation of the service provided by a tourist guide, a local tourist guide or a tourist animator, and does not meet the prescribed conditions laid down in Article 70(1) of Article 74(2) and Article 77 of this Law. Is it more important for tourists to be provided with all the facilities that are otherwise scheduled for the tour and with whom they have paid for the trip were familiar or is it important that the tourist guide, local tourist guide or tourist animator have a prescribed school for it? Of course, the tourist agencies, since it is primarily about tourist agencies, see that they employ a qualified staff and generally have such a fit, except for those tourist agencies that are formed after the ′′buldozer of the revolution, and some of them are very correct and good at treating the users of services. But we also have tourist agencies that are scrambling back-to-back. I've been talking in previous exhibitions, back a few days, since we've been discussing this law, that a tourist group could have gone to Turkey and that there's no accommodation, no food, no nothing, and she's paid up front. It can happen that a tourist guide skips certain contents, because he's gone a hundred times, so it doesn't mean anything to him to go around, for example. Djurdje's pillars or some monastery, and tourists paid in that shift, in that tourist trip and in that content. However, the fine between five and 50,000 is drastic, dragonous and the only reason for such drastic penalties is to charge the budget. I think if you want to run the country, and I see that you will, then you must also be able to make money in another way, not by taking off the coat of arms of the citizens of Serbia, even those who have, besides the basic one, to eat and train, steam and go somewhere on a tourist trip. It's been less and less since you've been in power since 2000; I don't make a drastic difference between 2003 and 2003, because the furniture is the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15069	Anyone else on this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group on Article 125. The amendment's proposal for a tourism law was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, and this amendment required that the fine, prescribed in this article from 5,000 to 50,000 for a natural person, be reduced to between 5,000 and 30,000 dinars. We have heard from colleagues who have previously explained this amendment the reasons why it is necessary to do so. First because, as in some of the laws previously found in the congregation procedure, and here the range of penalties given is extremely large, even ten times the difference between minimum and maximum penalties prescribed, and we all know very well that in application this can bring extremely great opportunities for abuse and that in principle this penalty will be very often expressed in the smallest amount, and that the difference will most likely end in the pockets of tourist inspectors. What is also very important whenever any law prescribes any punishment is not just the amount, that is, the maximum range that you can predict. It is much more important, and for those who will eventually be able to commit some offence and for those who charge you, that there is certainty that a certain penalty will be charged, rather than that some amount, which may be small, may be large, but the likelihood that this amount will ever be charged is extremely small. That's why I'd like to call the minister first... Mr. Minister, I apologize, if you could pay attention. First, we need to see if tourist inspectors have ever charged any fines in the previous period. If they were charged, we need to see how many penalties were charged, whether any effect was achieved by such a means of punishment, and to see in which range these penalties were moving, whether it was closer to the minimum, which is certain that it was, whether it was closer to the maximum, and then, based on these previous experiences, we make a certain compromise here and a certain range at the height of this penalty. What is also very easy to see, is that there is a certain disproportionateity between the penalties provided for in Article 125 and the penalties provided for in the next article, in Article 126, because there are practically penalties provided for in a violation committed by a legal person, up to 10,000 dinars are envisaged, and then it's really very strange how you predicted that a person's punishment goes up to 50,000. It's amazing, because it's really logical to assume that legal persons have much more economic power than the natural person they're going to be dealing with, as you say here, with the services of a tourist guide or a tourist animator. Well, do you think anyone in the local community could possibly take away a tour of five or ten tourists to charge a daily fee greater than a thousand dinars? I certainly don't think so. Then it is completely inappropriate for such persons, who work to provide themselves and their family with a naked existence, to prescribe such dragon penalties, and for legal persons to be fined up to 10,000 dinars, and eventually, eventually, it is said, at the end of Article 126, that there is a fine in the legal face of two thousand dinars. Why this disproportionately prescribed punishment, then, is 25 times more likely to be a punishment for a natural person who deals with the services of a local tourist guide than it is for a legal person, or for a responsible person in a legal person. I urge you once again, for indeed the most good reasons, to consider this amendment well. It will not necessarily affect the law, but I certainly think this is a solution proposed by the Serbian Radical Party far more appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15071	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 126. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 126. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment to this law and has the same purpose as the amendment... (President: I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, it's not the last amendment, but everything's fine. Here you go. ) The last meaningful amendment, only the MPs of the SRS submit meaningful amendments, and its purpose is the same as the amendment to Article 125, therefore, the height of the sentence. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has submitted an amendment to reduce the fines of 10,000 dinars to 5,000 dinars in article 126. The explanation given why the amendment is not adopted says: "Amendment is not accepted. By adopting amendment 12, the fine on the spot was replaced with a fine for the offence. ′′ This is another amendment by the Serbian Radical Party MPs that you have put behind the amendments of other parliamentary groups whose amendments, ministers, have been adopted and I do not think it is correct, because if it had been the first debate, then for a vote, perhaps this amendment would have passed before the amendments tabled by the SPP MPs. What happens after this argument loses all meaning, if in the day of voting the MPs adopt the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic? What exactly is this about? Why would a fine of 10,000 be? It says – a fine of 10,000 dinars on the spot will be punishable for a violation of a legal person and entrepreneur if: the service does not make the terms and conditions of travel available to the user and the programme of travel in writing. The conditions will be satisfactory, the weather will be nice, the road will be paved, and what if Velja Ilic did not finish the trip, because he had to go pave the way for this road on the flat mountain, so part did not end. Or, he says, do not report a tourist trip to the competent department of tourist inspection; unless the competent authority of local self-government has carried out on the seasonal business of the catering facility. I guess that's why the inspection exists, and it reports local self-government that the ship will only use the flight marina, if there is one, and provide catering services, or tourist services. Just a moment, another point, so – in the business of the tourist agency, the catering facility does not hold an entry act in the register, and in the categorized catering facility and object of nautical tourism the act of determining the category; at the entrance to the catering facility or object of nautical tourism does not highlight the prescribed marking of the type and category of object; at the entrance to the business of the tourist agency or catering facility does not highlight the schedule of working time and so on. All of these are violations that, in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, should be sanctioned, but certainly no penalty of 10,000 dinars; for three times today, the inspector will come to him and everything he has earned today will go to only that penalty. I believe that the high penalties of the budget cannot be filled and that it is high time that little about the standard of citizens and the conditions of work, which we are discussing today, is thought of in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15073	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15074	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the Proposer – the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, I would like to thank all of you for this debate, for the amendments and for the many proposals that have been made here and which, independently of the law, can be guidelines for the work of the Ministry. The fact that we've been working for seven days and this fourth working day shows interest in this matter, shows its importance and importance, and thus confirms that this law was necessary. I'll take a relatively short look at some of the remarks, some suggestions, initiatives, and I'll comment on them this time. First of all, one of the initial criticisms was that there is no concept of tourism development and I want to assure you that it is not true. First, we define the legislative activity that will be followed by the law on public ski resorts and the law on spas and at least 12 sublegislative acts to be passed by the end of the year after the adoption of this law. Then, we have stimulating assets that are slowly increasing and gaining importance. Also, a number of activities are being undertaken to promote tourism in the country and the world. This week we sign a strategy for tourism development, step up activities to attract investment in tourism, and in this sense some concrete activities are already taking place in the ministry, and, of course, very intensive co-operation with the tourism economy. Basic criticisms were related to the Tourism Development Fund. I hope that in the coming years the Fund will justify its existence and, regardless of the well-intentioned or maliciousness of criticism, it is necessary for this country to develop tourism. I would highlight some of the basic advantages of this law: there are modern solutions, integrated tourism products are arranged, tourist compensation and a tourism development fund is introduced, double prices are sanctioned, which used to be a common practice, the responsibility of tourist agencies and the quality of services in this area is increased, defined and governed by increasingly important services in tourism. As for some of the remarks we have heard today, which are related to a misdemeanor or to the dismissal of tourist inspectors, only briefly – the infringement procedure is in line with the Law on Infringements, it will be brought by the courts. When it comes to firing tourist inspectors, I can say that more than 10 tourist inspectors have been admitted for these years and a few days, so we have taken care of the filling of vacant places and the need for more tourist inspectors. There are also certain weaknesses in tourism that are not the result of this ministry's work or are not just the result of the ministry's work, which are partly inherited and objective: slowness in hotel privatisation, insufficient investment in tourism, insufficient incentives, partly poor image of the country, which is significantly improved, insufficient quality accommodation capacity and lack of certain institutions, where I point out firstly the lack of congress office. I want to remind you of some of the activities that the Ministry has undertaken and some of the initiatives that are under way. Together with Serbia's Tourist Organisation, therefore, activities are under way regarding a new brand of tourism and a new slogan that will play an important role in the country's international promotion, not only in terms of tourism. There's a whole series of activities to attract investment. We will form a joint committee with the Privatisation Agency, whose task will be to develop a hotel privatisation strategy, mainly in Belgrade. We launched an initiative by the Ministry of Finance to get rid of the value added tax of the agency involved in the arrival of foreign tourists. This year they are scheduled to start and create tourist signalling throughout Serbia, and the preparatory project is under way. We also hope that in 2006, we will have a congress office that will be an important institution in the development of our tourism. We have started the process of specialising tourism offers across regions across Serbia; we have accepted a number of international initiatives, among which the most significant one is related to the Danube Tourist Commission. Already around 9.30 today, we had a meeting with the Director of the Republic Statistics Institute to start a project of making satellite accounts in tourism as an important part of the reform of statistical reports in tourism. We do, and we will have a series of meetings with the Ministry of Capital Investment in order to arrange the infrastructure and repair the state of the roads to our most significant tourist destinations. We also launched some initiatives and already had a meeting with the Minister of Education and related to improving the organisation of student excursions. And, finally, we have launched a whole series of initiatives to invest and edit the Old Mountains, Divchibar, Golia, of course, the Kopalnik and Tara. On the basis of all this, I thank all the MPs and suggest that you vote for this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15075	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. I also thank the representatives of the Belgrade Tourist Organisation who followed this debate. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to the Rules of Procedure, I'm taking a break until 3:30, when we'll continue with the next agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15076	I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert the cards. Since we've established a quorum and we have enough MPs to keep working. We are moving to a joint principled search of the 11th and 12th points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The mandated representatives for this agenda item, i.e. for these two agenda points, are the Serbian Radical Party – Zoran Krasic, the Democratic Party of Serbia – Jovan Palalic and the Democratic Party – Gordana Comic. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPO MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP – 5 minutes and 89 seconds. In that case, the SPO doesn't have 21 minutes, so I ask that it be corrected, because four MPs are less than 16 minutes away. I ask the service to correct the time to discuss the Serbian Renewal Movement and New Serbia, because this is not the right time. I am opening a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on government and a proposal for a law on state administration. Does the proposing official, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15077	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you today two laws on a united debate, so the government law and the state administration law. The passing of these laws creates normative assumptions for the launch of reforms in the area of the executive government, at least that part of the executive authority, which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is the institution of the government. These two laws, which regulate this area, the government and the state administration, fall within the area of the government's organisation, among the oldest regulations in our legal system. One and the other laws were passed immediately after the adoption of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Government Act in early 1991, and the State Administration Act a year later in 1992. The aim of the legislative changes in one and other areas of the executive authority is to make certain things clearer, that those things, those provisions and those institutes that have so far proven to be inappropriate adjustments to the needs of practice and that, possibly some legal gaps, which have been observed in both areas, are properly removed. As far as the government law is concerned, this is a law on the government's institution as the holder of the executive government, not a law on this or any other government. I therefore expect that during the assembly debate you will take care of each of these institutes and thus propose a possible repair of them. In short, as far as the government law is concerned, I will only draw attention to two things: firstly, it is a fact that it has been significantly changed in order to make it clearer; secondly, it fills the legal gaps in the relations between the Assembly and the Government as holders of the executive authority. The issue so far has not been covered by the current Law on Government, but above all by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by the sublegal act of this particular body, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has been shown in practice that many issues that political life imposes do not have a valid legislative answer. This law in this area deals in detail with the government's composition, states that each government is made up of the president and a certain number of vice-presidents, at least one, and at most as much as any government considers necessary for the best possible functioning. It's made up of ministers, and two categories of ministers can exist. One is the resolute ministers, who take care of the area of the state administration whose leadership as members of the government is set up, and the other are so-called. Ministers without portfolios, which we had in practice in some period in the mid-90s, consisting of some other previous governments. Also, this proposal regulates the government's election issue because of the need to remove numerous gaps, which even in this mandate we had asked the Serbian Parliament, and we did not have valid legislative answers to these questions. Furthermore, it regulates one issue that has so far been completely without a legal answer, which is the question of the government's authority in resignation, at the time when the government ceases its mandate for any reason, resignation or resolution. Then, the two Constitutions provided for by the Institute, which did not have adequate legal developments in our system, which are requirements for a vote of no confidence, on the one hand, and trust with the Government, on the other hand. Of course, there is also one issue that has so far been without a full legal response, which is a question of what is happening or what are the powers of the Prime Minister and Prime Minister after the fact that they have resigned and have a constitutional obligation to remain in office until the election of a new government, or a new cabinet member. Another question in this law that I want to point out to you, which is a completely different regulation of the issue of the government's internal organisation. The current General Secretariat and the Government's services have been significantly reformed and will be regulated differently. Something is being introduced which is what these needs are, and I think the previous governments, all of you sitting in those governments know it best. It works much more efficiently and professionally for government operators, i.e. The President and Vice-President of the Government, the possibility of the cabinet of the president, or vice-president, as well as the Council of the Prime Minister, is envisaged to have two councils for the two most important areas, which is a council for economic development and a council for state authorities and public services. As for the second law, the law on state administration, the adoption of this law begins to amend the legal framework that will enable the fundamental implementation of the state administration reform process in the Republic of Serbia. So far, the process has been designed through, last year, a state administration reform strategy, whose ultimate goal should be a much more efficient and economical state administration, which will be trained to be the bearer of economic and overall social and social development in Serbia. This law introduces a new legal framework for the start of reforms in this area. It's a system law in this area. Let me give you the briefest indication of the essence of some of the amendments made by this law, in relation to the current law that has been in force since 1992. As for the affairs of the state administration, some jobs are being held, but the authorities of the state administration will also receive some new jobs in the future. In terms of jobs, we highlight normative-legal affairs, therefore, regulation-making tasks; then, the resolution of administrative matters through the adoption of administrative acts; keeping records; issuing public documents on the basis of these records; performing administrative actions and administrative supervision, which significantly regulates this area differently. It is predicted that from the forms of administrative oversight that have existed so far, it remains only as the possibility of conducting inspection controls and that this very important issue is regulated, due to its importance, by a special law on inspection supervision. I would like to draw particular attention to the important news in this law, which is the fact that from the reform strategy of the state administration, which rests on some basic and widely accepted principles of the European administrative framework, two such principles are being developed through this law, which are the principles of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of state administration in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the adoption of this law will reduce the number of political officials that exist today in the state administration, all to two officials: the minister, who will be headed by the ministry, and the deputy minister, who will be named State Secretary in the future. All other officials, who today are political officials, exclusively change when changes are made to the government. In the future, they'll be so-called. Professional, or career officials, and at their posts, at these functions in the state administration, which are, in particular, the places of today's assistant minister, the secretary of the ministry, the head of the board of directors of the departments, will come solely on the basis of their professional qualifications and results in the work, based on the competitions and criteria set out by these competitions. By adopting this law and such a principle of depoliticalisation and professionalisation, we will finally put the Republic of Serbia in a position to abandon the principle of political belonging and loyalty in the selection of civil servants and their officials. Of course, that is one assumption, that in the future in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia we will have independent and, hopefully, highly competent civil servants. With some other laws, first of all, the adoption of soon and law on civil servants, but also through some other measures that the Government intends in the direction of professionalising civil servants to implement – which is, above all, the establishment of a national centre for the improvement of civil servants – we will hopefully get independent and high-level civil servants in our near future. In the end, just one more question to point out from this pay phone when it comes to the bill on state administration, which is the district's position. So far, you know, this issue has not been regulated, of course, by the Constitution, or by law, but by a sublaw of the 1992 government, by the government's regulation on how to conduct the affairs of ministries and special organisations outside their headquarters. Hence, there is a serious objection -- that the environments, as a form of deconcentration of government in Serbia, were simply hanging in the legal system. The law regulates, to the extent that the current constitutional framework allows, the position of the district. They are called administrative districts and represent the district centers of state administration. They will continue to be run by the county's chiefs, but will no longer be political officials, but will also be affected by this depolitical process and will exclusively be state officials, they will be elected for a period of five years, based on the competition. It will have what they do not have today, given the different position of the district and the head of the district, with its professional service, and will be responsible for its work. An important issue for the institutional integration of local self-government and central republican authorities is the fact that this relationship will be institutionalised through the district by introducing the county councils. As president, it will be made by the head of the district and by the citizens of the elected president of the local self-government units, so municipalities and cities from the territory of those districts. In order for this whole process of planned state administration reform, which was designed in the context of a widely accepted state administration reform strategy, to be rounded up, following these laws, we are expected to have some other laws in this area very quickly: the law on civil servants, which I mentioned, but also two procedural laws, very important for much faster, more efficient work of the state administration, and these are the law on general administrative procedure and the law on administrative disputes. Also, after the law on civil servants, in the second part of this year we are also being followed by the adoption of the law on salaries in state authorities. Finally, I must thank you for the very correct amendments you have made, whose content tells me that, regardless of the political orientation of the position, or opposition, there are a number of experienced politicians who have gone through the work of the government, both these previous and earlier ones. Most of these amendments were highly constructive and, regardless of the fact from which groups, opposition or positional MPs were submitted, we adopted a number of amendments. I express my willingness, at the end of this opening presentation, in the event that during this debate, another amendment is fully justified and in line with the widely accepted European principles of the functioning of the legislative authority, to make such amendments and to adopt them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15078	I thank the Minister, Dr Zoran Lonchar. Whether the representatives of the committees want a word; the Committee for Justice and Administration Jovan Palalić (no); the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic (no). Do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15079	This government, as before, has repeatedly amended the Government Act and, I think, once the State Administration Act. The SRS, as an opposition party, has not found it appropriate for the past four years to interfere with the job, as each government has the right to organise a state administration, organises ministries, as it considers it best to exercise power. When it comes to the adoption of a brand-new law, such as the situation with this agenda point where the debate on two draft laws was joined, the SRS had to be involved. We have submitted, I think, to the Bill on Government of Eight Amendments, and with the Bill on State Administration, I think, 20 and some amendments. Now I couldn't tell you what was adopted by the government, I probably didn't get a chance to see that opinion, I hope we're going to go over the debate and before we move on to the amendments to hear which amendments were adopted, so that we know that we can focus our discussion on these others. On behalf of the SRS, I must point out that we won't vote for these bill proposals for a few reasons, so I'll start for the first reason. We can't accept something that should be a systemic solution to the government's organisation if one law comes in principle to go from special to something that's general. Probably, they taught us that the rule comes from something general, which is principled, so it's later being elaborated and it comes to something special. In particular, we have interpreted these laws as a form of legalisation of the existing situation, which we have expressed doubt for three or four years whether this is in line with the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I get the impression that by adopting this bill, practically, this government prejudges future constitutional solutions in this area. In this way you conclude that a little order has been changed. It was likely first that constitutional norms should have developed a political-legal framework, and then, on the basis of this new constitutional basis, developed the concept. Because, let's go in order, if you look at the law on the state administration, the proposer has been at the crossroads twice, whether he's going to go to centralization, decentralisation or towards how you used some term here, the social administration, it seems to me. You're really out of line. You can't see what the concept is. It is good that, in the light of the draft law, you have provided parallel examples of France, Germany, etc., they have been given in principle and listed as rules and what is applicable in these countries. You see for yourself, depending on what I would say, the constitutional solution of the country in question varies and the principle of how the state administration is organised, how the state government is organised. The basic lack of these two draft laws is certainly contained in the fact that the promoter has found a constitutional basis. I get the impression you forgot about article 71. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He says, "Republic authorities, within the framework of the Constitution of established rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, establish policy, adopt and enforce laws, other regulations and general acts, do constitutional and judicial etc." There's a definition of something practically called power division. So, the Republic's body is a generic term for something that belongs to both the legislative and the executive and judicial areas. In the second position of this member, it is said – other authorities and organisations in the Republic of Serbia can be trusted etc. Of course, the logical link to this is that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which speaks of a consistent application of the principle of division of power, which is Article 9, where it is said: "The executive power belongs to the Government. "So it is clear that executive power belongs to the Government, etc. I think you've made a mistake in the concept, because the Constitution doesn't allow you to intervene like this, and you have a need to legalize both the agencies, and a completely different organization of the state administration that you're seeking. Where's the solution? The solution is certainly in the existing provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So these two laws must be absolutely on the scale with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am not going to be specific now because we have a lot of amendments, so on these amendments, we will try to give you a concrete indication of which provision is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the SRS has experience and as a party that participated in the executive government, we understand you somewhat why you went to that intersection and why you prejudged perhaps a future solution to the constitution when it comes to the environment. You've given one form here that's something that looks like an administrative and administrative interface between some levels of government. That's not good. It's not good because this solution is unspeakable. Immediately after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 1990, when it simply appeared that there was a need for something in between. Those were probably those unspeakable environments. He's right to be an introductor who says that something that is not an authority of the state government, and the county is not an authority of the state government, but an area where parts of the government's body are located, and can't be regulated differently. That is why this is not regulated by law, although according to Article 94, it would have to be regulated by law. Even in that concept, the district was not an organ of state government. In practice, there were completely different problems, even to the abuse and to the maximum politicisation and overemphasis of importance, the political importance of the district, not this administrative, administrative, or to tell the first-degree body of the state government that is closest to the citizens. All this stuff I'm saying doesn't touch an idea we call local self-government. We're not talking about it today, and it's a good thing we're not talking about it. I expected to make a quality distinction between what the authorities are, what other authorities, which, conditionally speaking, come forward on behalf of the Republic as a state. What are trusted business, where are public authority? In addition to all of this, for example, the concept of two-stage local self-government and the possibilities of finishing up, we today have a problem that there is no constitutional framework to work out all these concepts. And that's what burdens these two draft laws. So, these two bill proposals are conceptually unconceived, they're halfway across the road, between what the proposings are supposed to mean -- we have to respect the Constitution, but we also have to strive for something, and in this mixed concept, I see that you're not succumbing to that pressure called -- the advice of NGOs or government institutions, which are tasked with harmonising the rules for accession. It's just that reality has made you look a little bit different about this problem, and there's been a problem that you've found yourself in the middle of the road, not here, not there. It can't work in practice. In order for this concept, which you advocate, to function in practice, we have to change the so-called material laws. Furthermore, I must draw attention to you, we were a few months ago, when you passed the Ministry Act, it seems to me that it was the law, or the amendments and additions to that law, then you resorted to something that was simple - you confused two concepts: jurisdiction and a detour. It may be a distraction, especially a disturbance in the application of these two laws if they are adopted in the National Assembly, and especially if these amendments are not accepted, which you have well noticed are, first of all, the result of the accumulated experience, because there are probably 15 people here who have worked directly in the executive power, so they have been faced daily with what you are doing today and you are grasping your head. Furthermore, you have to bear in mind that the Republic of Serbia, however administratively divided, when I say -- administratively divided, I mean not only a territorial organisation that tends to local self-government, but rather a territorial division that tends to the state government, where the state fulfils its functions and procedures in accordance with the law, as a power. You didn't notice one thing. Serbia with this number of citizens, Serbia with these potentials, Serbia with such constitutional arrangements, Serbia with such provisions, the state of Serbia with such competences -- as far as it can interfere with the status of citizens, as far as it is concerned about certain matters. How much of the basic things of human life and economy are administrative things? It simply drives us to give priority to the centralised approach of the government. Why? For one simple reason, which is the principle in force in the central government, in the central government's authority, unless by the end of the sequences are implemented to every place where government is asked, in the meantime it gets side pressures, lateral shocks and the situation that the central government doesn't know what's going on far from Belgrade, by the system -- away from the eye, away from the heart. It is possible that both instructions and instructions and all that the authorities intend to implement in one area, is there a question of how to apply Article 5 of that law, how to act by the relevant authorities, how to detach the authority in a given territory, does not come there, and even worse, that no feedback comes about what the effects are. Because you're halfway there. You have not defined yourself for either central access or this autonomous approach. You advocate the concept that the ministry should do professional, strategic jobs, etc.; in some part to work, if I may say so, administrative affairs, to resolve individual rights and obligations, and in that conglomerate simply the state government was lost. She'll be divided. She'll be torn apart. Strategicly, he won't be able to think and he won't be able to work, because he's not equipped, because it was the task of institutes, development centres, institutions, etc. It is a lack of ministries. Yeah, it's not the lack of two or three years ago. That's a shortfall from before. The lack is also because of the award system in the state administration, probably, many personnel have found better places, better salaries, and thus the impoverished state administration in terms of staff and we now have a situation that our government is beheaded. That's what I have to tell you, because of these frequent changes in regulations and the adoption of provisions that can't be interpreted. They can't be interpreted, and then we have a situation where in one area, where two or three ministries are asked in some way by each ministry to give a different opinion, a different interpretation, so all of this has to end in the Supreme Court, where, ultimately, the administrative dispute has been detained until today, until you form courts for administrative disputes, and then there's a confusion. In this confusion, of course, there are calls, interpretations, brochures, publishing work. I also have to mention some ministerial assistants, where they allegedly explain it, explain how an appropriate member should be applied. You see, these things show how complicated it is to run a state administration. This way you do not come to an effective state administration, but you come to a state administration that will be halfway there and then anyone with the right to call the government and the competent ministry. He's right to call. Next, with our citizens, here we see and we have problems in the National Assembly, because how can we explain to a citizen that we are not wondering about any individual act of some ministry, or some inspectorate out there somewhere in some municipality? Citizens are monitoring the transmission and they believe 250 of the most powerful people in the Republic of Serbia are here. They're probably the most powerful in law making, but when it comes to law enforcement here, absolutely powerless people. It will be similar with the state administration in this concept of yours. Everyone will call the ministry, and the ministry will not be able to have any insight or knowledge of what was going on there. Of course, I've been using these 20 minutes to observe these two laws, without entering concrete solutions and concrete amendments. On the occasion of the amendment - we will try to explain to you what is seen specifically as a problem in the appropriate norm that you have proposed. What certainly deserves attention and must be said is - I do not understand your concept of cabinet at all. This concept is not clear to me at all - Serbia is a small country. Serbia has a small state administration, we don't need that. Furthermore, in the case of the State Administration Act, the principle remark must be, you see, Article 94. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, although there are many views in that member, seems to me to be quite clear, and you see - the affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries. And there's the state administration. Further -- within the ministry, an authority of the administration can be formed, but something closely related to the ministry as the authorities of the state administration is also special organisations in the area. Why am I telling you this in particular? While we were in government, we had this problem that there were special administrative organisations, which were not part of the ministry, but were directly subordinated to the government of the Republic of Serbia and then the ministry couldn't, or theoretically, have insight into what the administrative organisation was doing. To mention a concrete example, this is the Ministry of Finance and at the time the Republic Public Revenue Administration, where the Minister and Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration were in the same rank, where the Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration made solutions, which were precisely the right, administrative solutions, final administrative acts, against which the administrative dispute could be conducted. Later someone noticed that it was a lack, so the Republic Public Revenue Administration put it in the Ministry of Finance, and that's a good move, because that's how you see the whole. Someone would say today it was an act of centralization of the government. It probably is, but it was a necessary form of centralization of the government. You're in a better situation today, something's changed. Simply, there was this centralisation from 2001 to 2003, and later it broke up with agencies, some other institutions, and a kind of erosion began. But you're not answering our question, how could it be in the Constitution and how this could be in accordance with the Constitution. So in 2001, the fact of centralization is in line with the Constitution. In 2003, the process of atomising the state administration, decentralisation, is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And now one half solution, and one in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order to move into what you tried to do with these bill proposals, I am absolutely certain that the first change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is necessary. Since this change has not been made, we will, in view of the discussion on amendments, point to shortcomings and problems, both from the point of view of constitutionality and from the point of view of legality. I must tell you that when it comes to voting on these laws and these amendments, no one has the right to have in mind existing laws that we have given some material solutions. Why? Because these are two organisational-status laws that regulate government, the organisation of state authorities. Normal laws in this area inevitably cause changes in relevant material laws. It's the right way. This is the wrong way, and that's why at first I said whether we're going from general to individual or from the sea of individual things, which we're finally going to solve, we're building a universal principle, which is going to be rewritten in the Constitution later on. If that's your idea, she's really wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15080	The word has the mandated representative DS - Boris Tadic, MP Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the next 20 minutes, and in the context of a united debate on two important laws, the law on government and government law, I will try to quote to you the provisions of both laws to prove the argument on which we stand as a political club in this assembly. So the DS decided to vote against the law in this proposed text, both against the state administration law and against the government law, if it remains, as it remained on the committees, the debate on amendments submitted to the government law. First law on state administration. The lack of a number of our amendments to the state administration law consists of a very simple reason. The language in which this law is written is incorrigible. Whoever read it from the MPs in this congregation must see that this language is incomprehensible to anyone else, except perhaps for the one who wrote this bill, and when he was with himself, to read within himself. As evidence, I will give you an extreme example of Article 15 of the State Administration Act, paragraph 3, which reads: "The order orders or prohibits any conduct in a situation of general importance." So if you read the text of this law, this had to bother you. This is an extreme formulation. There is also a formulation, such as in Articles 71, 72, where the minister monitors constitutionality. That must bother you if you know what the minister is doing. And the whole text of the state administration law seems to us to be that there was a good intention, we have no doubt, and that the state administration reformed, and that it was modernised, and that it was depoliticized. But, of that good intention, there was no imagination, and there was nothing left to do with what this law was written with, and unfortunately there was no reading it by the members, nothing to do with what the minister here had to do with. It is the same text, incomprehensible, inadmissible, which is extremely intrusive in the work of the National Assembly, in the government law, in Articles 18 and 19. In his first proposal, he said that from the submission of the proposal to the non-trust vote, it cannot go less than three days or more than 15 days, and in article 19, he tells the National Assembly when he will vote on the government. This is, apart from being linguistically inadmissible, and status inadmissible, given that no other law, other than the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, can be determined when the Assembly will vote, within what time, in which way and how long the debate on government confidence will take. After these examples, truly extreme, linguistic, least of all, inconceivable, I will try, quoting less extreme members, but equally inadmissible in any bill, and so on this state administration law, to prove to you that we have a lot of good arguments to vote against this law, as is our decision. In the state administration law, every member has a marginal title, as we've been informed that it's good in law, okay, that's a style that can stand, and it doesn't bother. It's unnecessary to repeat, but if someone loves it, of course, that we won't be like a party, as long as every marginal title is written. Article 12 has its head - State administration affairs, the marginal title "Participation in government policy making", which states firstly that "state administration bodies participate in government policy-making by drawing up drafts of laws, other regulations and general acts for the government and proposing to the government a development strategy and other measures. "It cannot stand in any law that any serious assembly wants to implement in reforming its own state administration. What is further is Article 15, which I have already mentioned, where orders, rules and instructions are defined. The conceptual difference, whether it should stand in this law at all, but if the government is defined, at least stand in writing. This is the greatest lack of text of the Bill on State Administration. He's illiterate, vague, and then, consequently, he'll be inapplicable, whatever the government is. Article 16 speaks of what the minister can and cannot do, and that is another syndrome that is repeated from member to member. So you have two attitudes, so in one position he says what the minister can do, in that verb form, or what the minister does, and then one provision of what the minister doesn't do. The legislator should decide: either he will speak about what the minister can, leaving out provisions that he cannot, because it is in other laws anyway; or he will only write about what the minister cannot or the ministry in general. Article 16, entitled – Restrictions in the adoption of regulations, reads: "Ministers and special organisations can only adopt regulations if they are explicitly authorised by the law or by the rule of law of government. "So in the second position, it says that "ministers and special organisations cannot impose their powers and responsibilities on others, nor establish the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons that have not already been established by law. "It cannot stand, you cannot prescribe to the government what law will be passed, which may also concern your own authorities, i.e. the authorities of the state administration or ministries. In addition to being illiterate, it is in conflict with one another, which is otherwise an example of more members in this law and government law. Article 17 speaks of resolving administrative matters, the legislator tends to elaborate infinitely, writes, prescribes, adds epithets for various things, and the decision on administrative matters is reduced to a minimum, and the secret of that can be revealed in an explanation that represents further evidence of the full illiteracy of this law, because in the light of the reasons for the law being passed, the administration is fulfilling its social function by primarily becoming the regulator of social processes, not the instrument of government. So, management as a social process regulator shows that either the legislator doesn't know what management is, or he doesn't know what social processes are, but it doesn't work with each other. Article 24 introduces state secretaries instead of current deputy ministers. It is the will of the deputy minister to no longer be called Deputy Minister, but rather to the Secretary of State. Yes, it's only common to explain why it is now more important to call the secretary of state, not the deputy minister. Otherwise, I don't mind, if they like to call themselves that, let them call. He's also so-called. a political function, unlike the assistant minister or secretary of the ministry, which is elected for five years. The election for five years, as an instrument of depoliticalisation of the state administration, is a good mechanism. So let's have a depolitical state administration once, but the question is also for the government that we supported, and for this government now we don't support and we think it's not working well, and who's stopping us or who's stopping you from depoliticalizing the government that you're supporting right now, independently of the law. Depolitisation, as well as corruption, is not so much a matter of regulations and rules, but a matter of persuasion and political will to make changes really happen. We'd be the first to welcome this government to say, so we won't, therefore, our political appointments at the level of ministerial assistants, boards of directors, we won't share feudal cakes of power, or administrative functions in the state administration, we want people from the state administration who have 10, 12 or 15 years of experience and who know how to deal with this business. It simply doesn't stand as an argument to any government, or to the previous one, or to this one now. Article 26 speaks of the secretary of the ministry and allows the ministry to have a secretary, these are linguistic concerns, and it does not have to. If he can, then he doesn't have to, and it's the same setting for five years. In all these five-year-olds, there's a mechanism missing in the law, and now what we're going to do. So whether we will have transitional and final provisions or by adopting this law, if you have 126 MPs for it, suddenly we have professionals at the post of assistant ministers, directors of services, special organisations and so on, and how their contribution, professionalism, ethics, non-politicalism, is evaluated, as it is said, professionalism above political sympathy for any party. That's it, he's got intentions, but no imagination, pure negligentness. So, in every sense of what the good intention of the ministry was to pass this law. In Article 27, there is one example that passes through other members of this law, which is to interfere with the rights. So Article 27 concerns special advisers to the minister: "The minister can nominate up to three special advisers. The minister's special adviser, on the orders of the minister, prepares proposals, forms an opinion and performs other tasks for the minister. The rights and obligations of the special adviser of the minister are governed by the contract, according to the general rules of civil law, and the compensation for work – according to the criteria set by the Government." It's mixing labour law, mixing the law that regulates the state administration and hitting the area of what the government is going to do. You have such examples through state administration law, and through government law as much as you want. Articles 36, 37 and 38 define the director of a special organisation and deputy director of a special organisation. I understand again the desire to make a call, because I don't mind, but you have to know if it's the director or if it's some other director. Because there's a board missing here if it's a director like any other director. And if it isn't, then say it, we just call it that, because we like it and that's the illiteracy, the indiscretion in the members of the law. And if you read it carefully once, then you will see that this government would make the best possible move to take the text in this law out of the assembly procedure, or at least to create that business opportunity given by this assembly, and to make amendments to this law during the assembly session. We'll be ready to support it, because it's more important that the written text of the law comes out than that of someone who's stubborn. From being stubborn, only the text of a law read by officials of this government, 1,000 or 2,000 or 3,000, may have people here among us who have not even read the law, but people who are employed by the state administration, be assured that they have read every row. Don't let people laugh behind your back, because you gave them illiterate text in their hands, it's a disgrace to the state. Article 47 of this proposal speaks of supervision. Oversight of work, so the marginal title defines the concept and subject matter of work surveillance. The last position in that article 47 says "The ministry cannot oversee the work of the second ministry. "And it's as if he can, so now only here can one of them. I'm painting you not the most extreme, because the most extreme is the story of an order when there's one situation that has a general case, but the second and third thing in force of the ill-written text that's going to cause confusion in application, and that's quite obvious. Article 67 speaks of the work of several authorities of the state administration. This article reads: "The work of a department of two or more authorities of the state administration is managed by that authority of the state administration in which the work is mostly part of the business". I have no doubt that the legislator, or legislator, wanted something of this, but what he wanted, that would not be understood by any authority of the administration, especially in the definition -- by a large part of the job. Or they'll explain for an example what's complicated about the state administration instead of making it simple. I agree that it is transformed into a public service and that it is transformed into a service that is primarily in the service of Serbian citizens. Furthermore, members 71, 72 and 73 speak about the relationship between the authorities of the state administration and the AP Vojvodina. Basically, when read, it comes down to it, Vojvodina is smaller than autonomy and larger than local self-government. I don't mind if it's your idea, too, but it can't say that the minister is following the constitutionality and legality of the general act. It is known who is in charge of the constitutionality of this constitution in this country. The minister can and must react when he receives a complaint, a complaint, when he enters the process of an administrative act that apparently violates the Constitution. He can't monitor constitutionality, he can't monitor constitutionality, it's a disaster and it can be pronounced, let alone written in the text of the law. Furthermore, in Article 73, the same thing as the Vojvodina, it reads: "In any case, the competent ministry is obliged to question the responsibility of the head of the Autonomous Province's body. "Here I see the legislator does not know the status of the AP Vojvodina. The authorities of the AP Vojvodina are the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina and the Secretariat. I'm getting MPs to change that. I prefer it to change, but I don't like it to change so everything stays the same or change so it's worse. At least I don't have to keep my mouth shut when I see it's working. On what basis will the ministry and in what way will the management of the AP authority call for responsibility? To what responsibility? You're mixing two things. Maybe someone's idea of how it shouldn't or what the AP status should look like, but the relationship, current and valid, between the Republic Government and the AP Vojvodina is the law on the transfer of certain competences of the Autonomous province under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Change it if you have a majority. They say it doesn't comply with the Constitution. Yes, it's in accordance with the Constitution, it's nice to see from article 109, and it's not at all controversial. You can't write this and expect any government worker to do this to you, because it's not only illiterate, but it unnecessarily qualified you as people who want this law to put aside the other law that passed this assembly. Article 75 refers to the competent court as the judicial protection of the right of the Autonomous Province. Therefore: "The order laid down by a general act of the Autonomous Province may bring a claim to the competent court for the protection of the rights of the Autonomous Province, if it considers that by an individual act or by the act of the Authority of the State Administration, one of the Constitution or the law guaranteed the right. "That's where you mixed up two things. You've introduced surveillance of constitutionality and legality, and here you're talking about the state administration doing something beyond the law. So, it's not the state administration's behaviour, because its authority has passed the law, but as you leave the authorities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina to press charges to the competent court. That's the organ of an autonomous province he can do whenever he wants. It's not a connection in the state administration, it's a interference of labour law, organization of state administration and what you want the system to be arranged. A member of the 84th Law on State Administration says: "The buildings in which the authorities of the state administration are located highlight the name of the authorities, coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Serbia. At the entrance to the official room, the personal names of officials, other managers and employees working in it are pointed out, and in the appropriate place within the building is the layout of the premises of the state administration's authority." Tell me in parallel, one law that contains such provisions and office operations, as is the law on state administration. I've got less than three seconds for government law, but in those three seconds, since I've filed 26 or 28 amendments, only major objections. First, the government law without needing itself calls the government law because it represents amendments and additions to the previous Government Act, passed in 1991, with amendments from 1993. There are three major shortcomings. The first drawback is the deconstitution of the Constitution. Without any need, the provisions of the Constitution shall be prescribed from a member to a member and thereby put at risk the assessment of the Constitutional Court of some provision of the law and, in essence, the assessment of the Constitution. The second serious remark is that you have provisions equally inappropriate, such as provisions in the state administration law, of which is a special provision concerning the cabinet of the Prime Minister. The member, who will allow me to chair an apology one minute of extension, reads: "The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have cabinets, which do professional and other tasks on their orders for their needs. The President and Vice-President of the Government may appoint advisers within the cabinet. The working relationship in the cabinet is based on a certain amount of time... "Please, whoever is a lawyer, at least support these amendments that are removed from the government's most terrifying provisions, and this remains as you wish. If you want us all to be ashamed together, we'll be ashamed. So it's based on a certain amount of time; the labour law of someone who is an adviser is entered into the government law, while the government's president, or vice-president, is in office. "The rights and obligations of advisers who do not establish a working relationship (there is another category) are governed by a contract (against the same legislator), according to the general rules of civil law, and the remuneration for work – according to the criteria set by the Government. The cabinets are headed by cabinet heads (this should be in the law to be voted upon by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia), who are appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister and who have the position of Director of the Government's Service who is responsible for the Prime Minister. The head of the cabinet shall end the term of office (a man has a mandate) with the end of the term of office of the Prime Minister, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister, resignation or resolution. "Besides members who are being encroached in the work of the National Assembly, there are other members of the government that mean either a lack of craftsmanship in these two important laws, or it is a matter of human beings in all of us and being stubborn at the cost of their own shame. We will not contribute to anything that would come out of this congregation as illiterate and illiterate. We're ready to discuss the amendments, we're ready to talk about the amendments now that you're intervening with the law on the state administration, because these are two important laws that we think should be passed, but to be written, to be applicable and clear, who does and who calls.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15082	To finish your thought, I've allowed you three and a half minutes of extension. The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15083	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support both draft laws because from these two discussions we have not heard more serious objections to the solutions provided for in these two laws. There is no doubt that both laws are proposed at the right time, that they are complementary according to the solutions and that, in a situation where a serious reform of the legal system begins, after we believe the completion of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, it is precisely the system which is now being created by the Bill on Government and the Bill on State Administration that we are required to implement in an effective way. It is precisely the fact that the proposed government law is a elaborated and precise section relating to the General Secretariat and professional services, as well as to two councils that are scheduled to be set up – the advice relating to state authorities and public services, economic development, the advice set up by the Prime Minister and their relationship in this professional aspect with the state administration and ministries, and the potential coordination established – that is the quality seen from the proposed laws. We are entering a period when a series of laws will be adopted that will be complementary to EU regulations, regardless of the fact that governments will change, just in the proposed law on state administration, the fact that ministerial assistants who will run certain sectors will be non-political, that they will be civil servants, provide continuity in this important business. It's precisely from these sectors that come up with bill proposals. It is precisely these sectors that will be in constant contact with the secretary general and professional services, and this link between the secretariats, professional services and the sector will help formulate a single policy within the Serbian government. The fact that the government law provides for the possibility of forming advice, which will consider proposals coming from individual ministries, creates what is called the centre of government, where a single government policy will be formulated. The Prime Minister has been given the opportunity to develop his capacities under the Constitution, to run the government, direct the government's work and take care of the implementation of a single government policy, which speaks of a clear link between these two laws and solutions in them, from the Prime Minister, his cabinet, the General Secretariat, to ministers and assistant ministers as sector leaders. What was the problem with the current solutions to government law and state administration is lack of coordination, is the fact that there was no way of creating a single policy. Some ministries mainly formulated their policy and the policy was not largely compatible with the government's single policy. It is the quality that these two proposed laws give when looked at in general, when looked at in a relationship and when things are not only looked at superficially, in terms of style and whether it is a transitional solution between one system and another. It is precisely the fact that this proposal for a law on the state administration clearly indicates the process of depoliticalisation of the state administration, clearly indicates that a career system will be reintroduced, that continuity will be ensured, is the step that says that those standards in the EU, which also make the EU a single administrative space, are clearly implemented in this law. All these standards were actually implemented here. This law is a modern law, and it is, as said in the discussion, the basis for reforming the state administration. Of course, it is very important in the government law to note the way the government's mandates are defined, the end of the mandate, the debate on trust, the debate on non-trust. What is very important, which was one void, are powers after the resignations of the government and the minister. It is precisely the fact that the government is doing only technical work afterwards and that it is clearly here, it removes all these dilemmas. Of course, through the debate on amendments, we will point to some other solutions, but in this discussion I wanted to point out precisely that, ahead of the great work ahead of us, before the work that involves the huge number of laws that we have to adopt here, on the eve of the work that means that all ministries must have coordination among themselves, those rules that are being passed, which will represent the implementation of a series of regulations that are in force in the EU, must be related between individual ministries. In that sense, I see the quality of these proposed laws. Of course, it is important to feel one leadership in this great political business ahead. It is precisely in the discussion of those solutions relating to the Prime Minister, as the proposal suggests, that he is leading and directing the government, that he is taking care of the unity of the government's political functioning and that he is coordinating the work of government members, and that he can also give mandatory instructions and special responsibilities to individual ministers, according to the government's programme, that this bill is going towards creating a centre of strategic decision-making and policy unity. It is this fact that the government's programme is uniquely implemented, that there is coordination in formulating the government's policy, that this policy is implemented through the authorities of the state administration, through the state secretaries, especially through assistants, talking about both laws having a clear concept, a clear vision, and it is the very instrument that will help us to bring the important work ahead - the harmonisation of a series of regulations with European Union regulations - in the most qualitative way. In that sense, the DSS will support both laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15084	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15085	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, allow me, on behalf of the SPS, to say a few words about these two draft laws that are now on the agenda of the National Assembly. The SPS appreciates that it is a good thing today that the Assembly is discussing these two draft laws, but it is bad that in this assembly's assembly session, within this agenda, the Assembly does not discuss the third, in our opinion, an important law, which is the law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that, given that this law regulates the issue of relations and government towards the Assembly, it would be logical that we also discussed the law on the National Assembly, but not in the way that it was followed in the work of the media, from the point of view of receiving employees in the National Assembly, but above all only from the point of view of what should be done is the essence of the law on the National Assembly, which is the regulation of the status of the National Assembly, the organisation of the National Assembly, the budget of the National Assembly, the attitude of the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the relationship of the National Assembly to the President of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's bad that we didn't put that issue on the agenda, too, to round up a whole of the relationship that exists between the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To a slow need and it is good that this law is more clear than it has ever been, it regulates the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that it is a good thing that the Bill of Government contains provisions concerning the government's mandate, what the government does and what it does is the essence of its mandate, from the moment of elections, formally, while there is a National Assembly, after the term of office, which are powers and what the Government can do, what the ministries can do, what the Prime Minister can do. We think it's all good, because those questions that have been under-arranged so far are being settled. It's something we consider good. It is also good that certain rules are introduced regarding the organisation and organisation of the government. We also appreciate that there are things in these two laws that, in the opinion of the SPS, if not applied in the right way, can create certain problems. First of all, I am referring to the issue of the organisation of government, ministries and other bodies, namely the number of employees, especially in the context of issues now raised in public, which is a question of rationalising employees or reducing the number of employees in state bodies. Namely, I say, it is not disputed for us to have these two laws on the agenda, that the Bill on Government regulates these relations, as we believe it is quite normal, it also supports, related to the proposal for a law on state administration, installing all those principles which are fundamental principles and which should be respected when implementing the reform of the state administration, such as the principle of decentralisation, depolitisation, professionalisation, rationalisation and modernisation. But I say once again, I think it would be good to pay attention to some other things that these laws can get one negative essence. Of course, I hope it doesn't come to this and we'll see it in concrete government moves, but I think it's necessary to mention it. Why? These two laws predict a certain structure and that structure, about, goes the following way: we have the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, we have the heads of staff. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister can have more advisors. Of course, that's where she goes. technical persons, but all of this increases the number of employees. Then you have a minister. The Ministry can have a secretary of state, one or more. The minister may have three advisors, he may have one or more assistant ministers. Then it's the secretary of the ministry. Also, there is a possibility of calling the council of ministers. The law gives the possibility to form one or more authorities of the administration. There goes the director, assistants, etc., plus technical services. Then there are bodies within the ministry such as administrations, inspectorates and directorates, again with this leadership structure that will further multiply at that lower level. There are also secretariats and institutions, as types of special organizations, and there are also directors and deputies. There are districts spoken of by Mr. Minister, all of which will be part or organization of government work, ministries etc. I'm referring to this because in practice we're going to see this government's definition of whether it's seeking professionalization, towards reducing the number of political functions, or whether it's going to stay, let me say, at this level that's now being found. And I have to mention this specifically for the reason that this government has essentially found an organization, especially people and employees in that entire structure, or it will go through a line of less resistance and will not take any step to make it a more significant shift. When we look at all this, we come to one simple conclusion, the number of people who represented what is called the state administration and users are budgets, and we don't see on the other hand what is essential to Serbia, who is making income and who is doing it. In fact, a lot of people who have been multiplying in different ways over the last few years. Now comes the last question, which I think is very important and is practically about the status of a huge number of people in Serbia. According to Mr. Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, there are 27,000 people in the authorities of the state administration at the moment. This is the state of the year 2004, when this government was created, in 31.6.2004. For the sake of comparisons, in order to understand the number of differences, and during which time period this number of employees increased, I must tell you that according to official data, the number of employees in ministries, special organisations and professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 31.12.2000 was 8,715 people, and in 31.12.2003, an increase of 2,852 people or persons, and now we have 27,000. There is an explanation that we have read in a document called the State Administration Strategy in the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of employees has been taken over by shutting down earlier federal authorities, SRJ authorities and by taking over these bodies, and of course by employees. These figures don't match, so it would be good if we heard from Mr. Secretary exactly how many people were taken over, whether from 12,000 to 27, which is 15,000, or less, to get an answer to who he is and how he hired this huge number of people over the past period. I am saying this for the simple reason that by comparing these figures, I am coming to the frantic data that over the past few years the number of people in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia has been increased multiplely and in this document called the State Administration Strategy is given the answer as it happened. I am referring to this because this issue of increasing employees will especially be expressed when a programme of rationalisation of the state administration is implemented. In fact, we had one simple fact, let me quote, that the previous government, which was from 2001 to the end of 2003, had no clear institutional framework regarding the reform of the state administration and that it did nothing fundamentally related to the reform of the state administration. When there is no strategy, of course you can't make the right moves. That's why she received a huge number of people, and above all on a party basis, and it is found in that document that at the time of the previous government there was a strong expression of mistrust and animosity, I quote, according to the overall composition of the state administration. That's one fact. Second, a replacement of the largest number of existing personnel in all senior positions in the administration of new young people has been made without any prior experience in the state administration. Of course no one has anything against young people. It is an interesting finding, we have no reason not to believe in it – because people who worked in the authorities of the state administration have witnessed their own personal examples, given that they were the subject of shagging and everything else that brought about the democratic changes of October 2000 – these young people essentially do not have the necessary knowledge to, to say, improve the work of the authority of the administration, and whose head they are headed. I'm saying this for the reason that we now have an actual situation, because logically in 27,000 people every reasonable man thinks immediately, and it's no great wisdom, that the number of employees should be reduced. And especially when Serbia is being screened in parallel with other countries of Europe and it is evident that we have more employees than what would make the optimal number of employees in the state administration. The question arises, how will the number of employees in the state administration be reduced. In fact, the State Administration Act puts the issue and regulates only one general, if I may say, way, to regulate the conditions that civil servants must meet, and that is one general framework. The legal basis for this issue is found in the Regulation on the principles for the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in ministries, special organisations and government services. This Regulation lays down the principles for the internal organisation and the systematisation of jobs in ministries and special organisations and, most importantly, the adoption of a regulation on internal organisation and the systematisation of organ jobs. I'm skipping the rule so I can be as clear as I can be. The Regulation shall be adopted by the Minister, or by the Secretary or Director, who manages a special organisation. The Regulation lays down organisational units and jobs which are carried out in the work of the law; the total number of jobs, with the name and description of the jobs for each job or group of jobs and the number of employees required; the conditions for performing the jobs of each job or group of jobs; the jobs for which workers are admitted without advertising. It is also necessary, among other things, to give reasons and to explain the proposal to amend the existing organisation, i.e. to explain the proposal for a new organisation, to specify the number of employees needed in the Authority and their professional equipment by type of business and to explain the need for this number of employees. The Minister, or the Secretary or Director, shall deliver the Regulation, together with the documentary basis, to the Commission for the Review of the Regulations. Of course, I do not question the professionality, objectivity of the minister, of any, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the point of view of whether he will have a good approach when it comes to regulating this important issue. There's a question of these lower levels. If we start from the previously stated finding, which is in this material, that a lot of new young people are party to party membership, essentially, brought to responsible places, they will make proposals on the lower levels to regulate the state administration, or they will make that systematisation at lower levels, and they will be the ones to prescribe the total number of employees. We have one situation, of all of these documents that I have listed, and there is another document called the Regulation amending and supplementing the Internal Organisation Principles Regulation, which is very clear. There are general criteria that can be seen from these documents and that no one question, which is that the general criterion can be an organisational unit, i.e. which is regulated through these organisational units. The number of perpetrators is also one general criterion, professional staffing is a general criterion, a professional exam something that should have every person employed in the authorities of the state administration, as well as business ability. What it doesn't say, and I know that the document can't contain it, and it would be good to hear from Mr. Secretary, because this question is very important, and not just for these 27,000 people, how busy it is now in the authorities of the state administration, but for a very large number of people. Because according to official state data right now, we have 231,000 people who are users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Sooner or later, all those faces will be subject to some similar reorganisation or rationalization. And all these institutions, offices, agencies, or whatever they're called, will have to apply this criterion. And now I'm saying -- there are objective criteria, but there are also special criteria, which of course are not written, but it would be good to hear them. These are certain - years of work, i.e. whether a person has a basis for retirement; then - whether they will be divided into those who need to work and who should leave the state administration from the point of view of years of life; whether they will get the advantage under the same conditions, if they have the same professional equipment, those persons who are 55 years old, say, and high professional equipment, in relation to people who also have high professional equipment, but 25 years, so objectively have a better chance of finding a job on the Serbian market. Whether or not a half of people working in government authorities will be taken into account, because you know that women over 53 years of age can hardly get a new chance to get a job, get a new job, and objectively they can either become social cases and the problem of society. What criteria, in fact, will be most applicable, most measured, because in the context of the normative arrangement of this issue we have only that people who decide to sign a declaration to confirm that they no longer want to work in state bodies are persons whose status will be governed by law and the Constitution. The individual's statement of will is something that no one can question and the individual's own statement that he no longer wants to work in state authorities he will no longer be a worker of state authorities, but the question of these others is raised. How will the selection of other people representing, at least formally, surpluses be made in the state administration? How's that gonna go, say, a list of people who represent a surplus in the state administration? By grading some, if I can use that term, good solutions for state administration workers, it would be logical to first stop being workers of the state administration of those who have conditions for retirement, and then logically be that they get those persons who eventually, by staying on the labour market, can acquire it. To meet the legal requirement that I may retire. And, of course, like the fourth, worst or hardest level, they're the people who are going to be out of a job. Now one objective question is being asked - how will the number of people in the state administration be reduced? Whether these lower levels will be overcome by what people say is an invisible criterion, because beyond these visible, well-known criteria, there are invisible ones, which are in practice applicable and which are simply the only ones that are valid. Of course, I don't want it to be understood that I'm someone who speaks or speaks. a spokesman for all those people who will be subject to rationalization. I'm aware that rationalization needs to be carried out, but I'd just like to, i.e. We MPs of the SPS, to hear from Mr. Minister whether the whole of this problem has been considered, and to hear the answer - how this difficult operation is planned, because it is not just 27,000 people, it is about 231,000 people who are users of the budget and who sooner or later, and as it stands before, will be subject to rationalisation. We did not mention -- of course, you will say that the National Assembly and these laws have nothing to do with it, but it has the budget of the Republic of Serbia -- one number of employees that are part of the functioning of local self-government. And through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the work of local self-government is funded, not only are the jobs contained in the Law on Local Self-Government, so the state provides money to function local self-government in this way, but there are also a large number of employees, and these are not employees who can only be financed through the functioning of local self-government. Consider that there are 160 municipalities in Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, per 100 employees on average per municipality, which is 16,000 people, by 232,000, at 348 thousand each. It would be good if Mr. Minister had the information to hear and how many employees there are in local self-government. Well then we have the AP Vojvodina, so we have Belgrade, people from Kosovo and Metohija, we have municipalities and cities, so we have a huge number of people who will be the subject of what's called a reduction in the number of employees. In that context, I believe that this issue should be dealt with in particular. I think it's good to hear Mr. Minister here in the Assembly what the plans are about, to hear, of course, what I asked him. We have a figure of 8,700 and something at 27 thousand, that's 19 thousand people, but let's hear what's essentially taken over from the federal level, and what's received during DOS. Not to treat these people negatively, but simply to place all those people who are subject to rationalization in the same position, so that not those who have been accepted on the basis of party membership are privileged now that the number reduction is discussed, so that they are someone who will decide on the fate of the people they have found at work, and who also possess the professional equipment and know that they are doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-16-0.u15086	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives or heads of Parliament clubs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the proposals of the Government Law and the State Administration. But, if you will, since it is 17.50, we can end this, and tomorrow the first in a row will be Ljiljana Nestorovic, according to Article 89(3) and the second in Bosko Ristic, so that we can prepare and start the debate tomorrow. They're in agreement. See you tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you.
