ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18140	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, the president attends 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The implementation of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. You have adopted the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the 2005 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals on granting consent to: (a) Decision amending the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, (b)Decision on amendments to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers for 2005, (v) Decision amending the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2005, (g) Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Serbia's Health Insurance Office for 2005, (d) Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2005, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Hranislav Perić, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Vučić, Goran Cvetanović, Paja Momčev, Dragoljub Stamenković, Ljubomir Kragović, Radisa Ilic, Zoran Antic, Miljko Četrić, Momir Marković, Nikola Todorović, Stevica Deđanski, Vitomir Plužarević, Petar Jojić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Zoran Mašić, together Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Belić, Velimir Stanojevic, Miodrag Stamenković, Dusan Mrvoš, Zoran Ćić, Vladan Vučić, Radić and Dejan Rajčić, Sulejman Spaho, Stefan Zankov, Branjman Zović as well as President of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 144(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was contained in the committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18141	Let's pick up where we left off yesterday. Since there is a rebalancing in July, then it must be done in accordance with the applicable laws. This means that it must be shown in accordance with the Budgetary System Act. If so, and otherwise could not be, then in Article 1 of the table view and the economic classification schedule with the amounts of funds would have to be methodologically done in the same way as it was done in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget, because there is no practical legal basis for giving columns such as what is stated under B in Table 1) in receipts and expenditures based on the sale or purchase of financial assets and other loans, so IV, V, VI, and then under V) Indemnity and debt payments - VII and what goes to the end. I'm asking a question to a government official, where did he find a legal basis for what he messed up in Article 1? What is the legal basis for Article 1? In what law, what member is the basis for being able to harass the congregation and deliver such a text? No one can give a legal basis. In order for the public to understand what was going on and on, faster and better when the government saw that we had submitted the amendments, we did not call for legal basis, but rather gave the structure of the conomic classification, the names of these positions and the schedule of these funds, in accordance with the methodology set out in the Budgetary System Act, in the same way as shown in the 2005 budget. Then the government's expert group concluded that it was also wrong with A, B, V, within the framework of Article 1 and submitted amendments. I think that these amendments have been tried by the Government to amend something, fix it, but still only in accordance with the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, not in accordance with the current Budgetary System Act. We are correcting this obvious illegality by amendment. I'd even say it's an illegality that even the promoter doesn't hide, an illegality that doesn't save even the congregation's majority. In order to avoid confusion, if it goes according to the current methodology, then Article 1 of this table display should have far fewer of these positions, under A) Receipts and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's I budget. Total receipts of 432 billion 999 million. Nothing changes compared to what the government has suggested. Then, total expenditures 432,999,000,000 dinars. We now disagree with the government, because the government is proposing that these expenditures be only 400 billion, and 32 billion want to be shown as a virtual surplus. It's just not possible to show up. We found a schedule for all these funds, we found the right positions, we found on the dispensary side where it should be found, so we said that current expenditures should be 416.990.319,000 dinars, employee expenditures should be 84 billion and something else, the use of goods and services 19.5 billion, interest payments of nearly 20 billion, subsidies of 39 billion, social security expenditures 43 billion, other expenditures almost 5 billion, current transfers of 204 billion, capital expenditures almost 16 billion. So we included in the overall expenditure schedule with the planned amount of revenue, and that is the methodology recognised by the existing Budgetary System Act. What did the government screw up in her proposal for rebalancing? It divided all of this according to something still in the minds of some people, so total expenditure reduced to 400 and some billion, current expenditures 384, and out of that employed 84, goods and services 19, interest payments 19, subsidies 30 and something, social protection 43, other expenditures around five, current transfers 181 billion. Of course, we have increased the current transfers because there are grounds for this increase, there are reasons, because this country owes not only to the beneficiaries of the budget, not only to indirect beneficiaries of the budget, but also to the citizens, it owes and the economy, and it has to settle all these obligations, and not to think about some virtual surplus that does not actually exist. It's a purely mathematical category with a change of methodology. What else does the government mess up? It introduces a special column B - Receipts and expenses based on sales, i.e. acquisitions of financial assets and other loans, so IV - Receipts based on sale of financial assets and repayments of loans. They've changed there now, so they've introduced those 27 billion since privatisation, otherwise at the initial stage they forget it, it's none of their business, they've shown it in another position. Loan-based expenditures of 5.5 billion, sales-based receipts of 21.5 billion. It's this methodology of how there's something that exists and it's not there. That's what you're experts for, and you finally showed up at a minus 32.2 billion. Minus is just for show, but it's actually about seeing you on some surplus. Of course, the government also gave a text section on why it changes Article 1 - receipts and expenditures of the Republic’s budget, total expenditures and current expenditures. She changed the economic classifications, practically because they messed up some numbers and some numbers, when they were going on about how to hide this, and we narrowed it down in time and showed what was going on and what was going on, a prank to create a virtual surplus so that only one man in the country would boast. Everyone in the government criticises this concept, that you know who the congregation majority are. Everyone in the government criticises this concept of Mladjan Dinkic showing something that does not exist and keep that in mind when you vote. Ask your presidents of the parliamentary groups, the presidents of your parties, what they think of this. They might tell you niggers and worse things than what I've been saying for a few days from this pay phone, but I'm telling you that by voting for this budget rebalancing bill, you're voting for something that's obviously illegal. You who are calling for legalism, that the law is some sacred thing to be respected and that's why you criticized those predecessors, I'm telling you, if you vote for such a rebalancing, you no longer have the label of law-abiding fighters, because there is no obvious example of breaking the law. Please keep this in mind when voting. The amendment is legally possible, the amendment is desirable. The adoption of this amendment disturbs the other members, but one wrong concept and one sick methodology are disrupted. If a sick methodology is disturbed, then you do a good deed by voting for the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic, whom we do not touch in the Republic's income, we do not touch in the predominant part in the proposed way of deploying those funds, but we are only normal in accordance with the applicable regulations and the appearance of this law and the individual provisions. So by voting for this amendment you confirm that you are for constitutionality and legality. If you do not adopt this amendment, you have told the citizens of Serbia that you are not interested in anything other than your own personal will. It means you're against the Constitution, against the law. The problem is very simple, who votes in favour of the amendment respects the Constitution and the law and does parliamentary work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Whoever does not accept this amendment, the SRS can freely place a badge on which it will write - I am the one who tramples the Constitution and the law to praise the younger, although everyone criticises it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18142	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18143	Article 2 The bill states that Article 2. Budget law changes. It should also read: "The 2005 budget consists of total income of 432.999.000,000 dinars, total expenditure of 400.767,778,000 dinars and budget surpluses of 32.231.222,000 dinars. "Station 2: "The budget surplus of heading 1 of this article will be used for 1) to cover expenditure on loans and the purchase of financial assets of about 5.5 billion dinars; 2) to pay the principals of 23.5 billion dinars; 3) to the remaining part of the budget surplus of 3.2 billion dinars, together with payments based on the payment of loans and the sale of financial assets, makes the balance on the budget at the end of the year, which will be used to pay off the public debt. "What is proposed by the amendment of the SRS? Article 2 is proposed to change and read: "Budget for 2005 consists of: 1) total income of 432 billion 999 million dinars; 2) total expenditure of 432 billion 999 million dinars. "There is no budget surplus, because it essentially doesn't exist. The fact that he drove the film Mladjan Dinkic, that he had some plus, that he did something, let him do it elsewhere. There are other professions that are competent to help in such a situation. But here this is only done by changing one methodology, by introducing a new Article 13a that hasn't yet entered into force, but it's being applied. It's just like when Gassa Knezevic kicked teachers out of college, since the teaching-science council didn't want that dirty job done, then Gassa took it upon himself to finish his own solutions. You know what he wrote in his solutions -- that he did it on the basis of a bill that hasn't been prepared yet, but he's applying it. A law professor applies a bill that isn't even written! That's what Mladjan Dinkic does. He designed some surplus and, in accordance with this new Article 13a, determined the purpose of a future surplus that is not known whether or not it will exist. He's a category that only appeared with a change of methodology. It is similar to the change in the methodology for determining social product in the Republic of Serbia since 2001, when Djelic was smart, he changed the methodology to show that gross social product is in constant growth. Similarly, Milosavljevic did when he changed the methodology for calculating consumer baskets, so he made 25 consumer baskets out of one consumer basket, so if we need our statistics, what he needs, he pulls out one of those methodological categories, and all the media is out there, to convince citizens how well they live, except they don't feel the problem. That's the same thing with this Article 2. We say there's no surplus. There can be no surplus as long as there is a commitment of the state, first of all, to the budget of the Republic of Serbia towards direct, indirect users and citizens. No one convinced us there was a surplus. That's a plastic explanation for you the day before yesterday. A surplus in seeing only Mladjan Dinkic and no one else on the globe exists so that when you have 100 dinars in your pocket, you change the methodology and you say you have 120 dinars, and nothing happened, that hundred is still in your pocket. You want to make it look like there's 120 dinars in your pocket, and they're gone, that's your problem. I don't mind that, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can't accept that and can't live with someone cheating on them like this. Come on, what he takes from them, and he cheats on them, and he says, "Now you have to enjoy the fact that one man released a film that he made a surplus, first in history, Lazar Patch, and this second, and that third, historical personality, has become history already." It's not gonna happen. So the amendment to Article 2 is given according to a methodological approach that exists today in the Budgetary System Act. It is not in line with the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, but I must remind you that this bill has not entered into force and the budget cannot be done according to the wishes of someone who said - come on, we will now change the Budgetary System Act. That's what this is about. Given that these points in Article 2(2), point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 2 are not applicable, The government's proposal has been elaborated and in the provisions that follow, we will specifically explain what this virtuality is looking at and what someone has imagined to sound nice to write that there is a surplus. But I need to draw attention to one more thing. This is where you do your kind of replacement thesis. Someone here tried a two-hour and ten-minute principle debate to convince us that they don't know what the balance sheet is and what the balance of success is. If the state has any obligations that have come and on this basis owes the economy, the citizens, the abroad... I must warn you that everything collected during the year as a public income belonging to the Republic of Serbia's budget is going to the revenue side. All obligations that are fulfilled during the year, in accordance with the law and laws, each obligation must have its own legal basis in the regulation, in law, not in the rule of law of Mladjan Dinkic, and under certain circumstances not even in the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The last government became a world record player. It is, on the basis of Article 2(2). The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia passed regulations on all issues, without any call for a material regulation, but only on a regulation that it says - the government is laying down regulations. Whether a regulation could be made for that particular area was irrelevant to them. These go one step further. So, on the dissipating side, you have to secure positions and provide funds to pay those costs that the state has to pay. In the case of commitments carried over from year to year or commitments made in some wars, in some periods, in a long series of years, this is taken into account when drawing up individual budgets for each coming year, but always the commitment, which occurs for that year, is shown in the budget for that year. The fact that someone tried to lecture us here that this is B and B necessary to draw a line, to see how much the state is in charge and how it collects money to pay off credits sometimes, etc., it's a story for small children, a story for those who have never read the paper in their life. Anyone in this country who was reading the newspaper could understand that the state was charging in accordance with the law during the year and paying out of the budget in accordance with the law. In the coming years, let the state be rational, if necessary, to invest funds in something, to capitalize those funds, to provide them, to take care of the maturity and the maturity of their claims, to service their debts that come to them. But there's no story here. If the story of what our debt is, then, according to the existing methodology, it is the matter of Articles 3 and 4. Budget law, where commitments are made, the total debt of the state, the commitments that are due this year, and the ones that follow must be paid. After all, it all exists in this memorandum of budgetary policy. Everything exists as one long-term projection. The memo is due for this year and for the next two. That's what the law says. That's how you've been working for almost two years. But no, there's a pathological desire here to show a surplus, to keep up the story of how something has been achieved by superhuman efforts, something has been done. What's done? Positive zero or negative zero? Last time I told you -- give him the paper and the pen and let him calculate that surplus and deficit, he'll kill himself by counting and he won't find it, because it doesn't exist, it can't exist. Now the Road Directorate owes about 5.5 billion dinars. By the end of the year, the debt will grow to 8 billion. How can someone in the economy be successful and have debts, big debts? Then why are they persecuting these businessmen who are harming their financial results? Then why is there a crime? He didn't pay anybody anything, he took a picture of how successful he was. So, what's the difference between Mladjan Dinkic and Dafina Milanovic? Dafina owed, took pictures as a success. Mladjan Dinkic and the Ministry of Finance owe, while taking pictures as a success. How can he do that? What's the difference? If the difference is only in the amount of funds to whom it is owed, then Mladjan Dinkic is incomparably longer than they all do. Please, take care, I'm just warning you, the man imagined it in his head, he put on a movie, you know what, we should make a surplus and it'll sound nice. The government screams, the ministers jump and say, "Man, are you normal, give those money you owe to the ministries and indirect users." No, he says, it would be very good if we showed that it is a surplus and it will work beneficial for the people and abroad, because abroad will get reliable proof that this government has raised money, is raising money to pay off loans and loans that come next year. That's not true. This is where he parallelizes his private SDK bank through which he will capitalize with the funds, and you will see, through that vault, how much money he will have on the basis of the bridge, and he will have problems with the budget, and he is already having problems maintaining the current liquidity. In one of the following members, you'll see, this year, it's about 22 billion dinars. The country was also in debt on the domestic market. How can someone be successful if they owe? How someone can be a successful businessman if they don't pay anyone anything, and there's funds in the account, so they pull out private houses, etc. And waits when the bankruptcy comes to say there's nothing to charge and the job's done. That's what Mladjan Dinkic does. He's doing it like a bunch of businessmen. These businessmen who work, they are protected in bankruptcy because Kljajic is in the Trade Court, and here he is protected because Vojislav Kostunica is his prime minister. He knows he won't fall into power. He knows no one's gonna arrest him for these things he does. There's no principled difference. That's what this is about. In order to end his purpose, he must overcome all regulations, he must change everything. You give him support in these changes and in this destruction, that's what this is about. That's why we're going out to explain this to you by who knows which time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18144	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that my amendment be reduced by one billion budget surplus, or budget surplus, which would be transferred next year. It is somewhat illogical to design surpluses in the budget, and on the other hand, budget users do not carry out all predictable tasks per programme. I probably wouldn't have put my amendment if you hadn't reduced your position for agriculture from 10 billion 433.876 to 9 billion 433.875. Where they have found you to take from the farm, but perhaps you have done according to the people, where it is thin there that it is cut off, or he that has none, take it all away from him. But I believe that this time you did, too, take where the weakest link is. Probably where stronger ministers are, you shouldn't have reduced them, and there's no minister in agriculture, there's no interest in agriculture, and there's no understanding of agriculture. That's where you can cut it. That's why last time I suggested that the Minister of Agriculture be replaced. There's no ministry where there's more problems, and we're reducing jobs for agriculture. You want to bring this production to an end. This is one of the hardest years for farmers. Prices are very low. There's been a lot of accidents. In southern Serbia, fruit production has failed, so farmers themselves do not know what to do with them. There's still Minister Dinkic coming, and he says, there's a lot of farmers, so let's get one billion of them out of here. There are plenty of places to strip and there are many positions where it could be taken a little, but it should not have been taken from agriculture. Since he came to power, the minister has only to look at how many employees are employed in the state administration, local administrations. Only if he had removed the surplus workers in that position, then there would have been money for other purposes and there would be no need to take it from the agricultural position. Each municipality increased at least 30% of employees through various directorates, public enterprises in municipalities. Small municipalities in southern Serbia do not have any means to improve, because if you think local self-government can improve agriculture, it will be nothing. Everything they get by the municipal budget is divided into salaries. We have a set of state apparatus and I think that little workers who work in the economy and what little farmers can't wear on their backs this expensive state apparatus. When firing workers in companies, where they are created and produced, where money is made, it is only ordered, from this company to fire 500 workers, 300 workers, and when to fire on the other side, when a state apparatus is to be reduced, it is very difficult. I think here in the first row that increase is a little bit and a bit of a party. With my amendment, I wanted to increase, i.e. To return only a billion from where we took it, and to use it for much more useful purposes. In the area of Serbia, I think about 29 undeveloped municipalities, especially those poor municipalities this year, have also hit disasters, and there have been floods, and there have been cities in these municipalities and so on. If the minister had no place to use that billion for other purposes, then at least those municipalities could share it so that they could be found in the order of normal municipalities. I don't think there's much we're going to do. Only where the state could invest to make it worth more, is agriculture, and I think our people and citizens of Serbia know it best and do it. We can't compete with anyone anymore and make TVs, make high-tech. What we know is what we should do. I think you will have the understanding to pay attention to the amendment in the voting day and to help with your vote to increase our position for agriculture and to direct at least some budget money in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18146	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18147	Unlike my predecessor, I will vote for my amendment. And he's going to vote for his amendment. I'm not sure. I'm not sure, given that the SPS has come out for some time to criticise, and then they all vote, but I'm sure you're not going to convince your MPs to vote. You'll probably vote for your own. Now I call on my predecessor and his MP group to pay attention to the amendment to Article 3. It is an amendment that is proposed to increase the amount of transfer funds addressed to the state community, to increase from 50 billion to 60 billion, to help our army, as it faces several problems. The first problem was Boris Tadic. The other problem was Davinic. The third problem was jumped by Mladjan Dinkic. The fourth problem, they don't know anything, they don't even know what the structure of our army is. There are a lot of civilians for him, a lot of these, a lot of them, they've forgotten only one thing, and that's that our children who serve the army should have some meal. It takes our technical resources to stay in the army some time and run, to do both some practice and some training, so that people can simply be able to defend the country. To achieve this, since there are funds in the budget, I don't call them surpluses, but I say revenues are impressive, there's no problem that this virtual surplus really separates 10 billion and that the military. The army is ours, not this Natovska. Besides, here's a guess which trouble our army will have, if those who need to cross our territory go to Kosovo and Metohija, they'll be attacked there by the Shipari and they'll start running. What should our army do? Who does he defend? We're supposed to keep those NATO troops running from their friends yesterday, if they're fighting, and there's some hints that the Shyper terrorists, now the people in power, don't like the presence of foreign troops, because they're pretty sure they're going to break the credentials on their side or on another side. Separate the money for the army. A state that does not protect its army, a state that does not finance its army, a state that does not meet the needs of its army, a state that does not respect the fact that our army has gone through – you are sad MPs here, so you do not know some things; and in 1993, 1994 and 1995 there was a special law on material support and transformation of the Army of Serbia-Montenegro; the army has a large number of unresolved housing issues – our army is burdened and people who had to cross over to the Republic of Serbia, because they have been expelled from their homes in Slovenia, Croatia and that I do not order further. Have a more humane relationship with our army. Get rid of those advisors who tell you about the transformation, and they didn't serve the army. The councilman didn't serve the army, and now he advises the minister what to do. He's got an advisor who's a retired captain, a disabled pensioner, that Veljko Kadjevic. Take care of what you do. The army's not a toy. Separate funds for the army, the army is ours, and that army will go to the service of the military, and your children will go. Ask the younger ones whose children are in the army, what their status is, what are the meals, what are the conditions of the accommodations. Ask around, not to advertise civilian service, with a replacement baby diaper at the maternity home. The army is a serious matter. You're looking at the army insecurely. Dinkic has now taken over the assets of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. You see how he justifies that depriving the military's resources. He says the military is holding the largest number of immovableities in Serbia and another reason -- something is wrong with military service, or financial work at the Army of the state community, because they're making some kind of malfeasance there, etc. It may be the second and the minister is right, but it is not being solved in the way the minister imagined it. Shorten funds to the budget, reduce salaries, reduce the status rights of officers and soldiers at regular service of the military, deny the possibility of lagging equipment and tools. Something is waiting, and what is waiting, joining or this or that and new standardisation of weapons and changing the entire structure of our army, which would have to be brought into line with what, with what Vuk Draskovic had imagined. Who could have given Vuk Draskovic that authority to sign an agreement? He's not capable of signing an agreement, he doesn't have a chance to look at the whole problem. He is only capable of treating the part as much as it takes to avoid being accused as the founder of a paramilitary formation, so as not to be accused of what he threatened to bring up a green banner to cut off his hand. That's the Wolf Draskovic. And to forget all his nonsense, what he was doing in this country or that meeting with Mesic when he drew the boundaries. He accepts everything. If he were to ask Dinkic, our army wouldn't get a single dollar, because for Dinkic and Vuk Draskovic, the army is a ballast, a burden. They don't think it's necessary for this country. I must remind you that in The Hague documents, on charges, this army of ours is being treated as a participant in a criminal enterprise, and you all know very well that our army is not it. She's never been, never will be. Protect that army, the army is needed. Don't trip the army every step of the way. Today we're talking about the financial aspect, obviously you want to trip it all the way, to question the functioning of our army. You can't do that. And in the most difficult years, the authorities took care of their army. That's why we submitted the amendment, because the surplus doesn't exist, and there's a space on the side of the income. We propose to focus 10 billion deliberately, by changing Articles 3 and by adopting our amendment, and this is later being discussed in the next amendments, Serbia-Montenegro's Army. We need an army. The one who doesn't need an army, he's not a citizen of this country. Whoever thinks we don't need an army can't run the country. Whoever thinks the army should be stalled, denied her the elemental things, cannot lead this country. You who run this country, take care of what you do with the army, if nothing else, then because of the fact that your children go there to serve the army and that you don't care what kind of meal they have. By voting for the army, you vote for your children.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18148	National MP Hranislav Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18149	The predecessor mentioned me, so I just want to say for the truth, I always say what it is. I always vote for my amendments, and so does Comrade Krasic. I also vote for his amendments often, but those amendments I understand, he often explains it widely, so some amendments I don't understand and I can't vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18150	The word is from the MP Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18151	Apparently, my predecessor didn't understand me. It's not about the width. It's a very specific thing, and it's not hard to understand, nothing hurts, it doesn't have to be stuttered. I cannot understand, the MP submits amendments, criticises the bill, and when the time comes to vote, votes for the law in principle, votes at the end for the law to receive the order to vote. It's very simple to understand, there's no width. It's tight, so there's no rope where to be. Secondly, because of this width, I don't know who can be clear. The SPS voted for Vuk Draskovic to be foreign minister. When the foreign minister was elected and asked what it was like for you, since you voted with the SPS, since you were screaming at the Republic Assembly what your own accepts, he says, I didn't force them to vote for me. Nonchalant, cold. We are now criticising the foreign policy of the state community. I don't want to list the things that are public and how well-known you are, as far as his statements are concerned. In Kosovo, the previous regime was a genocide, etc. I'll just mention two fatal things he's done. The first thing, which he persuaded and deceived Rasim Ljajic to conclude an agreement on mutual recognition of the rights of the Serb national minority in Croatia and Croatia in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. And that's how he stabbed all the Krajina Serbs in the back, because he admitted that in 1990 there were no problems, but the hira Serbs raised their voice. The Serbs who were expelled from the Constitution, it was Vuk Draskovic, take it off. If you're against him, do it. Secondly, here's what he signed a few days ago, secretly negotiated, negotiated, and you believe in Svetozar Marovic? Who believes in him? People in the nearest environment don't believe in him. You guys define yourself. If we want to have a state, then we have to say, Vuk Draskovic must be removed, as in the Assembly of the State Community, the procedure to start to resolve. And why is that? It's perfectly well-founded to doubt his business ability. He's a man with judgment issues. Run it, you choose it, you change it. Don't go out here and criticize something, and when it comes time to vote, you know, we had to vote. Why did you have to vote? That's another question. Nothing's wide, but very specific and it doesn't need to be squished, it can be understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18152	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18153	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, I think this exposure by Mr. Krasic best confirmed the words of Mr. Peric, my colleague, because he talks all the time about Vuk Draskovic, Vuk Draskovic, and we are discussing the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What does Vuk Draskovic have to do with the budget rebalancing and this, Mr Peric explained that, and the reasons that motivated him to have this attitude towards these amendments. The truth is, the SPS did vote for Vuk Draskovic to be elected Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State, because he was part of the package we accepted when we decided to support this three-way government. Our alternative was Goran Svilanovic. Now we know, you saw his position on Serbia's state and national issues in the meantime. The second thing, when we and our colleagues from the SRS submitted an initiative to replace Vuk Draskovic, there were two or three votes or MPs who were not presently in the National Assembly, so that Vuk Draskovic was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18154	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18155	Mr Krasic misread me. I'm just saying what's true. Krasic, however, is my friend and I vote for his amendments, where he explains them well and where he has an explanation. I don't understand where it's deleted, so I don't know what's behind it or how to plead for that amendment. But when he explains it, you don't get it. That's why I don't vote for it. As for the vote, Mr. Krasic, we've all learned from you what we vote like this. And as the messengers are brought out to make a quorum and what is it that we have learned from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18156	National MP Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18157	I thought he could do it without a stutter, but now I realize he's got to make out. So she's got to make out before she gets out. Shut up, please. How can you not see the link between the military and Vuk Draskovic, that you do not see the link between the amendments that we are asking to increase by 10 billion separation towards the state community dedicated to the military. I understand for you that in the next term, one board has to be here, so that it can be drawn. It's not a problem and it's not very expensive, but it's not hard to understand. And from whom you have learned, it might be better if you had told whom you have learned, because that dimension exists with you. So, it's not a problem, you stick it before you go out, no matter what it says, whether it's erased or not deleted. If you don't understand, there are a lot of people here and they can help you, to explain it to you. However, you are well aware of the explanation and you know why you support it, and you know why you entered that package. It's your destiny, I'm not going to it. But it's a little awkward when you come out on a foreign amendment and you criticize the government, and then after five minutes of voting, accept everything Mladjan Dinkic has suggested. It's a little embarrassing, that happy Albianic came out here and some old times stories, just from the aspect of the group sitting on this side. When we warned him, you know what, we were mostly in the opposition back then, and some were in prison. You then get a little wrinkle and wake up, and in the meantime, if Angelkovic is chairing, he just bends his head, realizes what hit him, what storm, and he has to push. So it's not that hard to conclude. The citizens had long since concluded and had not been stuttered with their heads. If you need to stutter, squirm twice, then step out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18158	The word has a People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, on what basis? As a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18159	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't realize the subject of this debate was SRS and SPS. We can talk about it, but I don't think that's the goal of our distinguished colleague, who has been with us and our friend Zoran Krasic for many years. I think the goal is to stall as long as possible and conduct a budget rebalancing debate. We don't mind you using your time, just don't do it by arguing with the SPS. I have not noticed that your programming goal is contrary to what the SPS stands for in national and state interest. Also, relations with ruling groups were different at a time when we were on the same side and we weren't on the same side. But even then, it seemed to me that the desire to come from a certain level of political consensus between very important political actors on Serbia's political scene at a time when Serbia and the Serbian people were difficult. You are well aware that the SRS has once supported our minority government, just as the SPS today supports the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. I don't believe that your motives for this support were at the time different from the motives that the SPS today has. Also, at a time when you were in the Republic government of Mirko Marjanovic, Vuk Draskovic was the vice president of the federal government. You, of course, know we voted for Vuk Draskovic's shift. It is true that we voted in favour of selecting all those that Kostunica has proposed as his own package that will exercise power and, as far as that is concerned, it is our relationship with those people that someone else has proposed, not the SPS. We voted in favour of his recall when the initiative was on the agenda and we will vote again when it is on the agenda. But as far as the SPS is concerned, we don't want to engage in an argument and squabble with the SRS, because we don't think there's any reason for that, especially because the time is such that we don't need to say words that can tomorrow be an obstacle to establishing any relationship on Serbia's political scene. In that sense, since I see the gentleman say - what are you going to do with us, then say it in more than a few dozen municipalities, in more than 60 municipalities in Serbia you are in power with the SPS. Therefore, if so, let us not speak so badly of one another. I didn't replicate my esteemed second and neighbour, Zoran Krasic, I just want to say that I think the SRS and the SPS have a lot of other targets, not to stick each other, unless you want to extend the debate. If that's what you want, go ahead, but without our reactions on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18160	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic and Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18161	Mr. President, you later entered, as my predecessor later entered, reported that he was replicating me, and he ended up on a karate that he had no intention of replicating me. It's probably some kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, because in a discussion of the injury and replica between Hranislav, Obradovic and I, Mr Dacic, is probably unaware of what was previously discussed. I haven't gone as far and wide as you've spread in this one of yours, you call it. I didn't even talk about what you were talking about. I was just talking about why the SRS proposed to increase by 10 billion dinars a portion of the funds directed from the Republic of Serbia's budget towards the state union, aimed at Serbia-Montenegro's Army. I made one remark at the expense of Franislav, how it attacks the government, and when the time comes, it always votes. I figured before it came out for this pay phone, she'd have to make out more than once. At first, I said she didn't have to make out, so I said she had to make out once, so I said twice that she had to make twice. Don't make me make the whole mixer work here. I wasn't talking about coalitions in the local government at all. I didn't talk about who the patriot is, who the traitor is, but I just gave a critical look at one of the behaviors to be criticised here, and when it comes time to vote, something else goes. And you weren't this morning. This morning I thoroughly explained Article 1 and 2 are contrary to regulations, the methodology has changed, everything has changed. If you want, grab the plug for these remarks. Don't grab the plug-in for anything else, because if we have to go into the replica system for it, then tell us to open up the agenda point, and explain that wooden stove, and that thing that's haunting him, why he was stalking him, etc. The fact that you were once in power, so in a different period with other parties you were in power, it's known, no one called for it, no one challenged it, from 1992 until 2000. No one questioned that. But I get the impression, as soon as the SPS is mentioned here, I didn't mention it, I mentioned a specific MP, and the same story is going on right now. It's about like that Wolf story. The wolf says - state terrorism, persecution, etc., and the SPS only about who was with us, when he was with us, and these, and these. They won't listen to that anymore. (President: Time. ) Focus on these 10 billion we propose to give to the military. That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18162	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Chekovic. Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Cekovic came forward before you, so you'll come back later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not seem to have the same agenda. Is it on the Serbian Parliament's agenda this morning, Vuk Draskovic? (Momir Markovic, from the scene: Always.) Always. The fact that the SRS mentions Vuk Draskovic, it is simply a compliment to SPO. I am aware that no political move made by Mr. Vuk Draskovic can be understood, nor can you justify it. We're politically different. These political differences are seen in procedures and SPO, and in Mr Vuk Draskovic. I think it would be correct to discuss budget rebalancing if there are people who know how to talk about it. I skipped my budget rebalancing speech wanting this assembly to finish work as soon as possible. But since it is Vuk Draskovic that I also respond to the Socialist Party. It is degutant, gentlemen of the Socialists, after the Ibar highway, following the verdict of the assassination of Vuk Draskovic, to mention him at this time. The desire of the SPO is to forget those old times. If we know who the culprit is, who ordered the murder and attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic in Budva, and if it is said in court that it is Slobodan Milosevic, we are persistently trying not to identify you with Slobodan Milosevic, and in that sense we respect you as fellow MPs and as a party, with which we are not the same program, but we allow ourselves to work with you in the period ahead of us, during the period needed by Serbia. Please don't talk about Vuk Draskovic, you who killed him twice, you whose President Slobodan Milosevic proved it in court. The SPO during the formation of this government was a party that could not, therefore, be a party that did not dictate the conditions for coalition partners. Our political desire and will was for the coalition to be the Democratic Party. That's what we wanted, and that was the SPO proposal. We accepted the majority's decision and the SPS gave correct support to the ruling coalition. Please, for all of this, because of four murders at Ibarska masteral, for all that the SPO has lived in 10 years of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, skip Vuk Draskovic. If you want his shift in the federal parliament, raise the question. Vuk Draskovic in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly did not even ask for your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18164	Here you go, Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I warn you, Mrs. Cekovic, I assume it was a lapus in question, no one in this House, from this House, has ever killed anyone. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18165	Anyone who's killed, who's committed crimes should answer. We've always advocated that the truth be established, we've always advocated that anyone who committed any crime should answer. However, this needs to be handled by evidence cases, to bring them to an end, rather than political judgments based on assumptions. That's why we reacted to the decisions of some courts, which on the assumption, in oral arguments, those who, if undisputed, connected the perpetrators of these murders to the fact that the employers came from the state government. Once again, the interest of the Socialist Party of Serbia above all is to establish the full truth about it and we insist on it, but we are also against political abuses and political pressures on the decisions of the court, as they have been happening over the past few years. I have already said that our relations with political parties in Serbia are such that in the ruling parliamentary majority there is a big difference in understanding between some political parties. That's why the SAA has a deal with the DSS and we don't go into DSS relations with other coalition partners. So this kind of relationship between us doesn't surprise us, as we're not surprised by G17 plus, which you could hear yesterday, about some things from that ten-year history, because that's their political opinion. We have a completely different opinion, we are on a different political side, but when there is no government in Serbia, there is a better government between different political options than the Government of Zoran Zivkovic at the time. As for all the other stuff about stammering, I think you went to the wrong address. As far as the SPS is concerned, we're not much of an expert on stuttering. Therefore, as for stammering and stammering, please contact some other political parties. As far as I'm concerned, I'm ready to stop with all of you. Whoever's a better student than me in the history of some college, I'm gonna take his hat off.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18166	Can we continue on the amendments? No, I don't. According to Article 98(2), a five-minute delay to carry out consultations on whether we will proceed to the agenda. [[After break – 11,25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 3? (No) Ambassador Milorad Mircic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a national envoy, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18168	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as one MP from the SPS said, and yesterday, the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, the SRS, in cases where it does not agree with the concept and strategy of a draft law in the Assembly, it is normal for us to seek the adoption of this bill. The only way, according to the Rules of Procedure, is to submit amendments to which certain proposals are deleted. Of course, we from the SRS parliamentary group are trying to make as convincing as possible and as logical as possible for you in the O.R., as well as for those who watch the transfer of the Serbian Parliament, explain the justification of such an advocate. In particular, to Article 4. The draft budget rebalancing law, SRS MP Milorad Mircic, has tabled an amendment to delete this article. The only reason is, and that's to finally stop the state from borrowing through ino-credits. Article 4 of the budget rebalancing suggests the following: that guarantees and counter-guarantees of the Republic of Serbia will be issued in 2005, up to the amount of, say, 100,270,602,585,74 dinars. Borrowing with foreign creditors for already signed loans up to 55 billion 113 million, etc. The dinar. We believe in the SRS that the time has finally come to stop borrowing, because since you came to power in 2000, counting on 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, the donations you received from certain international organisations and banks, the IMF, the World Bank, the Paris Club, etc., you have shown to the public as if they were amounts of funds on which we have no obligation to pay interest. In fact, it was classic loans that you baptized the cauldrons. Now, the European Investment Bank, among other things, needs to be paid back by five loans of 46 billion 480 million dinars to resuscitate the roads totaling 7 billion 885 million dinars. We agree, I'm sure, not only us in this room, but all of Serbia's citizens, that our paths are in a catastrophic state, and this is regional roads, and local roads, and categorized, and untegrated roads. That's a fact. On the one hand, however, we worry that our paths are in good shape, that they may be usable, and on the other hand we do not care enough to keep those paths, at least those in a very solid state. In that sense, you should worry about the arrival of NATO vehicles on Serbia-Montenegro's territory. These are heavy armored vehicles, trucks, transporters, etc. They'll ruin our bad roads anyway. Instead of asking for North-Atlantic military alliances to compensate, donation, not as a loan, but as a donation to repair these roads for the passing of their vehicles, because by agreement you allowed them to already enter Serbia-Montenegro, then you could ask them for money to fix those roads that they would go through. About the fact that NATO soldiers will enjoy criminal and legal protection, i.e. immunity from any kind of responsibility to the state of Serbia and to individuals whom, God forbid, this will also happen, we have experience in Macedonia's case, that they do harm, at the cost of losing the lives of these citizens, and material damage, then we should have a lot to worry about. In addition, the capital investment minister has a large number of trucks that cruise Serbia and should take more care of the state of our roads. Next, you give for the project of European roads, only for the project, and one is the recovery of roads at a certain amount, and the other is a project for European roads, amounting to 9,960.000. Don't you think it's a lot of money and a lot of money for one of those projects? Furthermore, KFW loans of five billion to EPS for certain losses in electricity production and distribution. We have here our earlier EPS task with the Czech Republic and now Serbia has bought the debt on behalf of the EPS. She had a good time to pay off that debt for 36m euros. She did not, but later bought the debt through a particular firm, a certain legal entity from Hungary, for 48m euros. The difference is 12m euros, for which the state is damaged. Where's that money? Where are those funds? Did those funds go to someone's private pockets? If they are not, I believe personally, and we believe in the SRS, and assuming they are not, apparently the state is damaged by 12m euros. That's a huge amount of money, that's a huge amount of money. The European Investment Bank, based on six loans this year, will be signed for a debt of 45 billion dinars for the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure in smaller municipalities of two billion and some dinars. Who determines what smaller municipalities these are? Whoever decides by what criteria and by what criteria, who gets that money. I've got SRS MPs, Dinkic. Of course, Miroljub Labus and Dinkic, gentlemen of MPs and you unbelievers, and I mean those who do not believe in the G17 Plus Group, I will give you an example, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, Mladjan Dinkic are helping individual municipalities and individual local communities. Who? Where the G17 plus people come from. The example is Paracino, Krushevac and Užice. One village from where Tomica Milosavljevi, your health minister. The second village where the councilman from G17 plus is from, and for the third village, I won't mention. For Kruševac and Užice the same story will tell you a little bit more about Radiša Ilic, an SRS MP from Paracino, because she knows more. I don't know what the name of the village is, the president of the National Assembly, but it's about him, too. Furthermore, for the recovery of flood-hazarded areas of 803 million dinars, foreign creditors in the amount. We all know that decent areas in Serbia's territory have been threatened by floods over the past few months. We know about Vojvodina, we know about individual villages, Jasa Tomic, Međa, we know about the area of Šumadija and Kragujevac, we know about southern Serbia. Of course, the elemental disaster needs to be resolved, major damage has been done. On the other hand, agricultural producers pay the country a large amount of deforestation tax for their agricultural land. They have no return benefit from that. Now all those who are threatened by streams and rivers are asking for help from the municipalities, and the municipalities are in such an unembarkable situation, they do not have the means even though they want to help. Who's required? The Republic is obliged to help, because it stands behind the collection of funds and has to re-arrange certain areas, so as not to endanger the population in such cases. Requests have been made to the Government to compensate for certain damage done in flooded areas. What did the government do? I'm familiar with the damage in Alexinac, not only according to the community service estimates, but also according to the assessment of the Morava Water Centre in Nis, a total estimate of 34 million dinars, and the government allocated a million dinars. What are we supposed to do with that money, and the great damage is caused by the flood and the flood in April and May? Also, I have information that in a flooded area around Leskovci. The government has done absolutely nothing on the allocation of funds for the recovery of damages from these floods. Why? The question is whether Mladjan Dinkic influences it as finance minister, where money is for radical municipalities not to help. Both Alexine and Leskovac, and probably some other municipalities. That's how you determine the criteria, your criteria, who needs to be helped and who needs to be recovered from the budget or incredits. These are your criteria and these are your criteria that we don't believe in. There are items that credits totalling 3,430,000,000 to the Municipality of Čačak, the Municipality of Bor, Zrenjanin, and in certain amounts, here I am finishing and that you have time, I have nothing against helping certain municipalities, but why specific municipalities of Čačka, Bora, etc., to build wastewater treatment facilities, and especially Bora, but other municipalities should be considered. The municipality of Zrenjanin is not told why. Finally, let me just say for the public, and all of us MPs know, because we have this review, the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the incredits on 31 May 2005 is 808,556,000 and so on. Even 808 billion, so don't you think that's a lot? Who's gonna pay it back? Our descendants. We can't even make it back. Our descendants, our grandkids, our great-grandsons, our great-grandsons won't be able to repay all these debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18169	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's got three minutes. This is the exact information you said about the budget, is that, it speaks of a great respect for the Assembly if ministers are to this extent led to the care that local communities are helping where the president of the Assembly was born 50 years ago. I thank you and pray that you pay attention to the cancer I've been living in for years now. Thank you and welcome, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18170	The problem with this article is that we did not get a review of the provisions that are being changed in this bill. And if we got that review, you would see that in Article 5, now after the rebalancing, it is said that in 2005, guarantees and counterguarantees of the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to 120,270,000,000 and so on. To that extent, this country should be guaranteed. What's he guaranteeing? It guarantees a budget for commitments based on debt. These payment obligations come later, but the state takes over this year's commitment and issues counter-guarantee, they're the laws you're serially bringing here. Let me just tell you what the dynamics of giving these guarantees and counter-guarantees are, or the means of security based on duty. Borrowing with foreign creditors for already signed loans of 55 billion, but when this rebalancing is adopted, by December 31st, we are still in debt for 45 billion. Think about it, no matter what payment obligation comes later, since guarantees and counterguarantees are issued by the Republic of Serbia. Then who is the beneficiary of these funds: public enterprises of republican importance and local self-government. When the balance of our debt is added to that, which is the 4th sub 4th -- on 31 May 2005, it is, and now no one can fully see it, here it is given in dinars, this foreign debt, and it is given on the basis of the potential obligations of the Republic of Serbia, it is quite certain that the Republic of Serbia will owe 30 billion more than these 808 billion, and the debt situation in the domestic currency is 27.5 billion. This is the state which is shown in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, which is why there was no need to amend this regulation. It's evidence that the state is going towards uncontrollable borrowing and certainly debt slavery. That's why it doesn't take a lot of heads to figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18171	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Belic, Velimir Stanojevic, Miodrag Stamenković, Dusan Mrvos, Zoran Ćirkovic, Vladan Vukicevic, Radic Jokovic and Dejan Rajcic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenković submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The bill so that it reads: "In Article 7. Section 7 of function 180, in economic classification 463, the amount of 50,114.1155 is replaced by 60,114.1155 and the amount of 13,800,000 is replaced by 16,545,568,000 dinars. The amount of 2,745,568,000 shall be deleted and shall be replaced by 76,659,683,000 dinars in columns 6 and 8 - 66,659,683,000." The reasons for submitting this amendment are, as the proposed one shows, for certain funds to be transferred to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro for the needs of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. We're all familiar with a very difficult material position, that our army is simply convulsing in debt and unmistakable obligations, both current and planned for the development of an army of the state community. So I suggest that these funds be channeled so, here it's given concretely that there are no additional funds, to be said that there is a change, it can only be poured over here. There is one item that I would especially like to potential, which is a point of cost that goes to the Coordination Centre and the Coordination Body for South Serbia, amounting to 2,745,000, which is an asset that no one controls and, if we look at the results and effects of these budgets, we can conclude that the interest and benefits of only Nebojsa Covic and his closest associates, and that citizens in Kosovo and Metohija have no benefit from these funds. Otherwise, by draft budget law, Split 7 - Ministry of Finance, I will briefly read - function 180, transaction of the general character between different levels of government, and economic classification of 463, donations and transfers to other levels of government in the amount of 2,745,568.000 intended for the implementation of the programme of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija. For the functioning and operation of the co-ordination body of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja and the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo in Metohija of 52 million dinars. Payments to employees in local self-government units, in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija amounting to 1,200,000 dinars, salaries of employees of the Public Enterprise of Serbia on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija amounting to 60,000,000 dinars, beneficiaries of social protection rights of 550,098,000 dinars, as well as for the implementation of the programme of the Co-ordination Centre on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija amounting to 222,968,000 dinars, as well as part of the appropition of 300,000 dinars on the basis of the issue of an additional stamp in 2005 intended for the purchase of property and earthquake programmes, is likely to mean Kosovo Pomoravlje and the rehabilitation of these programmes. Here, when we had the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the budget rebalancing debate for 2005, we only received information about the Fund for Kosovo and Metohija. I note that within the framework of the government of the Republic of Serbia's resources, the decision on the education of the Kosovo and Metohija budget fund has been educated indefinitely for Kosovo and Metohija. The Fund's task is to participate in the creation of software, development, infrastructure, social and other parts of security life and the return of the Serbian and other non-Albanian populations to Kosovo and Metohija on the principles of solidarity. In line with this decision, funds for the work of the fund are provided primarily from donations, legislation, gifts and other sources, as well as from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What was collected from the founding of the fund, as we received information from the Assistant Minister of Finance, are the funds of 139,000,000 dinars, noting that expenditure was 42,000,000. What are these expenditures, it is one big unknown, if the fund-raising effect of the Kosovo and Metohija Fund is a figure of 139 million, and we have expenditures of 42 million. I don't think it has any effect here, that this fund for Kosovo and Metohija has not fulfilled its purpose, so it is now foreseen that the Kosovo and Metohija Fund is also financed from the budget to replace it. So there are no stakeholders, there are no ones who want to help the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, and then they are affected from the budget as well. I think all of this should stand through the competent ministries, which should take care of the work, development and survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The Committee also noted that the large funds missing for the functioning of the life and work of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So, among other things, it was made clear that 790 million were missing for the work of local units of local self-government, that 100 million dinars are missing for social assistance, that 1.2 billion dinars are missing for the return programme of exiled and refugees from Kosovo and Metohija. Taking into account all these figures, it means that this surplus of the budget, which Mr. Mladjan Dinkic presented in his presentation, was also achieved at the suspension of funds for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. If this relationship with those Serbs who, exposed to the terrible terror of Cypriot terrorists and the international community's carelessness have managed to survive for six years and intend to remain in Kosovo and Metohija, this is the motherhood of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I cannot challenge Mr. Finance's minister here, that he is guilty of this, it is my fault that the host of the house, and this is the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, and he should not have allowed the funds to be missing for the work of units of local self-government, the lack of funds for the social assistance of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and that they cannot provide funds for the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. What we all want and what we're all talking about is that we need to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but these are just empty stories, and there are no concrete moves. Listing this proposal for budget rebalancing from one economic classification to another, I encountered the Ministry of Mining and Construction, with an economic classification of 511, buildings and construction facilities, to allocate four million dinars for the needs of Kosovo and Metohija. Then, the Ministry of Capital Investments, classification of 511, buildings and construction facilities, 22 million and 95 thousand dinars for the return programme for temporarily displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. It is the only item that figures in this budget, which is foreseen by the Ministry of Capital Investment as one figure that will be invested to help those Serbs who want to return to the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. However, here I would also like to remind the Minister of Capital Investments' promise to build a water line for the citizens of northern Kosovo, and then he was with his companions from Brace Karic, that he will finance it, but here I do not see in this budget proposal that there is such an item for financing the local water pipeline for northern Kosovo. Then, the Ministry of Labour and Employment, social assistance to the vulnerable population of 330 million dinars. Environmental protection agency 45 million 850 grand. But this goes both south of Serbia and the KIM Coordination Centre. The ministry of education and sports is the same 17 million for southern Serbia and the KIM Coordination Centre. These are all symbolic means with which nothing can be done. I know that there are not many funds, but also those that are in the Republic of Serbia's budget are not being used properly, so decisions and these plans will probably make this realisation very small and very low, and will not have an effect on the improvement of the Serbs in KIM, so I suggest that, if nothing else, this amendment will be accepted, so that at least the military of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will help, because it is the only guarantee, not only for the security of Serbia and the state of Serbia, but also a guarantee for the Serbs in KIM. If there is a strong army of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then there is our security and our security that not everyone can strike at us and harass us wherever they want. However, if we continue with this policy of destroying Serbia-Montenegro's army, then others will realize that there is no one to defend us and anyone to protect us, they will be able to harass, chican and suppress the remaining 110,000 Serbs at KIM. I therefore propose that you accept in the day of voting this amendment of mine and increase the funds of the Serbia-Montenegro state union military, so that Serbs have one foothold, to trust one institute, which is the Institute of Serbia-Montenegro's state union.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18173	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is little time left to defend this amendment and Mr Kragovic very well explained his amendment. However, there is something left that is not sufficiently highlighted, so I would be in that part. Only a crazy man and a traitor would be against the fact that these funds provided for the Serbia-Montenegro army, which is working downstairs under extremely difficult conditions, are approved. I hope we have one item on the agenda in this assembly, so let's talk about the agreements that individual traitors sign on behalf of us and on behalf of our country. However, I have reported for this second part, so the funds that are allocated to the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities and for the same centre, for the same head of the Coordination Centre, for the same man who will spend the funds on behalf of the KIM Coordination Centre. This is about about about five billion dinars. So two billion 745,568 thousand dinars from the budget and three billion from the funds received by an extra stamp. Of course, we don't mind the allocation of those funds, but it has to be taken care of every spent dinar, that the head of the Coordination Centre doesn't build his own party infrastructure, so the extremely nice and well-equipped offices, though, are empty because he couldn't trick anyone into entering his party and if he managed to bribe someone, he's in his party. It's irrationally available by huge means, and I expect at least one session, and I expected to get it so far, to discuss at one session the spending of funds allocated to the Coordination Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, while the Serbs in all three municipalities are at risk, are at maximum risk, while the Serbs at KIM are at maximum risk, while from that or similar centres go those stories that need to intimidate Serbs, the vast resources of the state of Serbia. I expect that if it does not, then I will ask it as a parliamentary question, to deliver a reckoning and a spending of funds for each dinar that is allocated to the Coordination Centre.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18175	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, following this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18176	I will use the right to report to explain the SPS amendment that I have filed on behalf of our parliamentary group. I was away from the O.R. for a moment, so I didn't get a chance to explain it. So, what's this all about? I suggested that the total expenditure of the budget be increased by three billion dinars from 429,764,926,000 to 432,764,926,000 dinars, so it was three billion dinars that I moved from that remaining budget surplus and thus increased expenditure and tried to deploy these three billion in a way that the Assembly could accept, because I think this proposal is reasonable. How did we propose to deploy these three billion dinars? Here to say just one more note, I don't think it's justified enough that we have that category of remaining budget surplus and that this amount of 3,234,000 funds remains in the account of the budget at the end of the year, or 31.12, and is then transferred in 2006, and then with other revenues based on the sale of non-financial assets and repayments of loans used to pay off the public debt, especially since this surplus is about 29.5 billion dinars already covered by the obligation to repay the principal and repay the loan, i.e. a loan of 5.5 billion dinars. What we suggested. First, to increase donations to the Farmers' Pension Insurance Fund by 525 million within the Finance Ministry, which corresponds to one half of the unpaid pensions for farmers. You know we have 20.5 pensions not paid, and that totals about 21 billion dinars. We wanted to show pensioners, farmers a gesture of goodwill, to move towards reconciliation with farmers on the basis of outstanding pensions, and especially bearing in mind the current situation in agriculture and disasters that occurred to us in the beginning of spring, floods, these days we had big storms, damages to the farm facilities, etc. I don't think it's a big budget spending, but it is a big benefit for the peasant pensioners. Secondly, we have proposed that the Ministry of Economy increase subsidies for the economy from five billion to five billion and five hundred million. So five hundred million more than it was proposed in budget rebalancing. Why? Because we have a real slow process of restructuring large businesses. The large companies employ an extremely large number of workers, and it is obvious that the process of restructuring and then privatisation in these companies is taking place slowly and it is quite clear that it will not end by the end of 2005. As Mr Dinkic's exposure announced that in 2006, we would have reduced subsidies for the economy, with five billion to approximately three billion and 700 million, we felt that we needed to give additional air to these large companies with these 500 million dinars, improve their economic position, and, above all, the socio-economic position of workers, and thus save time, i.e. buy time for their restructuring and privatisation. So, to hold out until the end of the year. Some of them will likely be restructured by the end of 2005 and this will be an additional reason or justification, or a simple possibility of reducing subsidies in 2006. We think that this 500 million is necessary to bring these procedures to an end and to have a more clean situation, both economically and socially, in large systems and large businesses. Thirdly, we have seen that this government and the adoption of the Law on the Credit and Export Insurance Agency have decided to support more seriously this export activity of our economy. Among other things, we have one budget item, which is about 200 million dinars, to approve a loan to finance export production. We think that 200 million at this point is not enough to seriously encourage the economy to export activities, and we felt that this amount should be increased by 300 million, i.e. that we have 500 million dinars planned to approve the export credit in the budget's rebalancing position. There is no doubt that the external trade deficit is something this country will deal with in the coming years. Any incentive for the export economy actually means reducing the external trade deficit, increasing the competitiveness of our economy on the European market, the possibility of exchange of labour, goods, services and capital will be increased, so that from this, in any case, no negative effect can come, but on the contrary I can only expect positive circumstances on this basis. Mr. Hranislav Peric and I have also defined that within the Ministry of Agriculture, we increase the amount from nine billion 433 million to 10 billion and 433 million and that, therefore, they are increasing by a billion dinars for subsidies. We have identified by the amendment that this amount of a billion dinars is used for the following purposes: the purchase and storage of wheat. You have that story -- 5,000 dinars per hectare of wheat, 750 dinars per tonne of stored wheat in warehouses. But in any case, it is necessary to provide financial assistance to those who will buy out the wheat and store the bought-out wheat from peasants, we must not be incorrect to farmers whom we did not say in the autumn - do not sow wheat, because there will be no ransom, there will be competition, etc. The market will decide on the quantities of purchased wheat, but we simply have to bear the burden of that so-called. A strategic agricultural product, to help them overcome this situation, especially if the harvest does not go as planned, or as expected, primarily because of weather conditions, etc. The wheat is a strategic product, and if we don't do this, then we'll get to the point that many farmers won't sow wheat in the fall, so in 2006, we'll have more serious problems than we do now. Furthermore, this amount should be allocated to one extent and to the compensation of the raspberries and cherry producers, based on unaccepted products and low purchase prices. There are, therefore, two problems - a low ransom price, and we heard in the debate that many quantities of raspberries and cherry, even at these low ransom prices were not sold, or there were not those who were willing to pay even such a low price. So the good tribe of raspberries remained in the raspberries, a good portion of the cherry tree remained in the orchards planted with cherries. This is one of the damages that peasants have suffered, and have not been able to adapt in the past, and thus organise to benefit some of their production. So it would be reasonable of the state not to destroy the production of cherry and raspberries, at least partially to compensate for the damage to the peasants who suffered it in this campaign. Then, the damages on the crops and objects caused by natural disasters: floods, storms, cities, etc. You have the Kragujevac area and throughout Serbia, floods in the Vojvodina area, many agricultural facilities are damaged, many plantations are practically destroyed. We'd have to help these peasants overcome this crisis, get ready for the fall set, especially for 2006. I do not believe that the need to further explain the need to help agriculture, especially since we have one announcement that in the coming years we will increasingly reduce subsidies to agriculture, and we will expose more and more peasants to a single market mechanism and one marketing game, for which they, I think, are not fully prepared. Furthermore, under point 5, and within the framework of the Ministry of Capital Investment, we proposed that 500 million dinars also increase funds and that this amount be used to revitalise the road network in western Serbia. The analogy is the government's commitment to budgeting one part of the funds to revitalise the travel network in southern Serbia, and western Serbia is one of the most significant tourism potentials Serbia has. Those who, at least once, were in Loznica, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Užica, Novi Varoša and all these municipalities, saw a wealth of tourist offers, but saw both catastrophicly bad roads and such a condition that it was simply impossible to reach these tourist destinations. So, take advantage of this tourist potential that is objectively present in Serbia. That is why we have proposed that for the road network - highways and regional roads here, 500 million dinars are increased, in order to enable this network, so that tourism business and any other activity in western Serbia, in this significant area, will be brought to normal. Most of the municipalities in the area belong to the so-called so-called so-called area. Devasted municipalities, which are in very difficult condition. I am sure that the government will soon have to bring a similar programme for this area, as it did for the Bora area, Kragujevac, Vranja etc. Finally, under point 6 of the tourism, trade and catering ministry, we proposed that subsidies to the tourism economy from the current 280 million dinars increase to 455 million dinars, i.e. 175 million. Why? Because tourism is Serbia's development chance. We recently passed the Tourism Act. Under the law, we have a defined Tourism Development Fund. Unless we give significant signals this year to tourists that the state from the budget, through the Tourism Development Fund and through subsidies to the tourism economy, will help develop tourism, then we will discourage those tourist workers from entering in 2006 with more serious projects and more serious ambitions, with those projects that will be financed by both commercial, or business banks, in collaboration with the European Investment Bank and also with the budget. We have so far had very low resources in this position of tourism, i.e. the incentive of tourism. They're almost gone. I admit that this is a good step by the government to increase the funding on the item, so it came to 280 million, but objectively with 280 million dinars, it is not possible to seriously encourage the development of the tourism economy, and we have therefore proposed that, in the context of this item, subsidies to tourism enterprises – instead of 280 million in budget rebalances, an amount of 455 million. When you add all of this up, it's these three billion dinars we've proposed to increase the budgets of that so-called. parts of the remaining surplus, the remaining surplus being in some amount of 234 million dinars and used as proposed in Article 2. The budget rebalancing proposal for public debt repayment, together with other incomes to come and be on the budget at the end of 2005. So I ask you, when we vote on amendments and the general bill on budget rebalancing, to bear in mind this argument that I have given on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18177	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Amendment Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. It relates to the financing of the Ministry of Culture. To facilitate the monitoring of pages 30. Section 19, Function 820. It is an economic classification of 451, where subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations are and are the sum of 2,134,000 dinars. The amendment was given to increase to 2,585,000 dinars. This appraisal of 15 million dinars is intended for the "Brothership" Niš News Institute under the Law establishing news outlets, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 53/95, and the amount of 35 million dinars intended for the Republic's Diffus Agency, as well as the amount of two billion and 49 million for RTS, which will be used under the government's special programme. It is that by reducing state television, this government is putting pressure on editorial policy, first of all this house, which, according to the proposed solution, would have to reduce the number of workers and thus try to do a little better and more quality work by their criteria. Obviously it's much better for RTS to provide a better way of funding, because it's obvious that RTS and the people who run RTS don't have a quality plan and a social programme to take care of fired workers. What is reliable is that since 1 August of the current year, more than 1,070 workers are planned to be fired on RTS, to lose their jobs. People who work there, say, in the technique with night work have between 12 and 13 000 dinars of salary, but therefore, the director of RTS, Mr Tijanic, has made it possible for himself to have a discretionary right to decide on the basis of the variable on who will have the salary, so that individual editors, or individual journalists, have up to 300,000 dinars of salary, above all I think of journalists that he brought with BK, Natasu Miljkovic, Branko Nevistic and some others who and how they have a significant place on RTS. Is it in the interest of all of us to keep more than 1,000 workers out of work, judge for yourself, but I will remind you that a year ago 800 workers were out of work and it would not surprise us so much that people who are already working on RTS every day notice some new faces, some new workers, so that many workers are out of work, and during that time Mr. Tijanic receives new workers to work. The day-to-day is unknown and there is no reliable information as to how many employees are employed on RTS, because they either give information that about 5,000 employees are employed, but they always exclude whether it is RTS Novi Sad and RTS Pristina or without it and thus manipulate the public as many employees of RTS. Before 5 October, the opposition criticised the so-called To Seselj's fee, it was a subscription. Everyone promised that these subscriptions would no longer be, that we would simply compromise the standard of workers, and I would remind you that it was a time of economic sanctions and a time of war, where it was really hard to finance all those obligations and restore the country after the war. Then all the parties promised you wouldn't be taxed. After October 5th, they immediately took that tax away. Now there are two options, to be over the PTT account or the power bill, so that here now the tax is returned to the small door. I'll remind you that several years ago a law was passed in this assembly under which a mandatory subscription was made. Remember that they promised that these subscriptions would be no more, then several years ago they regulated the obligation to subscribe, and then that same law passed this assembly, but they still don't respect it and the subscriptions are gone. Now she's being re-announced. They're obviously disoriented, they don't know where they're going, what kind of vision they have and what they're supposed to do next. In this way, by amending the SRS, we want to increase instead of 2,134,000 thousand to be 2,585,000 dinars. We do not want so many workers to be out of work, that Tijanic is running some special editorial policy and thus enables only those people who support the political, although his policy is very strange, earlier supported by the JUL, and now supports the DSS. Is there an equation you estimate yourself. Even here, Serbian President Boris Tadic made it possible for him to be on RTS a few days ago when everyone was watching music, entertainment festivals. That's when the show was seen with two percent of the population. Do the people of the Democratic Party know that? Probably their team follows it, so when it does allow the president of Serbia to be a guest at RTS, apparently in some term that has not been followed at all, it is seen, but if it were someone from G17 or from the DSS, the term would probably be much more visible and much more favourable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18179	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18180	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the amendment submitted by the SRS, or by the MPs of the SRS, is to spend as rationally as possible these funds that have been achieved by some call-success. Article 6 provides for extra funds to be allocated to something clearly government, given that it cannot solve the problems it faces in the longer term, Serbia is trying to put out the current fires that are emerging, so let's say in this government's attempt to calm down or reduce the problems in RTS, the fact that the government in this way confirms, as well as the previous one, that it is unable to solve the problem when it comes to this national house. If we were naive enough then we could believe it was the continuity of incompetence. But there is no naivety in politics, especially in the government. Obviously, this government has a tendency, as well as the previous, to financially hold on to an informative house called Serbia's Radio-Television. When someone financially depends on someone, then they must accept their terms as well. Obviously, we are witnessing a new phase of the media campaign conducted by this government, with the condition of financial resources. The announcement is that financial problems, when it comes to subscription and subscription, will soon be resolved, with an estimated 300 dinars per piece of the television subscription being estimated. However, from what is made as a decision, to the realization, we always know that it is a great divide. When it comes to the realization of this project, we must be aware that the percentage of the charges and some other services are not at an enviable level. This section, which the government now defines as RTS, is an indicator that a future information policy will be conducted. It'll go the way the finance minister wants it to. If the finance minister shows RTS as a superman, as a miracle worker, he's long ago recognized as an expert, then RTS will benefit from that. If he fails to show it that way, and proves by his own actions that he can't even be close to such a vision, then RTS will have reduced resources. Just as counterpart Kragovic spoke in his previous address about the rational spending of funds when it comes to additional funds for the functioning of the SCG Army, we Serbian radicals have in mind that there will be additional funds for the costs that arise, as after this signed capitulation, the SCG Army has gained a new role. The role will be seen to ensure the security and security of NATO pact convoys during Serbia's occupation. Clearly in the contract, of those 17 points, one point of the contract says that the safety of convoys when moving through Serbia-Montenegro's territory, Momira Markovic, as you could hear, must be done by the SCG Army, as well as by the police. Look at the absurd. The minister here talked about all the problems we have about funding the SCG Army and only once referred to a vast portion of the assets that are out of the control of the Republic government, and hence the republican parliament, which refers to the sale of the SCG Army's assets. A simple man can't believe it. Huge assets, millions of amounts have been collected in the account of a commercial bank, controlled and managed by so-called "money". The SCG Army Reform Fund, which is contrary to and contrary to the Constitutional Charter, was formed and functioning, thus also illegally manage and dispose of the funds achieved from the sale of part of the SCG Army's assets. We are here thinking about how to improve financial conditions for the functioning of not only the military, but also the police, especially in the area of southern Serbia and in the protection zone, and on the other hand we have something that is an enclatan example of unaccounted for and the counter-constitutional functioning of an organ called the Reform Fund. At the head of this fund are certain people, on the basis of will, opinions, or definitions of so-called. The Council of Ministers. And instead of the minister to say -- yes, we, of the existing surplus that we have achieved in one voluntary way, of additional tax, of the additional burden, we allocate certain resources to improve the working conditions and functioning of the SCG Army, but we are asking, we insist that the funds that are in the accounts of commercial banks, which have the Army Reform Fund, be placed under the full control of the Republic Government, may also be the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because it's the logic of things. The logic of things says that from budget funds used by the SCG Army, 90% of the costs are financed by the Republic of Serbia, while 99% are controlled by another member of the state community in the same fund. How? Well, through your emissaries, through your people. In doing so, we must not forget the responsibility of those who have been appointed and proposed by the Ministry of Finance, because it does not mitigate their responsibility to tell us that these funds are in place, and it is announced after a period of one year. The logic of things requires thinking about why the surplus puts out the current fires, why don't these surpluses and certain means solve long-term certain problems that this country faces. Obviously, there is also an element of marketing in this whole redistribution of funds. Apparently, the government is willing to display the deployment of these funds in order to prepare the ground for the next election. Gentlemen, don't lose sight of -- every government, including this one, over the past period, the rules are the same or similar mistake, by seizing the pensioners, the socially endangered category, tossing out huge funds. Neither the pensioners nor the socially endangered population category benefited, and the parties participating in such governments regularly and by the rules suffered defeats in the elections. Gentlemen, you cannot with these marketing procedures, with a media campaign like this, achieve the effect that Serbia needs as well. Serbia needs to have a stable defence at the moment, which means stable sources of funding are and stable funds are provided for the functioning of the SCG Army. Serbia needs an objective media house called RTS, not to be a private front, so that according to the party key, while you determine who will be the director and who will be the editor-in-chief, it is virtually shown on this rich Serbian television, Serbia under which honey and milk flow, and Serbia is increasingly sinking into misery and ruin. Serbia is threatening a real danger, due to lack of funds, to endanger its security. (President: Time.) ) And finally to tell you what you - coalition partners are most interested in, if you do not provide enough resources to function in the SCG Army, then your allies - NATO occupiers will be at risk. At least take care of it, so that it defines you to allocate more funds to the SCG Army, and thus also to the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18181	National MP Bosko Ristic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote against budget rebalancing, because we believe that the budget, in this way, is, in fact, denying many of the rights of the users of the budget, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, through institutions that are direct or indirect users. This budget is not balanced, there is no balance between income and expenditure. On the other hand, the surplus in the budget was created in one artificial way, with the funds for individual institutions reduced, their normal functioning is disabled, and on the other hand a surplus is artificially created that will not do any good to the citizens of Serbia. That's the example, for example, with the judiciary. This year, about 80 million dinars were taken to the judiciary, with this change of budget, although it has growing obligations in its organisation towards Serbian citizens. An example is the minister of justice's decision to introduce bilingualism in the Presevo and Bujanovac Municipal Court and prosecutors, to lead procedures in Presevo and Bujanovac in Albanian and Serbian. This means that the Albanian judge can also demand that the process be conducted in the language of the national minority, and also when it is in a situation of citizens of Serbian nationality to conduct the procedure. The minister of justice made such a decision on July 5th this year. This requires some funding, and I'll explain to you that this is a matter of budget rebalance. So, by a secret decision, which he did not announce, the minister introduced bilingualism into courts in Presevo and Bujanovac, he set out a way to implement it, and in the last position he says, "the funds for the material costs caused by the implementation of these commitments will provide this ministry at your specific request. "The funds involved in this decision and will likely come from some secret budget, since the funds are not foreseen in the budget rebalancing. See the item relating to Serbia's judiciary, and you will see that no funds are provided for this. I ask another question, essentially: from whom does the minister hide this decision. The DS doesn't need to be hiding. We stand for the rights of national minorities. On the other hand, either he did not honestly accept this decision, or he wants to hide the source of funding for this decision, or he hides it from his constituents, supporters or coalition partners, or from all those who support this government. I ask the finance minister to explain, from which funds will be financed by this decision by the minister of justice and whether he knew about this decision, whether the government knows about this decision or if there is some other intention of the minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18183	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. We know well how a budget surplus was created and what the finance minister talked about almost two hours ago. Today, Mladjan Dinkic has full cash registers, hand-shares and hats, as he likes who he likes. But what our reality is and what the finance minister is responsible for, it is a great lack of poverty and poverty for the citizens of Serbia. This amendment to Article 6 of the Rebalancing proposal requires an increase in the amount allocated to the Republic PIO Fund. Tax duties have resulted in the flow of money from citizens' pockets into a budget that only the finance minister has completely and no one else. Do not invite Dinkic to the famous Radical Minister Lazu Pachu. He took care of the state register, but he didn't come up with an economic repressive method to rob his own people. He contributed to strengthening the Serb army's then-to-be by buying weapons and equipment, unlike today's G17 Plus experts, who almost turned our army into civilian protection. Principle, sell the tank and buy the cans in a month for the army to eat, will destroy our entire defense system. With this amendment to Article 6, we propose to replace the amount of 73,032,500,000 with 83,032,500,000, thus increasing by 10 billion, which would be used to pay pensions and disability. If the Ministry of Finance has already taken a lot of money from workers, entrepreneurs, peasants, patients, students, and then it's time to get it back through this fund. The country's liabilities to pensioners from employment relations, disabled people and pensioners who are receiving a farm pension would be somewhat reconciled. Of these total defined funds, a huge percentage goes to the reconciliation of PIO obligations, while about 5% wastes on material costs, including salaries of employees, maintenance of infrastructure, labour use, official cars, etc. Speaking of employees in Serbia's interior branches, the last time you raised their salary. It's a question that people who work there have asked you, and it's a period of two years. As for the pensions mentioned in article 7th, which I submitted to the amendment, Finance Minister and Minister Lalovic, known as the half-minister, with the G17 Plus electoral list, together create the status of future pension-inhabited insurance companies. Thus, an army of unemployed after a privatization in Serbia, most of which were in years hoping to retire at 63 years old, will be deceived and left on white bread for another two years. What is also obvious, and I don't know if they have any knowledge about it and representatives of the finance ministry, or I'm the minister, since a lot of people are moving around, a large number of families in Serbia live precisely on pensions from their oldest households, because they have lost their jobs in a younger order. Some company went bankrupt, some bank was liquidated, someone became a technological surplus, someone took a miserable social programme of several thousand euros and today they have nothing. Their only job is to wait for Grandpa's pension. All we can think of is a case from the village of Glogovac near Jagodina, when the daughter-in-law kept her dead mother-in-law hidden for nearly half a year so they could live off the old man's pension. Such morbid cases are certainly still in Serbia and are merely a reflection of the situation in which Serbia is with the budget "sufficient". By accepting this amendment, it is likely that the minister, at least somewhat, would crush the social storm that has prevailed over the government of the Republic of Serbia. Statistics is one thing that Mladjan Dinkic told us a lot about, but reality is quite different. The story of Emperor Trojan should be instructive for all those who read their own praises here. We from the opposition publicly express what we think of Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister and his tax policy. Trouble is for MPs of the ruling coalition, who know well that because of Dinkicevic's move of daily Pat rating to Serbian citizens. They all in the Serbian government have to keep their mouths shut. Only if they go undercover to some hill, they dig a hole and tell what they think of the finance minister. Finally, when the minister brought us back to history, and explained to us that Knyaz Milos had financial accounting at the time of Mileta's rebellion, the final account, which was actually a bag of ducats under his bed, then he should go along as Prince Milos himself, dress well, so he could go from village to village, to fairs and markets, and go into the worst beer, ask the tradesmen and peasants how to live and what they think of some Dinkic, but make sure they don't recognize him. Therefore, the increase in resources for PIO will improve the very difficult position of a very large population in our society. If there is no money, take it from a number of agencies that waste taxpayers' money in vain by doing nothing. Also, I would like to address the MPs of the National Assembly, and in relation to the case of workers of the Paracino Tax Administration branch. As for concrete workers, this case went public three weeks ago, the press, "Blic", "The Voice of the Public", titled "Dinkic, has given out notices after Paracino. What's this about? A group of eight workers, on this occasion I will not read the names of newly admitted workers, or workers who were fired on June 30th, or obtained the status of unscheduled persons, and these are persons from 16 to 30 years of employment in the tax administration. Everyone has passed a professional exam for work in the authorities of the state administration. In particular, it is two persons with a high level of expertise, two persons with a higher level of expertise and four persons with a medium professional approach to the economic direction. Five new workers were admitted to their posts, all of whom are members of the G17 plus, that is, as former taxpayers of the Tax Administration say in the letter - no one has passed a professional exam for work in the authorities of the state administration, in a permanent working relationship they were admitted on the same day that they were fired above. All workers are members of the G17 Plus or their husbands are high-ranking party officials. Now we are wondering if someone should get a job in the tax administration's bodies should become a member of G17 plus and whether this is a recommendation for EU entry. Is there anything like this possible to do there? That's probably what experts know, and it was my duty to bring this case to the public. Just to point out that tax administration workers spoke to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic three weeks ago, then to the director of the tax administration Vladimir Ilic, and to this day they have not received any answers. The solution signed by Vladimir Ilic specifically cites the reason why these persons are unscheduled, so it says - the said regulation has made changes in the organisation and method of work of the ministry and the abolition of certain jobs, which has led to a reduction in the number of employees needed to carry out certain tasks. It is said that according to the procedure carried out, employees were unable to deploy to the tasks that correspond to their professional capacity in the same body, as well as to other authorities of the state administration, so it is decided as a dissident. So on the same day that it was found that there were no jobs where this extra worker would be employed, new persons were hired and those from G17 plus the political party. This seems to have become a practice in Serbia, since we also had cases like this in the Tax Administration, or branches in Užica, so we heard the other day and in Kruševec, Paracin is another city in a row, and so it will likely be in many other cities of Serbia. He spoke about it, Milovan Radovanovic, an SRS MP, is again talking about Paracino, and the visit of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic to local self-government and the G17 Plus Municipal Committee. So Mladjan Dinkic passed a certain amount of donations to local self-government, but the local communities that became beneficiaries of these donations are precisely local communities from where G17 Plus functioned. Already mentioned, the local community of Drenovac, hence health minister Tomica Milosavljevic, the local community of Cepura, is the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Predrag Markovic, although I do not believe that he personally had the influence that these funds have been allocated. Maybe it's the courtship of local self-government, but it doesn't matter. The third local community is the local community from where Councilman G17 plus in SO Paracin is from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18185	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Section 5, section 6, refers to the press co-operation office. It is an office that is later opened, so far there has been no and I express the principle of the SRS's view that with offices, funds and agencies, which are only burdening the budget of all Serbian citizens and increasing the isolation for the work of state authorities, public spending is increasing and directly affecting economic movements in Serbia, it has to stop. I'd like to say that the surplus that was promoted by the minister is still just one media trick. The fact is that the foreign debt of the state is so large that there's no talking about the surplus. The fact is that we have a downturn in production, and with this kind of production, we won't be able to service these debts we currently have, and obviously, the government's intention is to continue to be in debt. We expected from the SRS, since we are aware that by introducing a value added tax we have the surplus in the budget, we expected that this budget rebalance would bring back the economy through tax cuts, possibly through some investments, which in some recent past did not prove to be a good way, but tax cuts should have followed. It is obvious that tax duties are too high for the economy and for the citizens themselves. It is obvious that the indifference of the economy is growing, that these tax burdens cannot monitor Serbia's economy, that the situation is very bad. We still have a downturn in economic activity, and all of this had to result in tax cuts, and that's what the SRS stood for and what it expected from this budget rebalance. As for this amendment to Article 6, it was not necessary to continue to increase the state administration by establishing this office. It was quite enough for these tasks to be done by the General Secretariat. It's not about small funds. It's 36 million dinars and the SRS's pledge is in any case a bid to reduce consumption. What the minister boasts about is a decrease in the number of employees by about 10% during this year, apparently falling into the water, my predecessor said. It is obvious that those who are not at the will of the Minister or of the current Government are fired and that their party like-mindeds are accepted. There is no question about the professionalization of the state administration or the modernisation or the word of what they have sworn and what they have sworn for a year and a half on the depolitisation of the state administration. A depolitical law is also proposed. Obviously, the government's behavior isn't in that sense, it's not directed in that direction. I think it would be perfectly normal and quite logical that this amendment that I have submitted, which means reducing the isolation and burdens of Serbian citizens, is adopted and that you finally turn to the promises that you will reduce public spending, not only media propaganda, but also show it in action.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18187	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, MP Miljko Cetrovic, the Representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18188	Dear People's MPs, as could be assumed, Minister Dinkic is not present here today, no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendments tabled on the draft budget rebalancing law for 2005 and, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment - in article 7 of Section 5, to delete Chapter 5.2 of Function 110. Here this function is 110 and Chapter 5.2 refers to the EU Association Office. Given what most Serbian citizens realized that Serbia, or the community, if Serbia-Montenegro survives, will not enter the EU, if it even exists in 2012, certainly by 2012, and the issue is that year. The establishment of an office or the existence of an EU Association Office, and as a MP, I don't know what it is, what the office is doing, how many employees, who submits a report on their work, on what programme they do it, I only see here in the Budget Rebalance proposal that it is worth 38,246,000,000 dinars. This surplus, proposed by the finance minister, and the Serbian government supported and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt, is one fiction and resembles a former story when one of the Serbian young men was, or went to the army, and wrote three more weeks, and then a month after I was in the military, and this surplus was set in half of July, and we have another five and a half months, despite all this being carried out by the SRS MPs to violate the Constitution and the Law on the budgetary system and propose this way the budget rebalance. Serbia from October 5th to this day, and I hope as an SRS MP, and most Serbian citizens, that you will not do so long, without wanting to insult any of the widows in Serbia, is now like a widow's estate or a widow's house. There's no telling who's doing or who's answering, who's representing who. What is the role of the President of the Republic, what is the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister. What is the function of what has been mentioned before me or an hour and a half ago, Vuk Draskovic, who has authorized him to sign what he has signed, how it can happen in the state of Serbia. How can a budget rebalance be proposed, how can there be surpluses, when there is so much debt to pensioners, to farmers who receive pensions. How can Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia go beyond the fact that tens of thousands of workers cannot exercise their basic rights for some years they have spent working and paying contributions to social and pension insurance without having found a solution to regulate their pension internship that has not been paid and that they are now exercising their rights for 35 years of training. On the contrary, through privatisation, through the robbery, these assets that these workers have created are hijacked, and they have given up and, unfortunately, there is neither the state nor the Government, nor the competent other authorities, have any strength, no desire, no will to do anything about it, and that these things don't go as they go. The office, as well as the previous one that MP Antic spoke of, along with many of these agencies that were formed, with many employees, with this alleged government programme to reduce the number of employees by 10% in the state administration, which was transferred to the local administration, but with much more received, or every day that was received in agencies, offices, in ministries, I ask the question, where they can sit more in ministry buildings. But that's the solution. Under the circumstances, I was in the premises or part of the privatisation agency at the Terrace. There are two or three floors of these huge buildings used by the Privatisation Agency. Despite the porter service at the entrance of that building, there are porters on each floor, I don't know what their function is, there are secretaries, secretaries, I'm not talking about security that provides space. And when all this is seen and seen on the other side of the situation are workers in Serbia and peasants, employed in health care, in education, then it is clear that no one cares and cares about him, especially those who are obliged to perform state functions, to take care of most Serbian citizens. They do not care about the citizens of Serbia, but rather care about their parties, care about their relatives, friends and interest groups behind them. As one serious state observes and NGOs, we were in a position to hear the president of Russia Putin yesterday or this morning, and this morning I heard that statement, that there is no place in Russia for NGOs financed from abroad. Unfortunately, in Serbia, these NGOs are a pandan for state institutions, the state of Serbia, and they have been given much more space to wonder about everything that is important to the citizens of Serbia. I'm not condemning all the NGOs, but the part that's been working for years, especially the last two or three years, against the state and the people, and they're responsible for it. And these aren't any organizations, it's a set of individuals who represent themselves as NGOs, they have an unlimited place on the media, both electronic and written, and they try to be smart and directional and state and people. I hope and I am convinced that the first extraordinary parliamentary elections, both MPs and governments to emerge from that majority in this National Assembly, will not continue as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18189	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18190	I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and I ask that in Article 7 of the budget of 429,764,926,000 be replaced by a figure of 432,999,000,000. The reason is very simple and simple. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in addition to the fabricated surplus, leaves three billion dinars in the budget reserve, in addition to all the possibilities for the malversions we spoke of and will discuss until the end of this bill. I asked for an amendment to keep these three billion dinars focused and distributed in these divisions further. It is unacceptable that, at a time when half the nation is starving, when two-thirds of the nation is not working, when the state of the country is disastrous, this much of the funds in the budget reserve are allocated and placed directly at the disposal of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. It can't do that. In all countries that know how to take care of their economies, who know that they care about their economy, about the citizens of that state, it is strictly taken care that the balance between the budget, on the one hand, and the filling and emptying of the balance budget, that this goes on a daily basis, that the economy does not feel. We got into a situation where a few months ago we talked about a 20-billion deficit. Today we're talking about a 32 billion surplus. That means 52 billion. Mr Krasic, the SRS MP, Serbia's citizens above all, as far as I saw the parliamentary majority, explained what gymnastics is and plays to make some phantom 32 billion. With three billion in the budget reserve, Mladjan Dinkic will not separate from those phantom 32 billion, it will not be fictitious, but will be real money, literally made available to one man. I believe that Mladjan Dinkic, if it doesn't come quickly to the election, so to stop it, will literally destroy the country's economy and will bring us to the level of Argentina, with huge responsibilities, fictitious accounts, fictitious money, and we will be in a position that the country will be more in charge than the total cost of its material wealth. That is why I urge honest and honest people in the ruling coalition to vote for this amendment, to draw at least these three billion under the paws of Mladjan Dinkic and to deploy to the divisions in this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18191	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we want to say that the SRS doesn't think that money from the budget should be spent on funding the costs of various agencies. I could end my presentation with this one sentence, when it comes to this amendment, but I will take the opportunity to say a few sentences about the problems which Mr Dinkic, the finance minister, in his reasoning of these amendments and the addition of the law paid little attention, or was not clear enough. I did not get responsible for one question about privatisation, that is, restructuring and preparation for the privatisation of social enterprises, large systems, such as Zastava Kragujevac, RTB Bor, Gosa, First Partizan, large systems that once meant economic and social development throughout the country. Mr Dinkic mentions it as a good solution to bankruptcy over these large systems, with the reputation of how it was done bankruptcy in Sartid in Smederev. When we listen to his explanation, I have the impression Mr. Dinkic doesn't know that RTB Bor is one big system, where the government owns that system. There's no one to make a decision except the government when it comes to the company's work plans. I would like, instead of sending subsidies, to the Government to bring business policy to RTB Bor, which is like a company of capital, a parent company, which has several subsidiaries in its company, such as the copper mines in Majdanpek, copper mines in Bor-jam, Bor-kop, Krimelj, not to list the others. Instead of subsidies, where the part of employee income is barely covered, where contributions for pension and disability insurance are not paid, to provide crafts, to ensure that the government determines the capacities, that the government delivers a physical volume of production for the current year, a plan for the purchase of spare parts and equipment, to determine the effective working time of equipment, or some kind of plan. Finally, to create conditions for these companies to create a new value, to provide earnings to employees and thus meet obligations towards suppliers, to creditors and, ultimately, to the state itself, to the owner who cares that the company, which exists, is making income, not to make losses. I have the impression that all government ministers do not have the same attitude when it comes to what needs to be done with these large systems, and the privatisation process is very slow. We heard from the minister that it might be by the end of next year. It's unacceptable for these big systems to fail. Imagine workers who had recently been decision-makers, made plans, made decisions, were in the old system self-control, where they took care of business development, production, distributed income, and then, through the amendments of the Company Act, became managers through the boards of directors, through the Assembly, the Supervisory Board, to end the government's authorities, introduced a forced administration, or determined their own people who would manage these companies and eventually left these companies to literally wait for some time, I don't know which and how difficult, and time doesn't go in favour of employees, because the equipment of failures, debts are piling up, interest growth. These companies are coming into more and more difficulties, more and more problems. This country has to decide faster one day. I do not need to remind the Minister of the newly adopted laws, when it comes to the Business Society Act, or those provisions that were previously in force in the Company Act, which remain valid, when the Director of the company cannot do anything without the consent of the Government, or the Privatisation Agency. There's no one else to make any business decision, not even a business plan, if the government doesn't do it itself. Or, if all government ministers don't know what kind of decision the government made, so one minister tells one story, another minister tells another story, or they don't know about a deal in the government when it comes to RTB Bor himself or these companies that were once carriers of the development of the economy, economic and social development of the entire state. The second part of the story, which I wanted to mention, regarding the minister's exposure, is the inability to pay off old, large debt and to pay off pensions for farmers. I know, when there's not enough money, it saves itself where it can, and the pensioners are very unhappy, because they have the impression that it's only being saved by them. Imagine the miner who, working for 40 years, separated from his retirement income, that is, under that mandatory Social Insurance Act, when he obtained the condition and obtained the right to pension-inhabitation, now comes into a situation that depends on the generation he is working today, whether his pension will be paid, in what amount and whether it will be regular or not. These pensioners, you have to look at it in this context, they think they've earned that pension. For years, they singled out, worked, these funds were filled, now those who managed those funds, those funds, had to make sure that those funds didn't go to waste, to fertilize, to invest, to invest in some good business, to increase and when conditions -- after 40 years, to exercise the right on the basis of pension-inhabited insurance, not to be questioned. Imagine you now, or who we are in a working relationship, whether we will tomorrow depend on the same logic of generations whether it will work, whether it will be a factory, who will produce, who will create a new value and whether there will be enough funds to pay us pensions or not. There's this logic and justice that we, who work, have to create conditions to hire new generations, to open up capacities to make it better for us. But given the logic that you've allocated part of the pension-involvement funds, why these funds don't invest wisely in some business, where these funds will be increased, and then when you get into a situation to use that pension, there's a place to use it. This is ridiculous. Practically, money is spent, often unintendedly, whether it was the generation that managed the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund or today's managers who manage the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, or the Government. It is wrong to build factories from that fund, develop some kind of production, and that the money, increased by the amount of interest, credit and what is given, is not returned to that fund and that those funds are not preserved, that funds are practically destroyed. I can't bear the dissatisfaction of miners who after 35, 40 or 43 years of internship, working in a mine, producing copper and building this country, now that someone tells them there's no means to pay off their pensions in time. How much bitterness, how much swearing. I can't quote them, but I can't give their dissatisfaction to Mr. Secretary, if you see him and you tell him, because he's not here to listen, that they're terribly unhappy and they don't see the reasons why those who've spent years giving away significant funds can't use the rights they've received. When you take statistics, a man who works on average for 40 years doesn't use pension and disability funds for 10 years. Some die, not collect any pensions. It remains those who use part of the funds on the basis of family pensions, but it is inadmissible to go to that extent. Only in another context as a good example of how it was done in Sartide. The minister boasts, but once told the truth that Sartid at the time he was built and built used two-thirds of Serbia's total accumulation, which is essentially true. So, we RTB Bor workers, working in three shifts, producing 60,000 tons of copper in the concentrate, decommissioning some of the funds in this Sartide, covering those costs, and all the workers who had the battery. That Sartide was sold. What have we benefited from this Sartid sale, whether from the aspect of workers who are now reaching a retirement condition, and there is no pension and that factory sold to someone. Why isn't that part of the funds returned to the pension and disability fund, that part of the funds settles the pensioners' obligations. This is how it turns out no one's responsible. If Mr. Minister says - we can't do it now because we're in a difficult situation, because the generations that worked before us, who ran the state and the funds, didn't work well. Why do you accept these responsible functions to be ministers if you can't work? One who only kicks with his left foot often can't score. He has to kick one leg and the other to be a successful goalie, and this way, he might find someone who can solve these problems on the team, ask for help. But the point is, it's a concept and a process of how to think, how social problems are solved, and not this way to save on those who deserve to get what they deserve, not to save on them. It's unforgivable and it's the hardest thing that happens after already acquired conditions that some rights are used, after many years of working hours, in the difficult conditions of working in the economy that she's been doing, and today she's not working.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18193	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Section 37, function 510, referring to the Recycling Agency. My amendment suggests that this article be deleted. This surplus that's artificially come to us here, and who knows maybe in some other way, someone said all the machines did, or worked, that the minister doesn't know if it's really like that. The Rebalance must comply with the Budgetary System Act. Methodologically, it has to be legal, and it's obviously illegal. Where's the legal basis for all these members? They were thrown from one end to the other, and so it's probably the thought of not being as transparent as you said. Yesterday we spoke about the Treasury Administration and we explained to you in detail that we SRS are against agencies, administrations and all such institutions that are not in line with the rational spending of budget funds. The surplus is the result of a change in methodology. He's not real, and as such, we don't support him. The replacement of thesis was made not to know what the balance sheet is, what the income side is, what the expenditure side is, so this surplus is not real for income or expenditure. We're in a lot of trouble. How do we get it back? The current government doesn't know. She knows she can spend money from such an artificial surplus, so spending on this recycling agency, or waste management, they predict 32 million. The agency is unable to start monitoring all of the problems that we see in Serbia with 32 million. Waste, our garbage is scattered along our roads, rivers, mountains. Our cities are at a low level of purity and as such spread towards populated towns towards the province. When the wind blows a plastic bag and heavy smokes spread and flies like feathers on a plain. This problem will not and cannot be solved by this agency. This problem is solved in a familiar way, by employment, by job creation, by raising citizens' standards, by raising the culture of life to a higher level, by education, by health, by culture, by agriculture, by industry. When we do all this work and put it in the right places, then the waste is out of our hands and it no longer sticks, doesn't lie, doesn't lag where it doesn't belong. The agency is powerless to realize all this. The budget is not current with this so-called. Sufit, it'll be an ugly story in a few months. This agency of yours won't be able to track NATO troops that will pollute our roads, rivers, mountains, airspace. Do you gentlemen know what this agreement means? It's a pure capitulation in a modern way, a democratic way seen in the eyes of all those who bombed us. The wolf is a traitor to the Serb race and birth. He shouldn't have done it, but you who support these agreements are no better than that traitor. Perhaps later you'll put him on an anthem and declare him indecipherable, so he won't be responsible, and he'll enjoy one of his chosen islands and laugh at what he's done to the harm of the Serbian people. As for these 32 million you predicted for this agency, it would be better if you focused on agriculture or specifically what you didn't do, you built one dump in a small town in Serbia, not to spend this money on administering some of your staff. Yesterday you saw in the means of information, but unfortunately not all of us, just individually, as we as the Serbian Radical Party are promised to keep. The houses are built, and the rest of you remain silent and defend this traitor, the Wolf. Why didn't you direct that 32 million to the pensions of our peasants? How long will you take them and always deny them? By the end of the year, you'll probably owe another 100 billion dinars, and you stick debt to debt, and that's when we move towards debt slavery.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18195	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18196	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we listened to the minister while he was in the O.R. when he explained the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. He told us that the budget was so made that it was exclusively in the interests of the citizens, that we should respect various objective circumstances, that no one has enough money, so there is not enough in the budget to settle everything. But when the expenditure side of the budget is more carefully looked at, it is concluded that the amending and supplementing the Budget Law is more than wasteful. More than wasteful, especially when it is seen that parallel organs are being created to carry out the work that the ministries are supposed to do. So here we have the Recycling Agency, for which we need to separate, no less, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so from the citizens, 32 million dinars. The question now arises, if we have a competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so we have the Environmental Protection Authority, so now we have the Recycling Agency, whether we really don't have enough money or some wasteful behavior, and it explains to citizens that it is not able to pay enough for agricultural producers for wheat, that they have to register as agricultural households in order to have the right to various subsidies, such as returning more VAT or regressed oil, milk premiums, etc. It's always said we don't have enough money for it. When you look at the Budget Law, when you look at what money is spent on, the question is, is it really that and is it possible that we don't have money for something where we need it over, and we have money for various agencies? In particular, when it comes to recycling agencies, I'd like to see since it exists, whether more potential raw materials can be obtained from recycling or not, has there been an increase or not? According to all the indicators we have, the only result that this agency can make is 32 million dinars of cost. There is no improvement in recycling, nor do we see the results of the agency's work, except when the money is spent. When we define ourselves and pass various laws that we set up agencies, before ladies and gentlemen MPs from the ruling majority press a button to set up an agency, let them think about whether we need it over and think about who should pay for it. Serbian citizens certainly pay for such agencies, and they are not for you and therefore voted for them because of them. They voted for you because you promised them that under your authority it would be better. When you spend money, think about whether or not you're making those spending money better for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18197	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zankov, the SRS is eager to help the citizens of Serbia, because it is obvious that Dinkic has no help, has submitted amendments to the budget rebalancing proposal, above all to demystify a alleged surplus that does not exist at all, but has been shown fictitically. We are starting to criticise this proposed rebalancing, and you can see from the daily and Sunday press that appeared yesterday and today, and ever since Dinkic came out with this proposal, economists throughout Serbia are laughing at everything he said. Some even, not in a funny tone, but indeed the truth, said the "starter master", because you know for a long time he is in the same status as science, and some even referred to prominent professors from the Faculty of Economics from Belgrade and other Serbian cities, I think of sources in that newspaper, and came to the same conclusion as we -- representatives of the people, Serbian radicals, that this is total nonsense which Dinkic has been playing and what he talked about for more than two hours, comparing himself with the greats of Serbian history, such as Lazar Pac and Milan Stojadinovic. If this were an orderly state, such as it is not, if the state authorities and institutions were to deal with one of Serbia's most painful peoples and citizens, and it is a matter of crime and corruption, then it would probably not have occurred to anyone to set up a fund for some anti-corruption council. I would like to propose this text to Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, just like the predecessors, because it is a good method, a maneuvering space to deceive the public. Like, there's a commission that has its own membership, that's going to investigate something, come out with the data. They meet in the government building, the Media Centre, even in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because they finance themselves from the budget, issue statements, some unquestionable knowledge, etc. In fact, it is one big deception, because the biggest criminals, as popularly called "Serbian tycoons", are directly in line with Serbian authority and with Minister Dinkic, and Vuk Hamovic, and Vojin Lazarevic, and bankers, and protected and unprotected witnesses, various criminogenic structures that in the method of Dinkic's rule and the way he manages public finances found space for themselves, to continue to be rich in folk torture. That is why my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is quite justified, as the Legislative Committee says in its famous manner "rightly possible", but essentially and logically consistent in every way, because it is amazing that someone is throwing money away, I said a few days ago in the Kragujevac City Assembly, when I was talking about the deception and lies that Dinkic tells workers in our city, that he is acting in a drunken billionaire's manner. Is he really in a situation to waste himself on people's money like that? It's not. If that advice should work, and we don't think it's necessary to set up some special advice, but that's what competent state authorities should do. In the Serbian Republic, there is a special sector dealing with this -- UBPOK, and that this council has five plus five, plus one and a half million dinars, then 300, and 500 thousand, and 160 and all 12 million 460 thousand for prizes, bonuses and other special expenditures. Will it be rewarded amongst themselves if they come to the fantastic knowledge that someone has abused the preferences received and deceived the EU's sugar countries and that Labus was involved in this as Deputy Prime Minister? Will they be rewarded among themselves if they tell us something that has come to us in their undisputed work and decision-making The Serbian Parliament's Survey Committee, led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, that these two Serbian tycoons, godfathers and close friends of Mladjan Dinkic, have abused what the government has given them through the theft of electricity, and through the jobs they receive, rob Serbian citizens. I mean Hamovic and Lazarevic. Will someone from that council tell us the amazing and fantastic truth if they reveal to us what Serbian radicals know and why they are opposed to every hiducia, as it was tried 15 days ago in the Surcin municipality, because "Surcine" and similar to it should buy for the country's future complexes in the municipality of Surcin. Of course not. That is why it is unnecessary and pointless that there is such an authority or advice, a commission, however you will, when the competent state authorities, the interior minister, the prime minister should make an effort, and above all, the judiciary he has to, and will one day when radicals take over power in their own hands, unburdened, depolitised and professionally, to do their job. Such people must be found in prison and behind bars, nice by the Criminal Code each to get as much as he deserves because he robs, kidnaps citizens and commits the worst possible type of crime. The budget itself and this projection of this rebalancing, except that it is pointless in terms of weathering that it is a surplus, and in fact in the right, real sense, and in practical terms it is not, because 22 pensions are owed to farmers, are owed two and a half pensions to pensioners who are in this regular pension fund. A huge amount is owed to unpaid workers. Dinkic owes the Kragujevci, and this is his deal with Veroljub Stevanovic who trusts him blindly, who is no different from Dinkic at all, because when he believes such, it means that he is absolutely the same, who believed in the name of Dinkic, and I mean Stevanovic, deceived the citizens of Kragujevac, or workers, that he will get the promised tranche. What is today - July 21st, and otherwise Orthodox holiday, you also know and know Serbia's citizens well. Which is the promised date for all aid to be paid to the poor Kragujevci, according to the list Stevanović made with a group there, in which she did not want to participate the SRS, because the workers of the PKB Transport and those of the "Red Star" factory and many others not covered by such a kind of help. No, he says, he can't respect that deadline now, because the city suffered from the weather, so some intervention aid is being referred to. And then he says it's like his grandfather's or his private fart and he says, "Here's 10 million, take care of it over there." In a state, someone can't behave like that and manage the money of all Serbian citizens, who are making it hard to pay for it, because they have no place to pay for it. Then someone boasts and says, you know, I came, and that Dinkic tried, only of course all citizens laugh, and economists especially, that through tax repression and he succeeded, and through the application of such a law on value added tax, which taxed basic life supplies, to fill the budget register. Then all of these debts are on one side, and he says he has a budget surplus, which only physically exists and depends on how he books and shows it. And then he boasts and says, well, I'm going to start from these pairs, that is, start certain projects that are lies and deception again, and youth apartments, and we talked about it a few days ago, and we threw $5.5 billion worth of money into some Export Promotion Agency. And all projects in a row of doubtless character are really one method of money laundering and a new kidnapping under its steering stick. We think that this triangle is Dinkic, Labus, Jelasic, today as a political factor, they represent nothing and you all know it very well, but in financial terms, one great evil for the citizens of Serbia and that it is necessary to keep telling people until the moment that the conditions are obtained for all people to be freed. Pensioners now face Dinkic's invention that pensioners' debts, i.e. those who have acquired agricultural pensions, through all other citizens, have been paid off through bonds since 2006, through an increased internal debt among the population, because people are forced to borrow from a variety of business banks with very expensive loans. They are not large amounts and range from 1,000 to 10,000 euros, but citizens must take them under an effective interest of 16, 17 per cent or more, where, in order to survive. And with all that to finance then a council that will deal with corruption, and the council will finance itself on the basis of the draft budget given to them by the minister, which is one of the biggest corrupters in the country. Where there are and where you will be more hypocritical. That is why MPs need to think about this, not only the MPs who are in the opposition but also the MPs who make up the governing structure, and accept this and all the amendments to the SRS, because the way we have been transposing the budget, not falsely showing the surplus, is in Article 2 of the amendment, which I also submitted on behalf of the SRS group MPs, is balanced, or balanced. The way that every dinar in each item is clearly said that our intention is honorable and that we are responsible people who know why money is needed today, where they should be directed and that under this authority and under the behaviour of Dinkic, who is not here even when we talk about amendments, citizens from all structures cannot expect any improvement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18199	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18200	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS has invested a number of amendments pointing to the falsified statistics of the finance minister, with which it went before the MPs and with whom it went public. The question arises as to how the finance minister was given the authority to place funds from the budget on the foreign capital market. The question arises, what is today the structure of foreign reserves, which is the percentage of foreign reserves belonging to exports of the economy, which is the percentage from the source of the population. This concludes that the National Assembly of Serbia is buying foreign exchanges from citizens, and the bank itself determines a course when buying foreign exchanges from citizens, which is incompatible with monetary authority. It is known that we have business banks that are authorized to trade jobs and that banks pay regular taxes, and the NBS has taxed on these jobs. That tax evasion goes to hundreds of millions. The issue is raised to the Ministry of Finance, why no final budget account has been submitted since 2000 and why the budget has not been audited, but the finance minister himself has authorised and controlled himself. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the amendment I submitted to Article 6, in Section 31, Position 410, Serbian radicals consider the number of agencies to be large and that they cost a lot of taxpayers, so that agencies should be interrupted. The funds invested by agencies, which are not effective for Serbia, are needed to be channelled there in the economy. As for surpluses, it should be said that no country in transition had a budget surplus. How and why does it turn out that Serbia has a budget surplus? We believe that these funds, which are planned for the agencies, should be abolished and funds directed towards more effective jobs. First of all, the economy, production, pension payments to pensioners, the payment to the police and the army of certain funds, in order to improve the material position and these people who work there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18201	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18202	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, first of all, I must be referred to by the Legislative Committee as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I, last time in the debate on the law, i.e. on the Tax Administration Bill, on the Tax Administration, pointed out that the Legislative Committee is delivering to us a report that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. In fact, we have again received a report from the Legislative Committee, which states that certain amendments are legally possible, and then the second part says - the Committee proposes to the National Assembly to reject amendments. According to our Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee cannot refuse amendments, it can only indicate whether some amendments are in accordance with the law, whether they are legally possible or not legally possible. This stands well in Article 45 of our Rules of Procedure, which are the competences of this committee and I ask that the future committee work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As far as the budget rebalancing law is concerned, I'm not going to repeat what's already been said here. So, SRS MPs, through amendments, and in principle, have pointed to all the shortcomings in this proposal. It's a bit tasteless, declassified to talk about the surplus, about some extra money that the Serbian budget has, and if on the other hand we have big debts from the Serbian state to all the budget users. I won't be here right now, because of the time left, and I see that the desire to end this as soon as possible, I won't talk about pensioners, both employees and farmers, not even buying agricultural products, I won't talk about the military, etc., all that's already been said. I just want to take a few minutes and ask the question again, which I've already asked here on three occasions. Unfortunately, neither then nor now the minister. I didn't get any answers. I was expecting a reaction from either the Ministry of Finance or this assembly, however, there is no reaction. The problem is the Tax Administration at Uzica. This is my fourth performance, or exposure to that tax administration. Today we have seen that this is not a lonely case, that there are several such examples in Serbia, that is, I fear that this is something that has become a regular phenomenon in Serbia since this government has led Serbia, that is, since G17 plus holds this portfolio of finance. In fact, in most of the tax administrations in Serbia, party policy G17 plus is being implemented. I have spoken in the previous three times about the problems in the Tax Administration of Užica, and I will now look very briefly at these problems and ask for an official answer, i.e. to ask this as a parliamentary question, because according to the Rules of Procedure it can also be done by way of the session of the Assembly. (President: It is accepted to be recorded according to the stenogram. In the IRS at Uzic, I've already said that, strange things happen. First, the director of the tax administration has not passed a professional exam and it was one of the assistant finance ministers last time commented that he did not need a director. However, the IRS Regulation states that a professional examination is necessary for the director of the tax administration, in addition to the other conditions, such as high professional law-preparation or economic professions, five years of work experience, knowledge of computer work. So it says he must have passed a professional exam. If a person who is not from the tax authority is admitted, he must, if I know it well, pass an expert examination under some internal rule. The director of the tax administration in Uzic, again for the information I own, I have asked on three occasions so far to verify this information, there is still no expert exam, or he took it somewhere in June, he has failed to pass, and it has been more than a year since being the director of the tax administration. The second thing, the director of the Tax Administration in Uzic, placed the head of forced collection and the right of man convicted of the crime of abuse of official office in a company where he previously worked for a year in prison, conditionally for three years. As such, he is in that place even promoted and replaced by the director when he is absent. It clearly stands in Article 6. The Law on Labour in State Authorities states that one of the conditions which must be given to a person admitted to a working relationship, i.e. the State Authority in paragraph 5, is not to be convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of at least six months or for a criminal offence which makes him incapable of performing business within the State Authority. It's clear here. There is a judicial verdict, however, the person still performs the job of the head of forced collection and publishing law and replaces the Director of the Tax Administration when the Director is absent. So he's also the deputy director. I'm interested in checking this out for what it's about. It's clear to me why, but to say it here publicly. It's about people, or members of the G17 Plus party. They only along that line, by that function came to those places, simply as politically similar party G17 plus personnel. I also don't understand, when entering a working relationship it is necessary to carry out a check at the competent district court whether a criminal case is being conducted, whether the person is under investigation. At the moment of this person's admission, it was under investigation, and I'm curious to know if a review was carried out at the competent court and what kind of information was received. Someone falsified the data. Is there anyone in the court or any of the tax authorities in the IRS? Also, the same face was promoted to calling counsellors, and it had previously been called tax inspectors. It has skipped the calls of an expert associate, an independent professional associate, to skip calls, although the rule is clear that it cannot be called over without certain conditions. Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure states - a direct number of calls by employees are obtained if they meet the conditions laid down in the law and if two years in parallel are assessed by the evaluations, in particular, expires or expires. So two years in a row has to be evaluated to get a next call. This is about a person who skipped two calls without these terms. To sum this up, so I'm asking questions to check, to answer me, and of course to all MPs, does the Director of the Tax Administration in Uzic have a professional exam and does he have an obligation to pass that expert exam? The second question, could the Director of the Tax Administration in Uzic be at the same time the director of the NGO Center for the Development of Local Initiatives, if that's what it's called, and I think that's what it is. The third question, is the Head of Emergency Payment and Prosecution Law criminally convicted, and if so, how can he be employed by the State Authority, and especially at the tax administration's executive post? Fourthly, were the data requested from the district court at the time of admission to the work of the person concerned, were criminal proceedings against him, and were such data falsified and by which side?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18203	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has always had a responsible relationship with agriculture and has always respected the difficulties of this economic activity, especially in recent years when our agriculture has come to a difficult situation and especially this year when the major disasters, especially the heavy rains, have caused floods, and in recent weeks and city clouds, major damages, and for these reasons this amendment has been proposed, which has the objective, and in line with the budget rebalancing and the surplus shown, to increase the assets of the Agricultural Budget, and above all, the funds intended to subsidise agricultural production. So that's division 10, function 420, economic classification 451. We suggest that the total subsidy funds instead of 9,433,000,000, amount to 13.689,000,000 dinars. These funds are primarily used by the end of this business year to subsidise agricultural production, as well as to cover just great damages in the area of agriculture. I'll try as soon as possible to explain which positions we propose more significantly to increase, above all, the milk subsidisation position, the industrial plant. This year's agrarian budget provides for subsidies in the production of sheep and cow milk of about 3.1 billion, which would cover milk depletion with 3.8 dinars per litre and 4.5 dinars in mountainous areas, and at the assessment of the Ministry of Agriculture 3.1 billion would cover this, and in terms of subsidies and industrial plants, it is planned at 1.4 billion dinars, primarily for subsidising sunflowers, soybeans, tobacco and inlets or pumpkin seeds. We suggest that this item increase by some billion and 400 million dinars, because we think it would help and increase, above all, the production of milk as a significant food in human consumption. Indirectly, it would help to increase the livestock stock, the number of cattle and sheep, and we also believe that increasing the premiums for industrial plants will stimulate this year, and especially production next year, because certainly the definition of agricultural producers and our agriculture is precisely greater in the production of industrial plants, especially soybeans and sunflowers. Furthermore, what I want to comment on as an item that we are asking for to increase significantly is exactly the premium for wheat, buying and dying of this year's wheat. We know that this year's budget envisions about a billion dinars, and we suggest that the amount increase by two billion dinars not full, to a total of two billion and 900 million. We believe that this amount would absolutely allow the purchase of a minimum of 250,000 tonnes of wheat, at the price that wheat producers and propose for this year, which is somewhere between nine and 10 dinars, and at the same time would be possible with these means, that and the planned means of predominant or subsidisation, and defined by the regulations adopted in mid-July, so those resources could also be covered by those funds that the government has defined by these subsidy regulations, so five thousand dinars per hectare, and that only applies to those who have registered agricultural holdings and if agricultural producers have reported that production. So it is, however, a small amount of funds, a small number of users of these funds, and we are therefore thinking that, given this year's generation, given the problems that wheat producers have and the real threat that next year we will not have enough wheat for our population, that by seizing these funds and participating in the purchase of wheat, the state will help to ensure the regular diet of our population and that we do not single out in the following year the foreign currency for the import of wheat. Furthermore, what we propose by this amendment is that more significantly increase the regression of artificial fertilizer and fuel. All agricultural producers know that over the past year and a half, the price of oil used by agricultural producers has doubled, and the price of artificial fertilisers has also been doubled, although the Ministry of Agriculture's figure predicted that oil and artificial fertilizer be subsidized at 400 000. We propose to triple this amount, because it will enable regular production in our artificial fertiliser factories, and also allow regular supply of oil products, i.e. timely provision of the necessary amounts of oil derivatives for the next agriculture campaigns, because we had a situation that before the harvest there was a shortage of diesel fuel in the market. Certainly within these proposed positions, we advocate to remain the amount planned as a measure to increase the quality of milk, meaning that the amount of 800 million dinars, which was planned in the budget last and this year, is withdrawn by the rebalance, to remain. Because all the analyses carried out in terms of the examination and control of milk and milk products, as a food supply on our tables, say that in a significant extent, increased contamination, primarily of saprofit microorganisms, is due to inadequate husbands and accepts milk after husbands. And precisely by increasing the quality of milk, it was planned to provide a greater number of cooling devices in buying places. So, if it raises the quality of milk and milk products and we think, above all, that in order to protect the health of our population, it would be good to keep this item and this position in the budget. Finally, although a small number of MPs are present in the Hall of the ruling coalition, I suggest and ask that by voting for this amendment you, representatives of the ruling coalition, will be given an indirect piece of work for our agricultural producers, to slowly get used to the larger means of subsidising agricultural production by the state, because this is something that is the rule in the countries of the European Economic Community. We're in favour of getting there as fast as possible, so we're getting used to our farmers getting more money, just for that production, from the state. Certainly, we representatives of the opposition, first of all, representatives of the SRS, will vote in favour of this amendment and that is why we have proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18205	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Esad Djudjevic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18206	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short, few words, this amendment requires that part of the funds, which is otherwise foreseen in the five billion in this surplus, be transferred to Serbia-Montenegro from the Republika Srpska budget, exclusively for the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18207	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted the amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the search of the Bill's proposal in particular, since the proposing representative Mr Mladjan Dinkic does not want the final word, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby order Thursday, July 21st 2005, so today, at 15.05 p.m., as a day for voting. Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[After break – 15,20]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin the vote. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a voting quorum. The use of the electronic system has shown that 129 MPs are present in the hall. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. For 127, against 71, they did not vote 23 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become: amendments to Articles 2 and 28, which, in the same text, have been submitted by Parliamentarian Susan Grubjesic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, amendment to Article 7 submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic and amendment to article 7 submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 122, 29 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 121, they did not vote 32 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 124, seven of the 220 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and together by the MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 122, 10 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 122, seven of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 118, it did not vote 11 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 10th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 120, there was no vote of 8 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 112, it was not 13 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 107, they did not vote 22, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 105, they did not vote 22 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 106, they did not vote 24 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 106, it did not vote 23, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 106, they did not vote 23, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Djordjevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 105, they did not vote 24 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 103, they did not vote 24 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 104, they did not vote 42, of the 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 106, 23 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 106, they did not vote 22, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 104, they did not vote 43, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 106, they did not vote 24 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 105, they did not vote 42 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 36th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 106, they did not vote 23, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 103, 47 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 103, 27 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 105, 30 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, 29 of the 224 MPs did not vote against 103. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, against 106, was not voted 24 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 106, 22 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 44th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 106, 22 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 105, it did not vote 23, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 46th amendment, essentially in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 105, there was no vote of 23, of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. For 127, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. The decision to amend the Retirement Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees for 2005, (b) The Decision to amend the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers for 2005, (v) the Decision to amend the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2005, (g) the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Serbia's Health Insurance Institute for 2005, (d) the Decision amending the amendments and amendments to the National Employment Service for 2005, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, in principle. For 128, against 18, they did not vote four out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. As the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 128, they did not vote 22 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 1, 6 and 9. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 106, they did not vote 42 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, they did not vote 42, a total of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 106, 25 of the 149 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 106, they did not vote 24 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 43, a total of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 43, a total of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Belic, Velimir Stanojevic, Miodrag Stamenković, Dusan Mrvos, Zoran Ćirkovic, Vladan Vukicevic, Radic Jokovic and Dejan Rajcic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. For 18, against 87, they did not vote 42 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 104, 20 of the 145 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 45, a total of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, they did not vote 42, a total of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, they did not vote 42, a total of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, there were no 38 votes, a total of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, there was no 39 vote, a total of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, they did not vote 24 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 35 of the 139 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 36 of the 140 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 33, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 36 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, he did not vote 41, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, they did not vote 44 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, they did not vote 43 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Branislav Blazic submitted to the 6th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 47 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 48 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 45 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 105, they did not vote 43 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 103, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Esad Djudjevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 46 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 45 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 45, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 44 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 43, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 43, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 as a whole. For 128, against 19, he did not vote one out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget. Having adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to agree on the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund's 2005 Retirement and Disability Insurance Fund. For 130, against 17, he did not vote one out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's pension and disability insurance plan for 2005. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund's 2005 Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. For 131 against 16, they did not vote two out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for farmers for 2005. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2005. For 129 against 18, two of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance of self-employed activities for 2005. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Office for 2005. For 131 against 17, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2005. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2005 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service Financial Plan for 2005. For 130, against 17, he did not vote one out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the 2005 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. Thank you. I also thank the ministry ladies who have been present all these days, now you're free to go. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Stop duty, SECURATION AND CHOICE OF THE COURT OF COURT FUNCTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-1492/05. For 148, it did not vote 73 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-1492/05. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Batocina, number 118-1494/05. For 148, he did not vote 71 of the 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge's office as Judge of the Municipal Court in Batocina, number 118-1494/05. I would like to put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the post of deputy district attorney, number 118-1493/05. For 148, they did not vote 73, a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the post of deputy district attorney, number 118-1493/05. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, No 119-1104/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, No 119-1104/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect grozda Arnaut for the District Court judge in Kragujevac, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic. For 146, against 73, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly has chosen Grosda Arnaut as judge of the District Court in Kragujevac. Since we have made a statement on the contested proposal set out in this proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, number 119-1104/05, without a proposal to elect Jasmine Simovic to judge the District Court in Kragujevac and Zoran Markovic to judge the District Court in Zajecar, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. 79, a total of 225 MPs, did not vote for 146. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, with correction number 119-1104/05, without a proposal to elect Jasmine Simovic to judge the District Court in Kragujevac and Zoran Markovic to judge the District Court in Zajecar, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision on the Court's Israre, issue 119-1254/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, No 119-1254/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Anicic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the judge of the Municipal Court in Bor. For 128, v. 22, abstention 68, was not voted by 8 of the 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragana Anicic as judge of the Municipal Court in Bor. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljiljana Panic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec. For 124, against 22, a abstentioned one, was not voted 80, a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljiljana Panic as judge of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec. Since both candidates under this proposal have been declared individually by the National Assembly, and since they were the only candidates in the Proposal for a Decision, there are no conditions set out in Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure to vote on the motion for a decision in general, because there are no undisputed candidates in it. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1394/05. For 147, there were no 80 votes, a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-1394/05. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision on the Court's Israre, with a correction, number 119-1477/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with a correction, No 119-1477/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nela Vujkov-Printovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. For 72, against 75, abstentioned 72, did not vote 7, a total of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Nela Vujkov-Printovic as the municipal court judge in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vladimir Nastic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. For 149, v. 74, they did not vote four out of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Vladimir Nastic as Judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jelena Wildovic-Zivkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, as the judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. For 148, against 75, they did not vote four out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jelena Wildovic-Zivkovic as Judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljiljana Lekic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, as the judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. For 148, against 73, 5 of the 226 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljiljana Lekic as Judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Tatjana Matkovic-Stefanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, as the judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. For 148, against 75, they did not vote four out of 227 MPs. I find the National Assembly has chosen Tatjana Matkovic-Stefanovic as Judge of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, number 119-1477/05, without a proposal to elect Katarina Bozovic to judge the Trade Court in Uzic, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. For 150, against one, did not vote 76, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, number 119-1477/05, without a proposal to elect Katarina Bozovic to judge the Trade Court in Uzic, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a decision on the selection of judges, No 119-1690/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of Judges No 119-1690/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Mihajlo Rulic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Slobodan Vukkovic, as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 126, against 22, it did not vote 78 of the 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mihajl Rulic as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Natas Rašet, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Temerin. For 109 against 22 abstentions, 83 did not vote 11 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Natasha Rushett as the municipal court judge in Temerin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nikola Gvozdenovic for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Subotica, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 144, against 75, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, of the 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Nikola Gvozdenovic as judge of the Municipal Court in Subotica. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-1690/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 149, 78 of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-1690/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. I'm putting the motion to vote on the election of judges, number 119-1610/05. For 150, it did not vote 77, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1610/05. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a choice of judges, issue 119-1104/05, 119-1254/05, 119-1394/05, 119-1477/05, 119-1690/05 and 119-1610/05, I ask if you agree that all the adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision on the choice of judges. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 77 of the 224 MPs did not vote for 147. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1040/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1040/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vojkan Simic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Bosko Ristic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the president of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. For 19, against 88 abstentions, 110 did not vote 9, of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Vojkan Simic as president of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18209	I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Gordana Mihailovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Bosko Ristic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zarko Obradovic, for the president of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. For seven against 101, with 88 abstentions, 27 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not elect Gordana Mihailovic as president of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Nada Mihailovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Bosko Ristic, as president of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. For 125, it did not vote 99, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Nada Mihailovic as president of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. Since these were the only candidates in the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, there are no conditions for voting on the motion for a decision in general, because all the candidates in the proposal for a decision were challenged, so they were voted individually. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1253/05. Since MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1253/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, is in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, shall be decided individually, and on a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not contested shall be decided in general by public vote. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Obradovic for the President of the District Court in Valjevo, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic. For 187, against 26, it did not vote 11 out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Obradovic as the president of the District Court in Valjevo. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Slobodan Ljubic for the President of the District Court in Vranj, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. For 33, against 73, abstentions 103, 15 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not select Slobodan Ljubic as the president of the District Court in Vranj. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Tacic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the president of the District Court. For 142, against 68, it did not vote 15 out of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Tacic as the president of the District Court in Prokuplje. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljiljana Vejnovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the District Court in Sombor. For 145, against 72, 9 of the 226 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljiljana Vejnovic as the president of the Sombor District Court. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zdravka Djurdjevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. For 58, against 19, with 50 abstentions, did not vote 98 of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Zdravka Djurdjevic as the president of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Velimir Vlajkovic for the President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. For 140, against 76, it did not vote 9 out of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Velimir Vlajkovic as President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-1253/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 148, it did not vote 78 of the 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-1253/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1322/05. Since MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-13322/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is in line with Article 179(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. I am putting the vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Goran Savic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Bosko Ristic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade. For five, against 94 abstentions, 108 did not vote 16, a total of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Goran Savic as president of the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade. I put to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Glisic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipality's Court of Justice. For 142, against 73, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 223 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Zoran Glisic as the president of the Municipal Court in Bolovac. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Zorica Jovanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Bosko Ristic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Bor. For 60, against 90, abstention 61, was not voted by 11, a total of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Zorica Jovanovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Bor. I am voting on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandra Odavic-Mak, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Krasic for the President of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin. For 62, against 91, with 58 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Aleksandra Odjavić-Mak as the president of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Vesna Milojkovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Despotovac, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. For 37, against 93, with 77 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Vesna Milojkovic as the president of the Municipality's court in Despotovac. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Danica Mihajlovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Bruce, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic. For 121 against 20, a abstentioned one, was not voted 78, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Danica Mihajlovic as the president of the municipal court in Bruce. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Gordana Andrejic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic for the President of the Municipal Court in Tristenik. For 141 against 69, 9 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Gordana Andrejic as the president of the Municipal Court in Tristenik. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Redzep Ademovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Tutin, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Petar Jojic. For 29, against 68, abstentions 104 did not vote 18, a total of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Recep Ademovic as president of the Tutin Municipal Court. I put to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Zora Jamusakov for the President of the Municipal Court in Bačka Palanca, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. For 59 against 69 abstentions, 77 did not vote 15, a total of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Zora Jamusakov as the president of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Petar Mohan for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic. For 193, against 21, six of 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Peter Mohan as President of the City Court in Novi Sad. I would like to vote on the proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Slavica Maksic Maksic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Zarko Obradovic. For 31, against 93 abstentions, 84 did not vote 12, a total of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Slavica Maksic as the president of the Kovin Municipal Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Svetlana Gaco for the President of the District Court in Pozarevec, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic. For 148, against 62, the two abstentions, were not voted nine, a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Svetlana Gaco as the President of the District Court in Pogorevec. I am voting on the proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Miroslav Lukic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Veliko Gradište. For 120, against 21, it did not vote 79, out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Miroslav Lukic as the President of the Municipal Court in the Great City. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Slavoljub Miletic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. For 54, against 21, abstentioned 60, 84, a total of 219 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not select Slavoljub Miletic as the president of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. I am putting forward a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Nikola Mudrenic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Ruma. For 84, against 70 abstentions, 56 did not vote 11, out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Nikola Mudrenic as the president of the municipality court in Ruma. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Borislav Pupavac for the President of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Bosko Ristic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. For 122, against 90, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Borislav Pupavec as the President of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect for the President of the Municipal Court in Priboj Bosiljka Palibrk, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Slobodan Vukkovic and Boiško Ristic. For 74, against 111 abstentions of 25, it did not vote 11 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Bosiljska Palibrk as the president of the Municipal Court in Priboj. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aco Vukicevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Cačka. For 187, against 21, it did not vote 13, out of 221 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Aco Vukicevic as President of the Municipal Court in Cačka. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Masic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Sapac. For 66, v. 68, abstentioned 79, did not vote eight out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Dragan Masic as the president of the Municipal Court in Sapac. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1322/05 without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 149, they did not vote 72 of the 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-1322/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1476/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1476/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Markovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Zajecar. For 143 against 69, it did not vote 11 out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Zoran Markovic as President of the Municipal Court in Zajecar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Janicevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Jagodina. For 60, against 68, abstentioned 72, they did not vote 22, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Dragan Janicievic as President of the Municipality Court in Jagodina. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1476/05 without the contested proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. 98 of the 222 MPs did not vote for 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts, No. 119-1476/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1691/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1691/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljubisa Radulovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Slobodan Vukovic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, for the President of the District Court in Užica. For 40, against 95, abstention 51, they did not vote 34, out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Ljubisa Radulovic as the President of the District Court in Uzic. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1691/05, without the disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 148, against 69, three of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, No 119-1691/05, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts No 119-1040/05, 119-1253/05, 119-1322/05, 119-1476/05 and 119-1691/05, do you agree that all the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as one legally-technically united act - a decision on the election of the President of the Courts? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 147, they did not vote 73 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect Republic Public Prosecutor No 119-1396/05. For 148, it did not vote 70 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect Republic Public Prosecutor No. 119-1396/05. We move to a decision on the draft decision to elect a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, issue 119-1718/05. I note that the MPs Bosko Ristic and Slobodan Vukkovic have challenged Milovan Bozovic's candidacy for district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, but since this is the only candidate in the draft decision, the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure shall, in that case, decide only on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, issue 119-1718/05. For 183, against 28, there were 10 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, issue 119-1718/05. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors, No 119-1395/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, No 119-1395/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. I also remind you that on July 20th 2005, Miroslav Vojnovic, in writing, withdrew his candidacy for district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Pavle Kolar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca. For 177, against 21, it did not vote 20 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Paul Kolar as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Gavrilovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic for municipal public prosecutor in the municipal public prosecutor's office in Sapac. For 41, against 21, with 80 abstentions, 74 of the 216 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not elect Zoran Gavrilovic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Šapec. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors No. 119-1395/05, without a proposal for the election of Miroslav Vojinovic as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, who withdrew the candidacy, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. For 149, 70 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision on the election of public prosecutors No. 119-1395/05, without a proposal for the election of Miroslav Vojinovic as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, who withdrew the candidacy, and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for decisions on the election of public prosecutors, issue 119-1718/05 and 119-1395/05, I ask if you agree that both proposals are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as one legal-technically united act - a decision on the election of public prosecutors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 145, it did not vote 74 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, No 119-1395/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, No 119-1395/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Marija Sušnjevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic, as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. For 124, against 22, it did not vote 72 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Maria Šushnevic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Stojanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 64, against 53 abstentions, 78 did not vote 23, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Dragan Stojanovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nenad Srzentic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin. For 146, against 60, it did not vote 14 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Nenad Srzentic as deputy district attorney at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Miljana Rangelovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Milica Gavrilovic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth. For 139 against one, it did not vote 80 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Miljana Rangelovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ratko Zecevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Vojkan Tomic and Bosko Ristic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Kursumlia. For 27, against 133, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60, a total of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Ratko Zecevic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Kursumlia. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Valentina Brdar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Istvan Ispanovic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. For 135, against one, two abstentions, did not vote 83, a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Valentina Brdar as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Tamara Čegar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Istvan Ispanovic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. For 108, against six abstentions, 77 did not vote 28, a total of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Tamara Chegar as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Djordjevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega. For 126, against 77, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Aleksandar Djordjevic as deputy district attorney at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Požega. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision, in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-1395/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. 76, a total of 222 MPs, did not vote for 146. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, No. 119-1395/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. I remind you he's a member of 63. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office provides for the Republic Public Prosecutor to take an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mr. Slobodan Jankovic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to take an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18210	I pledge my honor to protect constitutionality and legality in a committed, safe and impartial manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18211	I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Mr. Slobodan Jankovic on your behalf and to wish him much success in his work. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The proposals were tabled by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Group, plus Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. For 187, against one, they did not vote 24 out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the addition of the motion for a decision and the amendment, submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. For 200, it did not vote 14, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this motion for a decision, with the addition and correction of that proposal. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. 37 were not voted for by 177, a total of 214 MPs. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. Having made our statement on all the proposals for amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask if you agree to the adopted proposals for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 141, they did not vote 73, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on July 20th 2005, at 8:15 p.m., indicated that the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in such a way that he gave without foundation the right to a replica of MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 65, against 122, 26 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice president of the National Assembly, did not harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. (The session is closed at 5:30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18212	THE NINTH EXCELLENT SESSION OF THE 21st of July 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17:30 p.m. The chairman of Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 188 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. In accordance with Article 84 of the Treaty on the Functioning of 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss proposals for acts on the agenda, which were set up by 84 MPs in their request for the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was called upon by 84 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the ninth extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. I remind you that the proposal's representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, at a session of the National Assembly on 20 July 2005, informed that the government is withdrawing from the procedure a proposal for a conclusion on the selection of the most favourable bidder to carry out an external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which was established as the second item of the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2005. In this way, for the ninth extraordinary session, the agenda with only one item has been established: 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law establishing a public undertaking for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the establishment of a public enterprise for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas – you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Radomir Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18214	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, the government has tabled a bill to repeal the existing NIS law. During this decision, we were guided by the following reasons: Serbia's government, its next reform programme in the energy sector, under the Energy Act, which regulates the activity in the sector, has formed three new companies -- one company and two public enterprises in the oil and gas sectors. As you know, at the beginning of October 1st this year, these three companies will begin to operate. Since NIS has so far been in business, functioning and organized under the NIS Act, three new companies have started to operate since 1 October of this year, in line with what I said, the NIS Act should be repealed. It's in front of us now. I am taking this opportunity to, regardless of this fire and fire and more because of the public, point out that our country in the field of energy has really recovered, as they would say, again become a dominant force and a factor on the ground of the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe. That's what the world admits to us. This is one step towards it now. Of course, with a recent visit to the EU, Commissioner for Energy, this has been directly and told to us, and we were the first country from these latitudes to be accepted by the European Commissioner. I can tell you that we're about to launch major procedures in the gas sector, as well as oil industries. Therefore, I ask you to adopt this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18215	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary groups, DS-Boris Tadic, the SPS and this is outside the parliamentary groups – the SDP. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18216	Dear fellow Members of the People, the President-in-Office, in a very strange way, we begin to discuss one of the most important decisions that the Government should make in this mandate, and this is a decision on the fate of a public enterprise, in its own sense immeasurable to this state, simply, one country-wide strategy. So I must immediately express my dissension, first of all, by the fact that we didn't have an atmosphere or an opportunity to hear it at all. In the explanation written for this law, we also didn't get enough arguments to be able to discuss this in a valid way, as I have stated, an important point. Although this bill stems from the Energy Act, where the Government is given the opportunity to conduct a different organisation within public enterprises than before, I want to talk about this issue in the context of the overall fate of this perhaps most important public enterprise, which is of strategic and state importance. So the government has decided to join the reorganisation of NIS. However, the impression remains that the decision has been made at high speed and without prior detailed and serious economic analysis, and which is particularly unusual, without a de-obligation balance, which is particularly damaged, or is the assumption that they are damaged, employees of the NIS on all their grounds. So to be more specific, I mean the interests of employees in terms of their working relationship, as well as the rights through the security of actions. The SDP certainly is for privatisation and is for restructuring of public enterprises. We believe that this must be done as a very transparent, strictly controlled process in the exclusive and maximum interest of the entire state and the employees themselves. The assessment of the SDP is that the way the government started to work this most responsible task is not good, in fact we couldn't clearly hear the precise specifics of how it thinks to solve this problem, both ideologically and strategically, since it is one of the most serious economic decisions, which, as I have already said, is the third time I will repeat it, from both state and strategic importance to this country. So, we think that, although it's formally irrelevant and it's not so stated, essentially the introduction to NIS privatisation, it's a dispersion, and sometimes it looks like an orderly dispersion of NIS. We think it was very important to assess whether at this point and how to access NIS privatisation, whether it was wiser for the process to be expanded through the security of the strategic partner, to make changes in NIS during that time that would raise the price. I think MPs should listen, even though it's the end of working hours, what is spoken of here or no one cares about NIS. It doesn't look like it. However, I believe, on behalf of the SDP, it is much wiser to see if there is a possibility of concessions in Serbia's oil industry or finding a strategic partner and to make good decisions on whether to privatise at this time or wait five years to, as I said, raise the price of the company itself and then see what with NIS. Besides, you know the Constance pipeline will go through these spaces. Is it more responsible to let a privateer take money from that pipeline, because every liter that passes through it in our territory or to see what the interest of the state is from it and how to protect it? That is why the SDP cannot support the proposed law until we get precise answers about the strategy and the way the government thinks it privatises and reconstructs this public enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18217	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this brief law on the termination of the NIS Act is certainly a step towards privatisation and there is no dilemma. I don't see why my predecessor was puzzled by this, so of course after that we are entering a serious restructuring process as a consequence already, it seems to me, three or four years of work just to restructure the largest and most important system in the form of public enterprises. The privatisation of NIS is necessary in the context of all public enterprises and, of course, it will. Everything is very transparent, everything is done exclusively in front of the public in agreement, in cooperation and with the interference of all employees and all structures in the NIS. Nothing has happened so far without employees and management and management mechanisms of NIS knowing and not giving their consent. As chairman of the Privatisation Committee in this meeting of the National Assembly, I see nothing wrong and it seems to me that as soon as possible this law should be passed, just so that since autumn, all the other important and important steps in the restructuring process will be welcomed ready and completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18219	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18220	Of course, the government, under the law that we have adopted here, is the one who has the power to make decisions of this kind and that this government bears the greatest responsibility. As an MP, I must say that I am not satisfied with the atmosphere that exists in this assembly when discussing one of the most important strategic things in this country. I don't know what this atmosphere is about, whether the fact that we have 10 minutes left by the end of today or the fact that it's another item in speeding up this story, because how else do we interpret the fact that the law itself is passed by emergency procedure? So, if you already expect MPs to vote for something, then they should do it with a very clear and very precise argument. The fact that the minister here spoke not for three, four minutes and the fact that no one in front of the government explained to us MPs the broader importance and reasons for this kind of speed when it comes to reorganising NIS go in favor of what I was saying. Of course, I pointed out that the SDP is for privatisation and company restructuring, but I also said and pointed out that it cannot be done to damage primarily employees, because there is no default balance, because the matter has not been well prepared, because it is not known how privatisation is going to go tomorrow, and we agreed here that it is obviously the preparation of the privatisation process. Since it's not a secret and I don't do it at all, I ask that as MPs and that citizens and employees of NIS have the opportunity to know exactly how this process is going to go. Who guarantees us that the way things are now proposed will be functional and that NIS will do better than it does now? Who can guarantee us that it's no better to take a strategic partner to settle things in the NIS in agreement with the NIS people and get the price up like that? Who can guarantee us that it's not better to take a concession, give it to a concession, so that we can extend this process for years? Why do we have to sell everything today? Can someone in this Serbia have a chance to sell something in five years? Is it the state's interest to sell it at this point? It was only, as an MP, that I sought clear arguments that came from the previous good and precisely done economic analysis of the whole process. What's overwhelming is my idea is that at this point I really represent the interests of the Naftagas employees, because I don't think that in any way in NIS account is taken of the interests of these citizens. In my communication with the employees, I heard very different arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18221	The word has the Minister of Mining and Energy Naumov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18222	Dear MPs, I think we've gone a little wrong. We've heard more findings here that actually reflect our lack of information, although everything has been done in a transparent manner. This is about one law that repeals the law to allow the functioning of newly established companies, two public enterprises and one company. It was not done overnight at all, without public knowledge, without the union knowledge, but was precisely a fruit of more than a year's work, and of earlier inter-minors, and with NIS and management, and with a union of formed groups and commissions, where everyone was clearly pictured as needed in today's conditions to make the structure of an oil sector look like. It was fully agreed upon, and the government agreed. We all know that the oil industry is indeed one of the most important parts of our economic system, such as the electricity industry and the oil industry. They are the generators of the development of our entire economy, they are our greatest wealth. Of course no one could question that. It's all done very gradually and, I'd say even, as a school example. This isn't about privatization at all. We're talking about organization, reorganisation, and privatisation and all the other elements of that path. So please focus on the law. It consists of only two members, who are said to have abolished the existing law, as the government has already made a decision on the formation of new businesses. Please, the company formed by the government by its founding act, which will be revived from October 1st, includes the research and processing of oil and gas. That's today's Oilagas. It includes processing and transport phases, covering two refineries – "Yugopetrol" and "Ofta" and one dependent company and covering the necessary actions needed to make these companies work. There are two other public enterprises. One that deals with the transport of gas, the management of that transport, the storage. That's what we have a really big swing ahead of us and the ability to prove ourselves in that area. Finally, the third is the transport of oil. The public enterprise, which includes part of the pipeline from the border with Croatia to Pancheva, the management of that transport and future oil pipelines that will be formed. This was all coordinated and done in accordance with the Energy Act, the Law on Public Enterprises, the Business Society Act and had full consensus when it was adopted. So I say, neither should there be any doubt that the government, or the government and the Ministry, are doing anything that will be at the expense and employees, but on the contrary, and with the unions, it is combined.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-21-0.u18223	Since we're close to 18 hours, we're breaking up today's work. Resume session tomorrow at 10.
