ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20826	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is, as point 11, a new draft - a proposal for a law on external trade in the Republic of Serbia. You are well aware that the current Foreign Trade Act was adopted in 1992 and that the law had experienced its duration for 13 years – this duration is due to the circumstances in which we were found in the 1990s and a strong need for coordination – in order to change the law after 5 October. So, after October 5th, with the formation of the first government in 2001, there was a clear need for the Law on Foreign Trade to be archaic, to be changed, to meet the new needs of foreign trade. However, the strong need for coordination between various actors in foreign trade, which was typical of the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad, is the Customs Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, there are further negotiations with Montenegro on the harmonisation of economic systems, all these circumstances have led to a long delay in the adoption of a systemic and very important law on what I would call the unlocking of the external trade regime of our economy. The first work on the Foreign Trade Act, which I participated in as an expert in 2001, began sometime in the spring, however, was stopped. A few versions were done, they weren't completed because of the heavy coordination between these bodies that I listed, etc. Finally, almost before 2006, in May, we came to a definitive text co-ordinated between our ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration and the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, which is a particular requirement for this legal reform. We finally got to the text that's in front of you. The principles on which this proposal is based are, firstly, that our right to foreign trade must be in line with the principles of the World Trade Organisation and European Union law, simply in order to join this modern economic world. This is also a condition for us to join the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. So, when we observe this law, we always keep in mind these margins set up by these two-one organizations and one counter-indulgence, in terms of defining the external trade regime. The law is based on the principle, on the one hand, competition and openness, and on the other hand - allowing the State to protect the economy when there is a legitimate basis for this, where there are reasons to threaten the existence of domestic economy; when a foreign country leads, through subsidisation, to the privileged position of its producer. in an unequal position of our producers; when a foreign producer goes with a price that is unrealistically low, it performs so-called dumping to actually destroy competition on our market; when there is a threat to the country's balance of payments. So these are situations where all modern states react according to procedures established by the World Trade Organisation, normally, agreed among these countries. It's a pretty wide range of measures that we can react to in an illegal and unfair competition of any foreign country, any foreign specific business. On the other hand, the aim of this law was one essential deregulation and reduction of administration. You all know how many businessmen, ours and those who work abroad, complain about what is unpopularly called paperwork. My ministry, if you can imagine, issued about 12,000 solutions in 2004. From the point of view of the people who did it, it's a huge job and I congratulate them on it. But it's not an ambition for me to have every job tied to my ministry's solution. It is my ambition that business people are free to do their jobs and that the state does not have any particular participation, that they do not have to come to the counters and pay taxes, but to do their jobs, and that the state can react when it is necessary to protect their interests legitimately. So the idea is -- let people do their job freely, don't charge them with taxes, don't burden them with paper. We have many problems between the Customs Act, in particular the Foreign Payment Act, the Foreign Trade Act and the Foreign Trade Act. To bridge the complications that we ourselves have made in the relationship between the provisions of these laws, then my ministry has issued 12,000 permits. Also, in the still current Foreign Trade Act, there are a number of provisions that are archaic, which refer to mandatory provisions of the license agreement, which were typically established in the 1960s and '70s in the so-called '70s. less developed countries to protect themselves from multinational companies, etc. That time is behind us. It's time to divide the world into the East, the West, the Third World, etc., these modern economies don't use it anymore. We got rid of that kind of administration. What was a particularly important principle, it is that the fullness of the legal work, the finished external trade law, does not relate to any administrative act, as it has been so far, so only when you get permission from my ministry, does legal work take effect. No, legal work takes effect when it is concluded in accordance with bond relations. On the other hand, when the state needs records to monitor macroeconomic movements to see if there is excessive imports, if there is excessive exports, if there is a negative effect, let's say, on the balance of payments, then we sublawly regulate the notification obligation. It is a notification obligation that has no constitutional character, not a condition for legal work, but a notification to the state, so that the state can statistically monitor economic movements. The law is written in a language we tried to understand. It is a language which, on the one hand, must have one technical aspect, because it is the rules of the World Trade Organisation; on the other hand, we lawyers are not succumbing to our typical legal jargon, but we have already tried to write the law in a language that is understandable to the businessmen who will use it. Because not every businessman has finished law school, of course, there's an engineer, an economist, so it's important that it's written in an economic language, understandable, and we've tried to make it a short and clear sentence, to make the thought completely clear, next to the language itself, and to clearly regulate freedom of foreign trade. We felt, we are standing in that position, and that is the principle of the World Trade Organisation, that there should also be that freedom that a businessman has in internal transport in international trade. If we want Serbia, especially Belgrade as the capital, to become both the commercial capital and the financial capital of the Balkans, we must give freedom to these companies operating in the whole region of Belgrade so that they can operate with as little paper as possible, as much as possible, more actively and we can help them, not be a burden to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this law finds the right measure between freedom of business, which is needed precisely for these reasons that I have stated, and on the other hand, more effective and legitimate protection of the Serbian economy. I think he's clear, he's modern and he'll serve us. I'm asking you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20827	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is given by MP Goran Jaksic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20828	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a rare opportunity for a law presented like this to be considered in the Assembly as a directly useful law, without any politicization, without some big political story, I hope. We have before us a law that eagerly expects all those who live in this country from their work, and such, thank God, there is still plenty in this country and all those who are engaged in such work that is related to foreign trade. I hope, and I think I share your opinion, that such companies that will deal with foreign trade will be more and more, and this law, if we really consider it here and then hopefully adopt it, will just allow such companies to be more and more. The situation in which we are now does not allow companies that have defined their business primarily towards export, as one of the most significant aspects of external trade at the moment and the most significant for this country and our economy, thus dealing in one real, completely open and freer way, with all possible benefits and benefits that such business with the world, above all with Europe, could bring. I really expect that this debate will first and foremost be directed towards this direction, that MPs, in some way as representatives of the economies of their regions in which they are located, will speak constructively about this law. Again, I don't see any political meaning or connotation attached to this bill right now. That usefulness of the law... At the same time, I am a little disappointed with the relationship of the relevant Assembly Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. I must say, the Committee has never considered this bill before. I am a member of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with other colleagues abroad; I have had the opportunity to witness that this committee has not considered this law, which is definitely and irrefutable and necessary to this country, economy and economy, because there was no quorum. I say that for the sake of the public and for all of us, but I would like to remind you that in the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, the majority has the opposition, and that, given the circumstances, it was the opposition that did not help to create a quorum and that this committee is considering this law, which gave us the opportunity to do so. This debate should remain remembered by businessmen, with joy, because it gives us a real first chance to start with a legal framework of this new quality type, a constructive economic relationship, a relationship of respect in the right sense, and a word with our partners abroad, especially with partners from the European Union, because Serbia is part of Europe and with Europe expects, with the right, progress in the economy, or progress in the economy. What we did not have, unfortunately, all these years, I especially think of the years when we were under sanctions, is this open approach to Europe, that is, co-operation with Europe. In practice, Serbia's estrangement towards Europe was most mirrored through Serbia's alienation in the part of the economy, economy, the exchange of this economy with other economies and other economies. We had a law that, as Mr. Minister said, was quite restrictive, which was not in line with the laws that exist in the world of free economic trade and exchange. We were quite limited by that. This limited not every political party individually nor the policy of this state but precisely what is most important in this country, which is the economy, the production, what bread is eaten from, as our people would say, means what our citizens live on, the ones who voted for us, the ones that we represent here in this Parliament. By voting one of these laws, we will first of all enable those who produce, who live off their work, those who lead these companies to establish a real partnership, the relationship of the usefulness of this economy in collaboration with the world, above all with Europe. That is why I hope, although the unfortunate circumstances of the Committee on Development have not considered this, that the MPs of this House will be able to understand and comment in the right way possibly, if there is room, and repair this law and that we will really have it soon, as one of the most important, most modern and useful laws this Parliament has recently adopted in the framework of legislative action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20829	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, an authorised representative of the DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20830	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the legislative activity of the National Assembly in the area of reform of the economy will be seen as being one of a series of laws that represent the continent of successful reforms. In this high house, we passed a law on bankruptcy proceedings, the Law on the Agency for Licensing of Banks, adopted a very important law which may not have been sufficiently understood by the public, but very well understood by our partners abroad, which is the law where the company's profits are taxed on 10% and we became in this sense the most tempting market. The Value Added Tax Act and a roof law on reforming the economic system, the Business Society Act were adopted, and the Privatisation Act was amended, where the privatisation process was decommissioned and made it more efficient. In the wake of all these reforms, as a whole, there was also a law on foreign trade, as a law that rightly expects a large number of our businessmen to finally break down those plugs and those brakes that were an obstacle to free foreign trade. It is this law on foreign trade that has this basic principle that foreign trade is free. It's one of the most important values this law adopts. What is very important to say, this law on foreign trade, introducing the principle of free trade, makes our businesses what is inevitable, which is strengthening competition. We must face the fact that as a country entering the process of negotiating stabilisation and accession and the conclusion of this contract which is essentially a trade agreement, we are entering into a situation that our businesses must become competitive, have to be serious in an organisational sense, have to strengthen their management and, in terms of their products, become competitive. It's a thing we can't avoid anymore. It's this very law that sends this clear message and makes this story serious. The competitiveness of our economy, in some ways, has been strengthened by the adopted Competition Protection Act, so as I said, the whole system is very logical, precise and clear. All these laws that have been adopted here and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have a clear overall, it is important to note, the trail of these reforms has been very continuous and there is a strategy that we have seen here in the adoption of these laws in the National Assembly and supported. This law on foreign trade in addition to the principle of free trade, as also said in the opening presentation by the minister, introduces a balance, looking at the position in which our economy is located after the changes that occurred and entering the privatisation process in 2000, after leaving a period of strange property relations that ruled in the 1990s, a hybrid system and entering an open market economy where private property prevailed. What is important to note is that it is precisely these measures given to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, looking at the moment, the position and the strength and competition of our economy, can protect this economy and its competitiveness, quite in place. As we see in the reasoning of the bill, they are in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the European Union. What is important to note, when we look at the still applicable Foreign Trade Act, which has been changed practically every year, is the fact that we finally get rid of a kind of state control and state tutorship, a kind of all-seeing eye by the state over business operations. Instead of approval, we enter a period when businesses entering foreign trade, and what is important when our economy gets freedom of direct investment abroad, we get only one registration procedure that is very important, but, on the other hand, does not restrict the economy from freely negotiating jobs, freely investing abroad, and thus, the ultimate goal of each company, increases its profits. That freedom, I say, which is implemented by this law is the highest quality of the proposed law on foreign trade. It is important to note that these protection measures that are provided for here are very logical, and when it comes to possible dumping, and when it comes to the subsidisation of the producer, and when it comes to excessive imports; something that is completely logical and economic at the moment has the right to such measures. It is one freedom given to the government of the Republic of Serbia in creating its economic policy. In the still applicable law, we had those parts relating to specific forms of foreign trade, where very detailed contracts on long-term production cooperation were elaborated. It's just, I think the quality of this law is that he left these things completely free to the parties. He didn't want to keep those contracts in detail, he didn't want to do these things. He also left the possibility and certain privileges for these contracts, but he gave the parties to the contractual provisions and details of the contract themselves. Some things have been kept. I think they're more transparent here, too, when it comes to the transfer of profits from abroad, when it comes to the possibility of billing that's not cash. All these moments that are here in the law are very transparent and are very concrete and clear. As I said, the principle of freedom of foreign trade, the rejection of the part relating to the approval by the competent authorities by introducing the very principle of recording and the clear protection of the Serbian economy at the moment, respecting its competitiveness, is a priority of this law. What is very important after this is that the state, when foreign trade is opened like this, encourages exports with certain measures. It's something we have to do in the next period. I don't think this law forbids it and opens up space for that. This will boost the competitiveness of our economy abroad and reduce the external trade deficit and in some ways push those of Serbia's success and quality at the moment. It is important to note that if we go towards one day meeting all the Copenhagen criteria and being part of the EU, one of these criteria is that the Serbian economy has such competitive power that it can put pressure on the EU economy. This law on foreign trade is on the verge of doing so. The comprehensive system of economic reforms, which is kind of rounding this law, is something the DSS supports in any case in the voting day will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20831	Thank you. The speech is attended by MP Milan Nikolic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20832	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to see the role of Vice-President of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs express regret that such an important law has not been discussed on the Committee for the reasons that my predecessors have said. I think one view of a law that has long-term significance will be denied. We are actually discussing one of the essentials today, I would say strategic laws, which depend on the future of Serbia's economy. A time of years of sanctions has declared Serbia's economics from the international division, and for years the job of foreign trade has taken place symbolically. Returning to the foreign market is a very complex and difficult process, much harder than to first appear in these markets; already others have taken up places, the wolf competition government and we in such a huge offer, where quality, deadlines, target price implies, we need to find our place. Of course, various forms of co-operation have been developed, which, because of many restrictions, could not be fully waved. We know that we have envious production capacities, that they are unfortunately obsolete, but that many of them stand and that we need to activate these capacities, employ them. They do not actually work for reasons that are very difficult, but one of the basic reasons, also very difficult, are many of the administrative barriers and barriers that existed and which are essentially contrary to the rules of trade on the world market. The new foreign trade law comes from the basic objective of regulating foreign trade in goods and services and ensuring freedom of trade in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU standards. The declared principle of freedom of foreign trade should be strongly supported, especially in the part that anyone can deal with foreign trade, in accordance with the rules laid down. In external trade, any economic operator and a natural registered person shall be allowed anything which is not specific to the regulations limited. This law, which is very important, establishes a legal framework that is in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the EU and enables businesses to have smooth access to world market jobs, equal treatment, and I think it is an important and very important newspaper. At the same time, this proposal provides maximum protection for domestic production and is in line with the World Trade Organisation rules, so there are no opportunities for it to be transferred to us. I think the law will speed up access to the World Trade Organisation because its principles are being adopted and we are gaining the status of one of the most privileged nations among the 150-nation families. And we have a chance to adapt these legal solutions faster into Europe than possible without this law. I think there is a chance that a wide range of forms of co-operation with abroad will be provided, which will likely boost the interest of foreign investors more than it is today. The administrative procedure is simplified, there is a smooth flow of goods and services, and I think that foreign trade will increase, regardless of all the previous problems I've been talking about. The analysis of the new law on foreign trade clearly sets out two chapters. First is the freedom to work in foreign trade and second – the restriction of foreign trade. Freedom of external trade is declarative, but very clearly expressed as the right of all entities in the economy, without particular emphasis on how and what sublaws the form of freedom will be defined. On the contrary, the restriction and protection measures and the special regime provide for a large number of accompanying sublegal solutions made by the government and the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, creating a false assumption that the law is restrictive. I think a careful reading of the law can come to that. I think it is very important to develop mechanisms for the implementation of sublegal acts, especially in the issue of quotas and permits, in order to avoid already known problems in bureaucracy, self-will, corruption and the grey economy. It is also necessary to ensure compliance of the provisions of this law with other regulations governing the foreign exchange system of operations, the customs system, the tax system, free zones, technical regulations, standards, environmental protection and sanitary and phytosanitary regulations. I think there is a need to develop specific forms of intervention in external trade, trade in services, primarily intellectual services, retail transport, long-term manufacturing operations, which are increasingly available, etc. All in all, I think there is a good law ahead of us, a law that provides a chance, which frees and represents a good basis for the development of Serbia's foreign trade business, for new investment investments. The most important thing for us businessmen is that this decision-making process and the realisation of jobs is very shortened, simplified and I think export jobs will be much easier than before. The SPS parliamentary group welcomes this law and we will define in the voting day that this law is adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20833	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS and the G17 plus. The People's Messenger Milka Silaev has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bojidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20834	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is rarely a pleasure to have one, according to the experts' estimates, written law come to our assembly. The existing law was very restrictive and it was difficult to work, but there was a time to change and to give a new bill, which is far better, which allows it to work more efficiently. As a member of the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, it was regrettable that we could not agree unanimously on such a good law to be recommended to the Assembly, for the reasons that most in that committee are opposition, and unfortunately, our consciousness is not at that level that when something good is accepted and the opposition accepts it, but I guess it will change in Serbia. The government reasonably interprets and implements the existing law, but the reasonable interpretation of the restrictive law is insufficient to establish a safe reform direction and framework for a key area of economic relations with abroad. This is a key argument that the Serbian government explains why it is necessary for parliament to adopt a new law on foreign trade as urgently as possible. The bill has six parts, 80 members and is modern. The concept of this draft took into account the objection of the representatives of the domestic economy and the profession, but were parallel to the suggestions of the Commission of the European Union. A team from the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has had a fundamental goal of ensuring freedom of foreign trade, which can be limited to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and in line with WTO and EU rules. What does it look like to try to make foreign trade free while at the same time protecting the domestic industry in a way that will not be sanctioned by the civil world? In the first part, which contains basic provisions, foreign trade is defined as cross-border traffic of goods and services. The basic principle is freedom without limitations. Accordingly, direct investment abroad, carrying out investment works, transport of goods and provision of services abroad are also free. We're wondering if it's too liberal. Just at first sight. The legislator provided for a very wide network of protection, both balance of payments and domestic production, from excessive and unfair competition. This ensures a balance between the need to implement the principle of free trade and to ensure the highest possible level of protection of domestic economy and its most sensitive sectors and new industries. This should work through quantification institutions, permits, anti-dumping measures and compensatory duties. In particular, the Government may limit exports in the event of a shortage of essential goods or in order to protect non-renewable natural resources. Also, the government can intervene when it estimates that excessive imports threaten domestic economy or disrupt the balance of payments. So that everything would not look too much like the 1990s, when the discretionary powers of the executive authority were unlimited, the procedure for introducing restrictions was now very detailed and precise. Protection measures are processed in the third part of the law, where there are as many as 33 members. For example, the dumping implies imports of goods into Serbia at a price lower than the normal value of the goods, requiring domestic economy to suffer or may suffer significant damage, i.e. to slow down significantly the creation, opening and operation of the economy in Serbia due to dumping. Therefore, anti-dumping duties cannot be imposed simply by way of the free finding of the executive authority, only if the dumping has done the damage. However, some liberal dogmat could rebel against assessing damage or its domestic economy threats by the executive authority, closing the discretionary circle in a slightly absurd way. In this regard, it is good that two circumstances are nevertheless significantly narrowing down the possibility of the local authorities "forgetting". First, the process of testing for the determination of damage was done according to WTO rule and was elaborated in detail. Secondly, the introduction of anti-dumping duties will certainly be under the watchful eye of the international public. By the logic of things, the same will apply to all the other measures provided for in this proposal. This again gives hope that the equality of all participants in foreign trade and on the domestic market and the equal position of domestic businessmen on the world market will be established, by guaranteeing freedom and equality, which was also the fundamental wish of the legislator. In order to free the theories and practices of the socialist legal system, the creators of new legislation and this law did not want to regulate specific forms of external trade, such as long-term production co-operation, compensatory jobs, re-exports, consigning businesses and other similar solutions. In a time of prevailing private property, this approach would be anachron. But they are one wish, and the other is reality. Due to the imposed inherited situation, however, the fourth part of the law, from Articles 66 to 76, is dedicated to the temporary regimes and measures to be applied as necessary and the longest until Serbia enters the WTO. Why? Because they can be inconsistencies with the rules of the WTO, the EU and the demands of our economy. The only purpose of these provisions is to enable uninterrupted economic flows, despite the rigidity of the Foreign Exchange Act, mainly without special administrative intervention. For example, compensation transactions, goods or services charges will be possible only with the approval of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. Furthermore, the ministry will be able to approve free business abroad if it is estimated to be meaningful. From the point of view of WTO rules, it is probably also problematic to encourage long-term production cooperation. However, the new law stipulates that imports are not subject to customs duty on re-compromisation, semi-products, parts, assemblies and finished products under a long-term production co-operation contract. However, the most severe violation of WTO and EU rules on the ban on direct export incentives is contained in Article 74, which unconventionally states that the Government, in order to improve the export of goods and the provision of domestic services in foreign trade, can prescribe conditions for the refund of customs duties, parts of the train, as well as incentives, especially for the export of agricultural products. Therefore, the proposed solutions should increase foreign investment because they are in line with modern practice and guarantee equal treatment for all participants on the domestic market. The new regulation should improve competition, improve the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, reduce administrative costs. It is indisputable that a wider professional public has been consulted in law-making, and EU representatives, as well as KAFAO, have been included in the finalisation, and respected experts from Germany and France, according to the law. By adopting this law, the responsibility of the government will be enormous and in line with the discretionary powers it has received. It was a real pleasure to read this law. The G17 parliamentary group will give its consent to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20835	The word of the messenger of the people is Bojidar Koprivica; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20836	Dear People's MPs, here we have heard mostly praises about this system law from previous speakers. I agree he's systemic. Just because it's systemic, he had to be more detailed and clearer. In fact, I'm telling you that the law on foreign trade, as it's written, will not allow the domestic economy to have a smooth access to foreign trade, nor equal access to economic operators in the world's markets. Yes, Mr. Minister, a deregulatory relationship has been carried out, I agree, but excessively, because freedom of business doesn't mean that anyone can do what they want, and as regulated by this law, economic operators will be able to do exactly what they want. Namely, the deregulation of relations is too high and there will be a number of abuses in practice and its application will not be a smooth business of foreign trade. In short, I will point out what this refers to and what the SRS parliamentary group has rightly and well-meaningly pointed to. The proposal needed to provide a tax number of tasks falling within the area of external trade, which is not covered by the existing proposal. Certain provisions are very inaccurate and precisely because of their inaccuracy will lead to many problems, and I particularly apostrophe of the abuse of restrictions, for which the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible, as the list of restrictions on goods and services will be determined by the government. The bill does not specifically regulate the provision of domestic services abroad, that is, the deregulation, which will in practice lead to some ambiguities. Not all experts in the area of foreign trade; those in foreign trade are well aware of this, especially regarding the conclusion of long-term business co-operation and co-operation contracts, so there will be major problems in implementation. As regards quantitative restrictions, which limit the value of goods that can be imported over a certain period of time, will lead inevitably to certain irregularities, and could also be misused, especially in terms of receiving quotas, because a person who does not use the quota set by Article 17 must be sanctioned, as the Serbian Radical Party intervened with the amendment to Article 17, and that person who does not benefit from the quota can receive new quotas, but only when time passes, or three years, respectively. The law also needs to set a precise time limit within which quotas may be applied for, and in our opinion, in the SRS' view, that deadline should be 30 days from the date of publication of the invitation to tender for the allocation of quotas. Certain provisions are, as I said, inaccurate, and in particular Articles 1, 4, 12, 42, and not to add any further. As far as deadlines are concerned, license deadlines are very long, so they need to be shortened from one year to six months, resulting in more users getting permits, and the government better control of issued permits. A person deprived of authorisation should not be granted a permit in the next three years, according to the Serbian Radical Party, because it would thus increase the responsibility of the person and reduce the risk of abuse. The Serbian Radical Party believes a period of protection from excessive imports from four to five years should be increased, especially as a temporary protection measure enters the deadline. Also, we Serbian radicals believe that the government must regulate a reduction in the degree of protection against excessive imports, but not when it comes to it, but it must be strictly regulated by law. In the opinion of Serbian radicals, we most well-intentionedly tell you, the reduction in the degree of excessive imports must be at least once a year. In the end, I can say that the penalties prescribed in Articles 76 and 77 are also very high, not appropriate to the economic situation of our economic operators or the economic situation in the country. In that sense, the Serbian Radical Party submitted a large number of amendments to the bill. We believe that MPs in the voting day will adopt if not all of us, then part of our amendments, in the best desire to fix, for us not the best, the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20837	The People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20838	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to congratulate Mr. Secretary on the literary, groomed and concise presentation, because we are not used to it in our public communication and we are not in a position to hear it. It is commendable to me personally that the language in which this bill is written is confirmed by an old good truth that there is no complex question that cannot be defined by a simple, simple and accessible dictionary. Now let me tell you something about the law. The promoter was among the two often conflicting demands, which is not easy to reconcile. On the one hand, he had to respect the principle of competition without which, as is known, there is no successful business, and on the other hand, the promoter was obliged to protect our national economic interests. I think the promoter went after the hand, which is not easy at all, and yet for every commendation, that these two demands will be reconciled by the principle of competition being the principle by which both of these interests are at peace, although it seems to be contradictory. I'll be free to back it up with two places in the proposal. Therefore, it is said - permitted restrictions on external trade, Article 4, and number 4: "The restrictions allowed by this law must not be aimed at or the consequences of distortion of competition between participants in external trade. "So, the principle of competition is taken as something that is in the economic interest of our own country, first of all there, if that, now here is the place of Article 34 -- "provoking or threatening to cause significant damage to existing domestic production." So domestic production is protected, therefore, by our national economic interest, precisely by protecting the principle of competition. Where unfair competition is concerned by dumping, it is perfectly logical and natural that appropriate legal measures must be taken against such unfair competition. Personally, I have only one misunderstanding regarding a certain one, perhaps it could be said, legal gaps, or possible legal measures that would protect us from certain, very serious distortions of our economic interests, as it was in the past. When I say that, I mean that well-known case when former Foreign Minister Mr. Svilanovic provided the Slovenian Mercator here with 50,000 square metres of business space, and in return our businessmen did not receive a single square meter of space in that same Ljubljana. Although there are votes that it was due to some personal interest of Mr. Minister, it is mentioned that his wife is employed by Mercator and that there is a man from his party at the head of Mercator. I still think it's mediate something else. I think that a political relic from the time of Joseph Broz, when it was believed that every great nation, in this case the Serbian nation, must make concessions to the harm of its own interests. I will support what I have said with only one sentence from a book written by Milan St. Protic, in this case a reliable witness, as he comes from the same political camp as Mr. Svilanovic. Before the DOS comes to power, there is a DOS delegation in America and has a conversation with Richard Holbrooke who asks – how will you gentlemen react when it comes to Kosovo's status? I'll quote you now, says Milan St. Protic: "Svilanovic yelled -- free us from Kosovo, almost outside of yourself. "I ask you to pay attention to this "screaming" and this "almost off". It's kind of a political passion, political blindness, whatever you want, which has hurt us very seriously in times earlier, so I'm wondering, and now it's my misunderstanding, so that future legitimate foreign trade operations of this country can protect us from such arbitrary and harmful moves. Of course, this does not diminish my very commendable opinion on the proposal for this law, and, if it is allowed to repeat again, I sincerely congratulate Mr. Minister on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20839	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on foreign trade. What the minister was saying in the opening statement was commended by members of parliamentary groups who support the government and what the minister was saying in the opening statement can be accepted as very correct, without any political evaluations or evaluations. But if the reasoning of this law is read, and even if it is known that the minister participated in this writing, then there will be one entirely different impression and we cannot praise that correctness that was present here in the first 10 minutes when the minister spoke of it. In fact, the current Law on Foreign Trade has indeed been overcome, because of the time in which the dynamics that have taken place in the last 13 years certain provisions have become inapplicable, but I get the impression, reading the reasons for the bill, that such a law has bothered me, I think, the nationality in Serbia, the degree and standard of life and everything else. It's been said that this law is a distraction, I think, for the dawn of a new day. But not to talk any further about it, but to go back to the Foreign Trade Act. Certain institutes provided for in this law are correctly defined and I do not think that I can do otherwise but in the way provided for by this bill. The first member of this bill states: "This law regulates external trade", partly responding to the needs of this bill, but in paragraph 2 states: "The law can, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union, regulate external trade in certain types of goods or services". So here we refer to some other laws, or can be regulated by law, and we don't edit certain things by this law that we might have to do. If this law, when adopted and implemented, answers certain questions and helps businesses in Serbia to launch economic activity, it will be good. However, unless this government has created an ambience and conditions for inclusion, this law cannot only motivate and speed up special exports or imports, depends on which side we are looking. He can enable what the minister said was the wish of his ministry, perhaps the government in general, to eliminate what we ordinary mortals say - paperwork, or to simplify certain things in business in this sphere. In part, it will probably be true, but the provisions provided for in this law will cause some problems. In fact, what is said about the restriction in foreign trade may lead to certain problems in practice and may be a more difficult situation than it has been under the current law. Article 4 states: "Foreign trade restrictions are prescribed, applied and interpreted in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union. "In Article 17, I think, or in another member, we are talking about certain powers of the government or the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. In advance, in Article 4, we teach that jurisdiction to someone else. At the very least, the adoption of this law, or some provisions of this law, gives the impression that there is a capitulation of the legal system in Serbia in front of some institutions and institutions. We Serbian radicals advocate to move forward with the European Union, with the World Trade Organisation and with all international entities, but we advocate that the identity and what makes the country of Serbia remains preserved. When it comes to quotas, and here it says, "The government can prescribe closer conditions for the allocation of quotas," I think that should have been defined by law. This is what Mr. People's MP Bozidar Koprivica pointed out, that certain institutes are not sufficiently defined by this law. So what is said in Article 17: "The government can prescribe closer conditions for the allocation of quotas", it should be defined by this law, to know in advance, that anyone interested in foreign trade can read the law in a clear way, to see how they can realize what they want and what they want to do. When it comes to quota restrictions, I think it will in practice lead to certain abuses, because it is certain that you are in the ruling majority drunk and in love with your size and that you will very often abuse such things. This so far shows practice, if a law is to be passed, which has nothing to do with the minister representing the law, cannot provide the assembly majority, is ready to make concessions on boards or elsewhere, or is done by the prime minister of the government. I am absolutely certain and I doubt that this law will also allow for such an impact in the approval of quotas or restrictions required to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20841	The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20842	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, G17 plus from the very beginning has not supported this government because of the government itself, and today supports it, but because of what this government is doing and what it needs to do, which is important to do for Serbia. That, unfortunately, is often not a pleasant obligation for this government. A team before the G17 Plus party was ready by now and will be ready to support it in these efforts, commitments and difficulties. One of the most important things that we all agreed on here, and this shows also the public polling, is the desire and commitment of this government, and if I remember it well here as Parliament, is the national goal of the Serbian state to join the European Union, to become part of a new world, of a new European civilization, where Serbia must have its place, where Serbia has its place in the nature of things, where it is located. But it should have its place in that community of European countries and by the capacities it has, by the benefits it has, not only in the part of what makes us geographical, therefore, natural beauty, but what we are talking about today, which is production, the potentials that we have in the economy. So the potentials we have in general in the economy, agriculture, everything we often call comparative advantages; simply put, all the potential opportunities this country has. All of these opportunities were lost, unfortunately, by the state of Serbia; it lost during the unfortunate period in which we had sanctions, in which we were isolated. Of course, a lot of things went down during that period. We've lost many of the positions we've had. Now, from the inside, but also from the outside, Serbia is in one form defensive, it looks as if these potentials don't exist. I know, and I think you're here, too, doing this public business, that it's not entirely true. We will also be able to show it through this law, after all. I think that even on the basis of the international gatherings that we have here and abroad, which I have been present with circumstances, the world and Europe, and for me, at this point, let us not blame ourselves, Europe is much more important than the rest of the world, so they have recognised these potentials, sometimes more than we do ourselves. All those who were, a colleague or part of the professional public, at these gatherings are witnesses to what I'm talking about. Of course, these potentials, as potentials within this country, in themselves, or through this positive comment of our partners, have the need to be realised and reach a certain peak. In addition to joining the European Union, which is one of the most important national objectives identified by this country and this Parliament, it is no less important for the government to adopt one contract, an agreement that is directly related to this law, which is an agreement with the World Trade Organisation. One of the most important segments of joining the European Union is that Serbia is able, not only economically but also legally, to join the WTO, because it is something that is most important for the citizens of this country that we represent here and perhaps of crucial importance and for the EU's accession process itself. I'd like to present one piece of information that a good part of my fellow MPs and a good part of the public doesn't know. In the process of joining the EU, we do have a very good will, and I hope that we will not abuse it, to allow us a specific status in these negotiations, above all to start negotiations on association and stabilisation, which fortunately started in this country, perhaps a little later than in these countries around us. Who's to blame, we can talk, but we know what we're late for. But we need to use the benefits we have at this point as a state. One of the important benefits that the EU is providing us at this time is that we have started this accession and stabilisation negotiations and that we have opened the door to join the European Union without making a deal with the WTO. This is usually the precedent that the EU gives us, a precedent that is only given to Serbia so far, that Serbia can enter into these partnership relations, enter into negotiations, and that I will repeat it once again, has not made a deal, or an agreement with the WTO. When we already have such benefits and such privileges as the EU has given us because it believes that something useful can be done with us, something useful to us, something useful to ourselves, then it is an obligation first of all to this home, and it was also the government's obligation of course to prepare this bill and that this bill that opens the door to joining the WTO starts at the earliest possible time and with one legal and quality law. You know very well that the economy, and in the economy perhaps the most trade, does not suffer improvisation, is seeking precise legislation. Of course, the economy and trade require a ratio of quality, supply, demand, price, but at this point in a modern society, where we live, trade and economy require a certain fully accurate legal, legal legislation. So these are not the times of some extreme liberal economy, liberal capitalism where fighting, competition, various kinds of influence, usefulness determined how trade would be done. The World Trade Organisation is with this intention at one point and made, precisely to regulate the rules of the game in the part of the trade and to protect everyone in these rules of the game. So, the importance of joining the WTO is the overall protection of not only those who are in the WTO, for us at the moment is the most important EU, but also the protection that we would have right now by adopting appropriate legislation. A team before me rejoices that this law is so made that these prerogatives, these requirements fully meet. How important it is for us to be part of this family of one of the world's largest organizations, the most significant organization, to explain in the case of our textile industry. The Serbian textile industry employs a huge number of people, if I don't cheat over 100,000 people working in the textile industry, and once it worked more; as far as the family knows. There are few towns and municipalities in Serbia where a company does not precisely produce textiles, or work in the area of textile production. We used to be famous for that. We had a proper participation in world trade and production, even the quality of what we produced in the textile area. Unfortunately, sanctions have completely stifled our competitiveness, some other producers have appeared. This has also put the work of the textile industry at great risk and has endangered, which is very important for us, the economic existence of people who are dealing with this particular activity, which includes the highest percentage or the largest number of employees in Serbia. The textile contract, which was happily concluded at the end of last year and in March of this year, came into effect, allowed us to in one such way, a little indirectly, because we had no proper law and we didn't have that agreement with the WTO, compensate for all the problems we had in textile production, but in terms of exports. Exports are related to our textiles and textiles have always brought our textile industry this very profit, that profit and that kind of development. We had a system of contingents, i.e. the quota when we exported to the EU, as our most significant partner at that time, that we completely minimised that part of the economy, and that part of the production is expected to be greatly increased by such a single contract, so by the textile agreement between Serbia and the EU, as the data already shows, exporting and functioning of the textile industry in Serbia as one of the most present and perhaps most important for a large number of citizens. About $150m of exports were made last year, and only a textile contract is expected to increase the number several times. I will remind you, in 1991, and without these kinds of benefits, the volume of exports and co-operation with the EU was about one billion. We understand from this data, which are absolutely undeniable, exact, to what extent it is significant that we have such types of agreements that will bring us very clear benefits, clear freedom of access to the European and world markets. Of course, we will have proper obligations in all of this, since the world has become much more orderly, the world has proper, stricter requirements than it had before. The world has these reasons that are important to us, and this is raising the quality of life of the European Union's inhabitants; I think that this is also the goal for us -- that we want to have for the economy, and for every citizen who works and lives from his work a safer and more quality future, and that he knows exactly what he buys, of course those who deal with exporting what they sell to, who they sell to, and that all of it has the proper legal coverage. We need an agreement with the WTO, not only to continue the talks on EU accession, but to have the right benefits for our businesses at the moment. The WTO will allow us to, above all, under special regimes where there will be no contingents, in which for the vast number of goods when we export, import customs duties will be abolished to the countries in which we export, because customs have often been, I am not talking about a restriction in terms of contingents, so much that when we exported goods they covered the practical level of profits that factories make by producing an appropriate type of goods, and profit is what provides wages to workers. By not having an obligation to pay customs duties, we will have the possibility that our employees who are in foreign trade companies, and above all by export, will have higher salaries. That's what's most important at this point and what citizens expect most of us to have higher salaries in those areas, in the works, in the companies they work in. It is also a significant possibility that such a law, a fully clear legislation that will be recognised by both the World Trade Organisation and the world, and the organisation has around 150 countries that have signed the agreement, will allow for a very fast increase in investment in Serbia. Why? Math is quite clear. If in one country that has such legislation, which will tomorrow be part of a family covered by the World Trade Organisation, all investors feel more secure that their investment in Serbia will make more profit for them and that they will be able to make more profits with that investment, but that for those of us who live and work in Serbia this will mean more factories, more plants, more employees, investment then, and I expect and has an announcement at all these meetings that I mentioned earlier, will be greatly strengthened. Investors want, in addition to economic calculations, to have a truly reliable legal system that will allow for longer longer-term safer business with a certain profit. Then we'll have more factories and more new jobs. This law provides a very clear regulation of these types of business. They are accurate, and I think it is also said in these discussions we have heard so far, defined the obligations of importers to Serbia, or those that export from other destinations and countries to Serbia, as well as those that export from Serbia. So we have to bear in mind that when we want a partnership relationship with the world or Europe or with anyone else, we have to have that relationship of equality and rights and obligations. It's almost entirely shown by this law. The opinions of our partners in this area have shown that such a bill allows for these two things: partnership and rights and obligations. There is also a very clear view, a liberal attitude both of the government and of the ministry that regulates these activities; therefore, it will automatically reduce any possible abuses that may occur in these actions. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that there have been such abuses, with such legislation that existed in one period or, better yet, when it did not exist. It was never for the benefit of workers, for the benefit of those who produce, but for the benefit of those who have mixed and who have just used such holes or the absence of legal regulations, but also the government's relationship and relevant ministries and services for their own personal benefit, and not for the benefit of those who work and produce in their companies. Also, if we were not to be in a situation where practically this legislation is too liberating or, as the people would say, we are selling our freedom, and our market is absolutely not standing – the law will have the opportunity to see very soon after adoption in this home all those who are engaged in production and who are directed mostly towards exports or even imports – there is also how protection and these territories, in economic terms, and production in this country through very clear, certain anti-dumping measures and so on. Compensation protection. What's this about? Anti-dumping protection is precisely a protection against those who intend to export from other countries to Serbia, to reduce the prices of their products, thus liberating those excess productions that they have in their countries and making appropriate profits through exports to Serbia, i.e. compensate for appropriate failures, errors, etc. This legislation currently provides for such one for Serbia, of course, the harmful action that possibly someone who would export to Serbia would try to do to harm Serbia, and that protection measure, I think, is very clearly shown this time, and that both the ministry and the services that will deal with it will be clearly defined and clear measures will be taken against it. Also, in compensation, in the measures provided for in this law, we protect as a Government, as a country, the possibility that other countries may place some kind of goods from which the country itself wants to benefit in terms of granting certain benefits, privileges and that these safeguards are precisely what this state wants to contain or prevent. This country and how it thinks it is making co-operation with the world and, of course, direct co-operation with all those who are in the World Trade Organisation, as the most powerful trade organisation at the moment; at the same time, to protect this country, either from the producers themselves, or from other countries that are looking to benefit from trade. It is, of course, trade and it is the achievement of certain benefits and profits. I would mention, in the end, Serbia has a lot of exporters, there are a lot of potential exporters waiting precisely for the possibility of getting rid of these obstacles they have and allowing them to be legally regulated to show their goods to the world and sell their goods in the world and earn more money and to receive higher salaries from them. I would not agree that the criminal provisions are too high. Besides, you can see it in the law. I think they're very liberal too, especially if we keep in mind that the possibility of people who would possibly want to abuse something from this law is something that would cause great damage. I think that the criminal provisions themselves are not too high and will make people think in accordance with the law, in line with the interests of their firms, but also in line with the interests of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20843	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr Rankic, Parliament MP Radoslav Jovic will appear in his office.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20844	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it really wasn't my intention to talk about something that's been going on in the King for two months now and what's called the President of the Kingdom. Six years is how I'm head of the royal community. For the first time since 1996 to 1999, and for the second time, by the will of the citizens, I have been elected president of the municipality. I've been doing that function for two years. When gentlemen from the Serbian Radical Party, or Miljko Cetrovic, announced two months ago that they would bring valid signatures for the president's impeachment, I said – it is fine, it is good to check the trust of the electoral body in half of the term. They really brought those so-called so-called. signatures to the municipal election commission. However, when I warned the municipal electoral commission to do its job under the law, to stick to the letters of the Law on Local Elections, and the Law on Local Elections clearly states in Article 54 – the election, that is, the recall of the President of the Municipality, is carried out on the basis of the subsequent application of the provisions of this law on selecting the council members of the local self-government unit. I warned them that the only thing I'm asking is to respect the letter of the law. What happened? The Serbian Radical Party has been collecting signatures in the King for a year. And we know very well, when the elections are signed are collected within a certain time period and no more than a month. The Serbian Radical Party itself has printed forms on which to collect signatures, itself printed forms to give authority to collect signatures. The municipal electoral commission, whose work is being followed by a group of politicians who, along with Miljko Cetrovic, have been defeated by the election in 2003, is the group of dirty politicians in the Kingdom and how I wanted the SRS and Miljko Cetrovic to do the dirty work for them. Now I'm going to show you something that's most recent. To forgive what kind of paperwork they were collecting signatures on, to forgive the fact that they didn't know how they were collecting signatures, but here, dear colleagues and colleagues, these are copies from the birth certificate of the dead. I'll show in a row, but I won't mention the names of the dead for the simple reason I have a drink for them and for their families. I wonder how gentlemen would go if I published these names and if families would meet them on the street and ask, "Where did my son or my daughter's signature come from when they died at the age of 30, twenty, twenty, twenty, five?" This person is 30 years old, died in January 2000, and I was elected president in December 2003. How could the person who died three years before my election sign a motion for the president's recall? (President: Mr. Jovic, you've exceeded your time. So I can list you a few dozen names of the people signed dead on the recall list. It doesn't occur to me to do that because I have regard for dead people. These gentlemen here who call themselves Christians and Orthodoxes, these gentlemen have signed dead people, upset the souls of dead people, and therefore one journalist wrote – through corpses to power, and he wrote well. However, when I told the municipal electoral commission – gentlemen, do you know that it is under Article 233. The criminal law, the crime of falsifying the signature, has, unfortunately, rejected all my objections because they were interested in taking Radet Jovic off the post as president along with radicals. The least important thing is whether Rade Jovic will remain president of the Kraljevo municipality, but it is very important that once in Serbia, which should enter and step into Europe, step aside without such people stealing souls of dead people. (President: Mr. Jovic, you've exceeded your time. ) When I insisted that the municipal electoral commission take action, because it is legally mandatory, to establish that it is a criminal offence and that the whole material is handed over to the authorities of the prosecution, the municipal electoral commission replied that this had no impact on the process of impeachment. The municipal electoral commission for 15 days did not allow me to enter its premises, and at the head of the municipal electoral commission are people who wanted to change the legal and legitimate president of the municipality. (President: Please bring the end, you've been over time for three minutes.) After that, I wrote a complaint to the municipal court. It is unfortunate that the municipal court said the following – the fact that 62 dead persons are signed on the lists does not affect the validity of the remaining signatures on the list. Judges who know very well that falsifying the signature is a felony that goes from six months to five years in prison say these signatures have no effect and all my complaints and objections refuse to be unfounded. (President: Please bring the end. ) Please, Mr. Chairman, yesterday they spoke an hour about Radet Jovic and I have to answer them all. (President: I must respect the Rules of Procedure, as you do, and I ask you to bring an end. I'll finish. I only insisted that those who falsified go where they belong. So what's left of this president, rather than informing the state authorities to investigate the legality of the whole procedure, to inform the public prosecutor and the police that dead people have signed the recall list. When the police started doing their job and calling one by one to confirm how these people signed here, there was panic. When someone's in a panic, they normally make new mistakes and fall from bigger to bigger mistakes. I got information that they used the unemployed database, I personally checked over 3,000 names in a row from the unemployed database on their lists. This president will never allow anyone in such a way to violate the Constitution and the laws of this country. This president will never call off in such a way, based on thieving and breaking all the laws and everything else. As for the Serbian Radical Party's story that the banking system in Serbia destroyed the current finance minister and this authority, here are the certified reports from "Southbank" in 1993 when we were killed by fronts, when we lived on pensions and three-mark salaries, Mr. Miljko Cetrovic as assistant director-general took 150,000 marks of credit, and when he returned it was worth 25,000 marks. That's how honest radicals work, that's how they collect signatures, that's how they destroy Serbia. If the democratic option does not wake up urgently, we will have a terrible situation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20845	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20846	I really had to warn the president in this way, or the chairman that the gentleman who was behind the speaker before me had used three and a half times in the Rules of Procedure allowed time. In principle, we from the SRS don't mind much, the man wasn't here for four or five months, and he should be grateful to Miljak Cevrovic for provoking him to finally enter this hall, not to receive free wages, sheets, diaries, and sits in the King's office and disintegrates what remains in the center of the Royal City Building Land. That's what the citizens of the Kings know, and that's what the citizens of the Kings will show on November 27th on the day when a vote has already been called for a vote of no confidence to the current president of the Kingdom Municipality. Mr. Jovic, an honorable and honest man who was twice chosen by the citizens of his city, which we do not dispute, you were elected, you were elected, you would have waited a hundred times for that date, that November 27th, and you really saw whether the citizens of his city still wanted him to be at the head of that city, and if they didn't want him thanked and removed from that place. You're trying to make up lies, make excuses, scare the people of the Kings, you can't convince them, scare them, so they don't go to that vote on November 27th, and you might stay for a while at the town's president's post. This job is in vain and you will not succeed, despite being with Minister of Capital Investment Velija Ilic and his head of the Ministry of Interior Kraljevo, the man Velja Ilic brought from Cačka, with the intention of fixing the situation in the King according to his prescription. This man with the M.O.P. inspectors calls on the citizens of the Kings who signed your shift and scares people that way, thinking he can convince them not to go out and vote for your resolution. Of course, there's nothing to do with that job, I repeat. You said at the beginning that the SRS was trying to replace you with some kind of an accident. Mr. Joviæ, 10,000 signatures by the citizens of the Kings are not dubious, that's true. The truth is that there were several people on the list who died in the meantime, signed that they didn't want you to be president, because these signatures were being collected from May to about ten days ago, when the job was done. According to the law, Mr Jovic, the electoral commission has notified the SRS, the municipal board in the King, as the applicant, that correction should be made. Correction has been made, signatures completed with valid signatures. There's nothing controversial about it. The fact that you're not good with the electoral commission or the municipal court right now is that you're not really good for the citizens of the Kings. (President: You're out of time. I haven't timed out. Anyone who shows up today from Serbian Radicals to Business or Replication will speak 9.7 minutes. (President: I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to warn you. None of the other MPs have exceeded the time when you're out of time. I would ask you to move within the borders of the Rules of Procedure and receive my notice as well-meaning. Did you give me a warning or did you warn me? (President: I did not give you a warning, I simply warned you in time. Go ahead, go ahead. ) You have the right to be reminded of the Rules of Procedure, I remind you only. So, what the SRS is doing, the Royal Municipal Committee, is an initiative to replace the current president because of the malversions that he's working in the King's Republic, because the people of the Kings have come over his head, because of all those ravings that he's doing in the center of the Kings with building land, with a business space, etc. It was an initiative, the citizens of the broad heart accepted it, and they can't wait for that day. If you're a serious politician, if you have any honor and morals, don't stand up to this pay phone to your fellow citizens like that, but wait nicely for that date, so you can see. If the citizens still want you to stay, we will respect that will for sure. If they don't want to, then it would be nice for you to respect her. So the municipal court did the only thing he could. The signatures and complete procedures have been made in accordance with the law. What you don't like, that's your problem. It's not nice to call the commission, which you chose to call the municipal court, the people who did what they were supposed to do in this case. You call radicals to do the dirty work. Mr. Jovic, dirty politicians like you and Velje Ilic invite citizens to fear them for what they have democratically expressed by saying by their signature that they no longer want you to be the president of the Kingdom municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20847	Ms. Jovanovic, Mr. Jovic reported on the replica. I'm following the Rules of Procedure and he's entitled to a replica. You mentioned his name. The Rules of Procedure are not limited to the number of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20848	Gentlemen, I know you'd like to shut my mouth, but you can't. So we'll see what happens in court. Easy, I have patience to wait. What's for sure is you can't deny 60 people and some dead people, who died significantly before I was elected president. It's a safe forgery one of you will go to jail for. Secondly, if the mob business is that I started in King's Gasification after 30 years, if the mob job is that the King solves his decades-old water supply problem, if the mob business is finally building a bypass, after 30 years, if the mob business is that we're building new schools, we're restoring museums, which we're building regional and local roads as never before, then I accept that I'm a mobster. As for the people who work at the MUP, citizens who were invited to confirm their signature have personally contacted me and have said that they have been properly called only to confirm whether they have signed or are not an initiative for my impeachment. Therefore, there was no pressure, and according to the law on the verification and validity of the signature, you see that it is the right of the body to do so. Therefore, everything falls into your water and you'll see how it ends. But there will be no reelection in the King, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20849	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20850	Mr. Mikhailovich, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have violated article 100. Rules of Procedure. It was necessary immediately after Mrs Radeta came out in line with this already former president of the Kraljevo municipality, it was quite certain that Jovic, present to the MP, to give me the word, because I asked to advertise the injury of the Rules of Procedure because he, using the pay phone, and he lied as a dog, offended not only the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but played with the feelings of the dead people, in a way only known to him. I must tell you first, Mr. Jovic, that you were at a press conference in the Kingdom a few days ago bringing in five false witnesses and immediately reacting to Mr. Cetrovic as a high moral and honorable man, and filing criminal charges, is nothing that will only happen to you because of your abuses. Do you want to go in a row? First of all, it was published in the Official List that citizens asked for your recall with their valid signatures. It's going to happen at a fantastic percentage that you're not even aware of it. On November 25th, he will express his free and democratic will to the citizens of the Kings, who you have been sick of with your machinations and malfeasances, abuses, thieving, corruption that reigned in the municipality of the King, will tell you that, as we would say, you must go to the wasteland of history. Then the judicial authorities will work. These criminal charges you've been bringing in false witnesses are nothing for these other abuses. You've squandered tens of millions of dinars of municipal money, along with the director of Cleanness, through the city service. You have made the most harmful contract in Serbia, which can be done by one president of the municipality, with "Naftagas" and a fantastic 1,200 euros is a gas connection, the most expensive in central Serbia, that's what you personally signed. What did you do next? It wasn't enough for you, because you're an insatiable man, a man who's used to kidnapping and stealing, and then you move on. Minister Parivodić will tell you, and don't just get involved in the economy, because you don't know anything about it. You shouldn't have taken one single dinar in vain, and what did you do? You took 2,200,000 for severances, sent people with poor severances and did the next day, what – you brought your sister-in-law to work indefinitely. But one swastika wasn't enough for you, a few more swastikas, and then a brother-in-law for the director of television. Shorek, of course, is as disoriented as you are obviously, set up as director of television, imagine, making four special shows about your moves, about how you're being attacked by radicals, how you're an honest man, etc. You know, five brother-in-laws to have and to have national television can't help you, or God's father can't help you, because citizens won't, Mr. Jovic. Whoever wants crime and corruption, who wants to put up with 200 people in a year's work in the municipal administration, all your family, probably your wife, and who knows who in turn. Everyone you could bring in and arrest, you did it, and you fired honest people from work. (President: Time, you've exceeded time. You can't do that, Mr. Mikhailovich, because I can go back to the place now, and again to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and so three or four times to show you how unprincipled you were and why you're your party colleague, and I don't even know what you call this parliamentary group, so seven young people, so that you're young... (President: On the contrary, he also received warnings like you.) I don't even know your name is this MP group, nine plus nine, so they're gonna call you... You're all as happy as this Jovic and Veroljub Stevanović, in a specific way; at least a strange person, and if you weren't the kind of citizen you are, you'd welcome it. Mr. Joviæ, don't come next time, but cover yourself with your ears, shut up, crawl into a mouse hole and be happy when the 25th evening announces that you have been called off, because that's the least that can happen to you, and everything else that will follow, all these machinations, all these abuses, the state authorities will deal with it. One reasonable man would be enough, says the municipal election commission, you went well, you attacked people, they say all the signatures of the radicals are valid, right? You go to court once, you go to court twice, they say – lies Jovic, invents, all the signatures are valid; you are now, and that is the poorest thing I have seen, and you of course can do it as the president of the municipality, you come with the deceased for the assembly speaker. (President: Please bring the end. If that is why you came today, as you have performed false witnesses, you should not have come, for you could have taken the deaths of all, unfortunately, deceased persons in the past few years in the Kingdom municipality, especially from the moment you are president, and come and behave in this way. Be assured that you will also be held accountable, as you will for these false witnesses and for abuses, for machinations, robbery, kidnapping, the Royals will no longer suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20851	Please, Mr. Jovic, MP, replica. Please, just one explanation, Mr. Jovic had the right to the replica of Mrs. Radetti, to tell you, on what basis you answered. (The Faith of Radeta, from the scene: Replicated because he mentioned the SRS. ) You had no right to replicate, because only the head of the parliamentary group has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure you get the word and I ask you to bring this debate to an end and return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20852	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I give you my word, I will no longer bother this high house. Very quickly, I hope, the state authorities will do their part, as I have brought out documents, arguments and facts here, and I have not said anything casually. I hope that I will present the arguments and the facts to you very quickly and you will know the whole truth. Citizens of the Kings, please, have no reason to be afraid, the only thing they need to say when they are called is whether or not they have signed the motion to impeach the president. I ask them that this halabuka raised by Serbian radicals about this does not prevent them from telling the truth, because the most important thing in Serbia today is to tell the truth, and for the sake of the present and for the sake of Serbia's future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20853	A moment ago, Mr. Markovic, you were contacted by Mr. Tomislav Kitanovic, but I will not give you a word. We're gonna break up, it's 15 minutes' break, we're gonna try to get back to the agenda. You're right, normally, just to keep your passions down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20854	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The People's MP Branislav Rankic came forward, and let the MP of the people be prepared Slavoljub Matic, not present, the MP of the people, Sava Urosevic, give up. Let the Messengers of the people be prepared, Ivan Radic, and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Raki. (Momir Markovic, from the post: I am looking for a replica by the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mr. Rankic, and I'll give you my word at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20855	Dear Members of the People of Radicals, since these others have two or three, there is a law before us that began to apply long before he came here to us. I even think he's been in service for a few years, and now he's in front of us to verify him in his application. What is this law about? It is essential that the law tells us that we will get closer to the European Union and that we will be even closer to membership in the World Trade Organisation, and that the state, in order for our economy to be successful and for us to be successful in the external trade exchange, will have some institutes that practically restrict certain things in external trade. At the very beginning of the law, it is seen that what is being propagated to us in a collapsing with what is written in the law. Thus, Article 3(5) states that freedom of foreign trade, direct investment abroad and the implementation of investment works abroad can only be limited under the conditions prescribed by this law. This law has laid down the conditions of restrictions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed jurisdiction in Article 5. Article 4 states that the permitted restrictions on external trade are prescribed, applied and interpreted in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union. Therefore, none of the government would possibly want to limit, unless they are the European Union's views, will be able to limit, no matter what it says in this law. You know, when our representatives go to the talks with the representatives of the European Union, they often suggest what is not written on any paper, but they suggest and give them instructions on how to work, so that what we are able to seem to limit things will not really bring anything fundamental, but will limit things to the way the European Union wants them to. It is said that the existing law that regulated this matter was restrictive and that, unfortunately, we did not have a successful appearance in the foreign trade exchange, that we were away from the European Union because of this, that we were away from membership in the World Trade Organisation. Now we come to something that is completely unclear to me, as a national MP, since statistics record that in the last few years our external trade deficit has increased from year to year – as it is a law that is restrictive and which did not allow such free access to the World Trade Organisation provided that we have a better ratio of exports and imports. We now have, like, a law that is liberal, completely open, that will allow us to join the European Union and the World Trade Organisation very quickly, and in fact, this relationship is more unfavourable for us, precisely because of the benefits of membership in the World Trade Organisation, of course, the United States and the three richest member states of the European Union, while everyone else is very expensive to pay for their membership in the World Trade Organisation, and the most paid by those who are least developed and those who want to become members of the European Union. In addition to the World Trade Organisation, there are still a number of international agreements between several countries that make forms of trade organisations, where simply some countries from various regions of the world have seen that they have a much better way and that they will be better off in trade exchanges with each other if they have some of their own internal trade organisations, which may be outside of the World Trade Organisation, because they have understood the essence – that the developed world, the most powerful countries of the world, are rich only in such a way that those who are less rich become increasingly poor. Also, our membership in the European Union – you could see that they also restrict certain countries when it comes to protecting their production and imports, even from countries that are members of the European Union, regardless of all agreements they have signed, protecting their production. It turns out, first of all, that Germany, France, Great Britain has the greatest benefit from the European Union, and that all other countries that belong to that so-called. The second round of enlargement, not to mention the third round of enlargement, has practically only much higher costs, they are burdened with production, a much larger administration, which has been increased by the need to bring the regulations to line with the European Union as much as possible and, of course, because of the payment of membership in various institutions in the European Union practically the poor. What was this law supposed to provide? According to what was said here, he was supposed to ensure the equality of all participants in the outside trade. I'll tell you right away that no one in the world has ever been able to secure this equality, neither will this law, nor have the laws in other countries that are stronger, more powerful and greater than us. Equality is impossible because there are economic operators that are much more and more financially powerful and that can open all doors and, of course, there can be no speech about equality, because they are able to provide, because of their business and other connections, jobs that are from the sphere of external trade, which they cannot achieve less successfully. So, this first objective, which is promoted by this law, is practically unattainable and is, as in some similar previous laws, practically just a declared goal, which cannot be achieved. It is said here that this law will allow for the protection of the domestic market. We're going back to that -- if our domestic market is so protected, then where do we get such a huge external trade deficit, how does that foreign trade deficit get bigger year after year? I'm telling you that this law has been applied for five or six years, no matter what we adopt it now, because the previous one is not respected. So this goal that should be achieved by this law, or what this law should allow, will practically not lead to the protection of the domestic market. What happens after this privatisation process that ends with several other attractive large systems left in the Republic of Serbia? We are practically in a situation that owners in the most profitable industries are mostly foreign and domestic legal and physical persons. Protecting domestic production will not protect citizens' standards, unfortunately. They'll be exporters, foreign companies that bought our individual companies here in the state show up as exporters. They can be successful, but only for themselves, not for the state, since workers who work in these companies, and this has proved to be making a monthly profit between 200-250 euros, to do so, above all, because we have a cheap workforce, and that they will achieve extraprofit. The state will not benefit from that, except for some taxes. Since we can't live on taxes, because production is falling, there are few who are successful, we will continue to practically fill the budget from consumption, which is incomprehensible. The third stated objective is that this law should allow faster accession to the European Union and to the World Trade Organisation. I'll remind you that this country had a trade agreement with the Russian Federation, which was extremely favourable, and now it has it, and now it's extremely favourable for our country, and it's not being used. Practically, none of the advantages this and previous government has had, the previous two governments have benefited. Then the question arises who guarantees it, with governments like this, that we will use some potential advantage that we will have if we become a member of the World Trade Organisation. I guarantee you that there will be no advantage and that the advantage of this membership is only strong and powerful, and that their advantage is seen, above all, in the fact that the poor are less powerful. In the end, the biggest problem with this law on foreign trade is that we have nothing to take out. The government could have calmed souls to give us the same law, but to address it - import law, because in the future it will all be based on importing certain goods, and that in this way, with the poored economy and destroyed the largest number of economic branches, we will practically have nothing to export very quickly and we won't need such a law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20856	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Momir Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I reported to the Rules of Procedure before the vice president gave it, so Mr. President thought the list was exhausted and he gave the word to Mr. Rankic. I understand the president accidentally broke the Rules of Procedure. In his presentation, MP Jovic, a member of the MP group plus several, I do not even know what the MP groups are called – in addition to telling the truth and threatening the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and no one is allowed to wave to the SRS or to all MPs, because neither the SRS nor the MPs are massaging anyone – he injured Article 104 paragraphs 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. As far as this debate on the King and MP Jovic is concerned, it is not important for MP Jovic that the court has reached a solution that the signatures are relevant, which the electoral commission issued on the basis of these signatures, and I have to correct Mrs Verica Radet, she said on November 27th, not November 27th but November 25th, because by November 27th, UBPOK will probably enter the books, and perhaps as early as November 27th, Minister Jovic has been adequately placed, in line with the works he worked in the King. He doesn't care about the court, he doesn't care about the election commission, all that matters is what the Chief of Staff said, otherwise his friend, who was bringing in people at 9:00 a.m., who signed the recall list and the referendum that will take place 25. Stalin of the royal juice, that's the only way Stalin worked. It's fortunate he won't stay after 25, because otherwise, he'd probably invent some gulag around the Kings. Mr. Jovic's story has two parts. The first part is the one next to the referendum, and the second part is the one after the referendum, because all the crimes, starting with city building land and all that Mr. Cetrovic mentioned and all that my two dear predecessors are for this assembly speaker, Mrs. Radeta and Natasha, the MPs of the SRS, mentioned, for all of this will have to get into that part, followed by the trial and the servitude. I suggest that Mr. Jovic empty the pantry, draw the blinds and practice life slowly in a closed area, so that he doesn't have a problem with claustrophobia, believe me, people, it's a very dangerous disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20858	Mr. Markovic, it is forbidden to talk about the private life of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20859	I advise him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20860	Please, time's up, finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20861	My second advice is to buy a blanket, they're here for sale in the streets of the Serbian rulers, they'll need it, it looks like nights in the royal prison are very cold.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20862	Mr. Kitanovic, I saw that you called in the Rules of Procedure, you'll get the word, just let me say something. Today is October 26th, please, this is the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, we are working on the Rules of Procedure and we respect all parliamentary rights. I ask for restraint and mutual respect to honor this home. You, Mr. Kitanovic, will get word to the Rules of Procedure, but everyone else, along with the President, has to work on the Rules of Procedure, we will respect the time. The only explanation I can give is that there's no referendum that's been called up, there's recall. I don't know what happened in the previous part of the session, but after addressing the Rules of Procedure of the Continuance of the session, there won't be any unless the professional services are questioned and the representatives of the Ministry are returned here. So, in case there's no Ministry representative, I won't allow the session to continue. I'm glad they're having breakfast, but I didn't have breakfast either.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20863	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I just wanted to give up, with the intention that parliament is doing the job it needs to do, means that it is working on harmonising relations and that it is trying to get Serbia out of the crisis that the very ones who appear here are obstructing work and story. My intention was to speed up with this harmonisation of relations, to make Serbia go the right way, not to go back to a party that has just been brought here by MPs who most strongly report, do not respect the Parliament's dignity, do not respect other MPs, and in one primitive way address this parliament. As for the parliamentary group I belong to, the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction, which was said here on several occasions to be a strange group, I don't know what's strange about it. What's strange is if I, personally as a graduate politician, find myself in this House, or it's weird for this people if someone who sold tickets to the bus station yesterday comes here and becomes a professional and expert on all the issues and all the things. Is it strange that this parliamentary group is in contact with all parties in this country, contacts with parties outside this country, contacts with the entire international community, or is it strange that someone in this country does not contact any party and does not contact anyone in the international community around the world? Is it strange that someone in the whole world doesn't contact anyone, has no friends, no one understands him, only he's right, only he knows everything, and in fact he's brought Serbia into this situation, so it's hard for us to get her out of where they brought us? Everything they said happened in this country the opposite. They were looking for something big, and they ruined what they had, which was normal. There's a lot to talk about what they've done and where they've brought us. It's very difficult for this government. I understand the problems this government is facing to get Serbia on the right track. I think Serbia sees and knows who's weird in this assembly and who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20864	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give you accurate notice. Representatives of all parliamentary groups are taking part in the work of the committee, which means in interparliamentary co-operation, which happened just this morning, happened yesterday when the committee's interparliamentary co-operation with the European Union's parliaments was. Therefore, representatives of all parliamentary groups participate in this. The conditions for continuing work have been met. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20865	The heavy radical artillery is moving, Mr. Markovic, because, you know, when someone comes out for a pay phone, I don't know who he is, he only has a name and a last name, and I don't know which party he belongs to because he's disoriented, five parties he's changed, then you're obliged to tell me that I don't possibly go astray with who I'm talking to. This is where the gentleman says – with no one, and it is not said, but said – with no one, take a basic education if you want to be an MP. And you, sir, what is it? Just make the phone call to Dinkic who you need, and let us work this out with those who are your pendants, so I don't say anything worse, and they support you in your own perilous policy. As for the Serbian Radical Party and our serious work and my discussion that will follow the law on foreign trade, what is today, it is amazing indeed, Mr Markovic, that you are so hypocritical and that in such a way you are trying to hold a session in what we call a democratic struggle, with some, as we Serbian radicals, people with an innate sense of democracy, unlike those others who falsely represent themselves. We have no objection to such conflicts, all of which is the parliamentary life and political life of Serbia. If you already see that, as the citizens of Serbia see, they have done the most dominant political party, both MPs and all members of the Serbian Radical Party in promoting their programme, and that is why we are the most successful, and that is why the people love us the most, and that is why there is the most here, then don't put yourself, Mr Markovic, because you are the first among the equals, on the side of the losers. You shouldn't put yourself on either side; you shouldn't be looking at yourself objectively and I believe that you think that the radicals are what I've told you so far, and your problem is that you're here where you are in the name of that policy that you've advocated or maybe you've changed your attitude. When you give a word to MPs who were not at all in the O.R., who normally have a primary assignment, as a previous speaker, to wait outside the National Assembly's tillage, so even employees can't explain when there's no money, because they weren't brought from the vault, then you have to know what the difference is and who you're dealing with. It's not the same thing when I come out or some Serbian radical or such a thing as she just did. So think about it for your rating and for the national assembly rating that you chair. I don't really know anymore, but the man is supporting Kostunica now, and he took his mandate in the last term. How is it possible to show up now and say – Kostunica is good and is a good government, and he stole the mandate last time. It's just amazing. Take care of this, Mr Markovic, because you, by your example and impartiality, should show that this high house, the most legislative body, should still restore to itself the dignity that is such as MP Jovic and the one who spoke earlier collapse with their conduct and, above all, false and one ultimate, and that is not incorrect, because there is nothing to be incorrect about these political duels and conflicts, but a hypocritical attitude, at least when they are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20866	Thank you. Of course, you will all receive a word by the Rules of Procedure; only for dignity, all MPs are equal, it is my obligation to treat all MPs equally. Certainly, I don't side with losers, because I defended the president of one of the most important committees, and perhaps you didn't pay attention to what I said when I talked about the MPs from all parties participating in the work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic answered. You gave up. No one was mentioned. Please, we're talking, the MPs say it loud and clear. Thank you. Business or replica? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kitanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20867	Article 104 again. I can't take this kind of discussion and I won't. It'd be below the level of me paving up with such discussions. If I was a little late and I got into this gym, it was because the cashier was busy, it was full of radicals, and I couldn't come up from you to collect the living room, so maybe I was a few minutes late. I've already been declared a replica, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20868	Please, I can ask you to slowly bring the discussion to an end. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic reported. Here you are, and thank you for giving up a moment ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20869	Mr. Markovic, you have violated several members of the Rules of Procedure, and first, Article 27, which says you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here some MPs insulted certain MP groups, spoke of some primitiveism. I'd have to tell this confused gentleman, first of all, since he says he's having a hard time dealing with discussions, of course it's hard to argue with discussions. And since he's already mentioned college and he says he's probably more valuable than anyone else in this National Assembly who didn't finish that college, I don't know where he went to college and what college it was, but it's obvious that in that system of education that he's finishing, he's only learning from Master's Studies. I would recommend that this gentleman continue his education. Then when a certain level reaches, maybe it could come back. So, Mr. Markovic, one more thing I want to tell you. You've brought MPs into an unequal position. You started after a break of debate. There were no representatives of the Ministry here. You insisted that Branislav Rankic from the SRS parliamentary group address the MPs who were in the O.R. at the time. And then you said, when it's over, there's no conditions, and if the next speaker isn't the minister, then it'll end. In this way you have shown some kind of animosity, for which I really do not see the reason, both towards Mr Rankic and towards the SRS parliamentary group. I think the basic order would be to apologize and to treat all MPs in the future, regardless of which parliamentary groups they come from, you treat them the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20870	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Just according to Article 27, taking care of the order, I respected everything I received at the time of my break from the vice president who had previously led the congregation, so I gave the order. I'm sorry, you're absolutely right, Mr. Rankic. That's what I did before I gave my word, and I said I'd take action and I realized you'd accept an apology, Mr. Rankic. Thank you. Mr. Minister has also made an apology. Thank you very much. We're continuing on the agenda. So the word has been given by the People's Messenger Ivan Radic, and the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Another announcement: today, as we agreed yesterday, we will only work until the conclusion of the principle debate on the 12th point of the agenda, if this is before the end of the working hours and then we will end. If the debate begins on the 12th agenda -- the tobacco law, before 18.00 hours ago, means the end of it. Tomorrow's session will not be, not only because the Council is Friday, but because of the need to maintain a whole series of committees, but also because of the need for the Assembly to act as a total regional action. The president and delegation of the next-country parliament are hosting us. A whole series of technical reasons. There won't be a session on Friday. We will continue the debate Monday at 10.00 hours due to the importance of the law; I know St. Luke and I congratulate everyone, but we will certainly begin at 10.00 hours and the first will have a word, the first reported, independent MP Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation by quoting the part of the reasoning that has come to us with the proposal for this law, and it concerns the opinion of this proposal and the opinion of the Government on the current law. Thus, it is said that the new law should establish a legal framework in accordance with WTO and EU rules, which will allow access to these organisations, but should primarily enable domestic economy to have a smooth access to foreign trade, the equal appearance of domestic entities on the world market, to provide all measures to protect domestic economy of permitted WTO and EU rules, and to improve foreign investment by providing an external trade framework in accordance with the world's best practice confirmed in WTO and EU rules. When commenting on the current law, the government says: "The existing law is very restrictive, imperfect solutions allow abuses, significantly disrupts the freedom and equality of participants in foreign trade, burdens and slows down the economy and state administration, and does not contain important instruments of foreign trade policy, nor the conditions and regime for their application, and prevents WTO accession and serious negotiations with the EU. The existing law allows state intervention and control in a non-road way and contains a number of restrictive concepts that are economically harmful in their entirety. "When we read the current law, we read the proposal of this law, for God's sake, we would think carefully about what these interpretations apply to one and what the other. Since the government says it is difficult to start any serious negotiations with the European Union with this law, I wonder what has been waiting for two years, why the proposal has not been sent before to the Assembly and how the European Union has accepted any negotiations with the Serbian government if they have had such a bad bill. Because of the time limit, I'm just going to do a few more serious things about this law to distract myself. First, the first thing that came into my eye in Article 1 is one legal uncertainty, i.e. legal inaccuracy: paragraph 2 says that the law can, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union, regulate external trade in certain types of goods or services. Lawyers know it well, the law orders or prohibits something. This provision does not have to have a place in the law, nor is it legally justified at all, provided that you have clearly stated in your reasoning that basic agreements from the World Trade Organisation system (Agreement on procedures for the issue of import licences, grant agreements and compensatory measures, application of Article 6 have been used in the course of the draft. GATT), European Union rules and experience in comparative law. That's why I think the second position of Article 1 is completely unnecessary, that it does not belong here and I think that the Serbian Radical Party has one amendment to this position and intervened. Furthermore, there is one contradiction in the part of the law that speaks of permitted restrictions on external trade. The restriction should have a purpose, first of all, not to distort competition between participants in foreign trade, first of all to protect domestic producers, but under Article 4(6), is something I cannot understand very well, which is that the limitation takes effect after the expiry of the deadline which cannot be shorter than 30 days. So, if the Government finds that there has been a distortion of competition between participants in foreign trade, it will express a limit that cannot enter into force earlier than 30 days, the ceiling does not even exist, which means that the economic operator carrying out certain operations has at least a month that these jobs practically bring an end, regardless of whether any adverse consequences will arise. I think it is quite logical and justified to say that the restriction takes effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", so that the negative consequences will be reduced to a minimum or practically impossible at the beginning. Two parts of this law which are particularly interesting relate to the distribution of quotas and the introduction of safeguard measures. It's basically two basic items of this law and there's a lot of controversy about it, there's a lot of slowness, where there could be a little more intervention. As regards the allocation of quotas, it is Article 17 of the proposed law, it is unclear why the Ministry, which, on the basis of a public call for the allocation of quotas, has not allocated quotas, has not set a time limit within which all interested economic operators will make themselves known. So, if that public invitation is to be made public, it's necessary to formulate a deadline, whether it's 10, 15, 20 or 30 days doesn't matter. It is impossible for that public call to have unlimited duration. It is particularly interesting that a single thread is being passed through this Article 17 that may be able to enable a monopoly of individual economic operators, for the reason that quotas are allocated by some key that may have a little reverse order. That is, to move on to the proposal that this should be – that the award of quotas per repeated public invitation for the same goods should be awarded to persons who have not previously been allocated quotas and who have applied for the first public invitation. In this way, it would prevent any of the same entities from having fixed quotas in an uninterrupted series and thus prevent any monopoly that such an economic operator might have. For the same reason, it is possible that a period within which the quota can be used may be reduced from one year to six months, for example, to allow more people to receive quotas. What is one of the main shortcomings in determining quotas is that persons who do not use the quota under this law are not subject to any sanctions. So someone who doesn't do everything right absolutely doesn't carry any sequencings, and he's going into the next allocation of quotas with the rest of the interested. We believe that there should have been a criminal measure to impose a ban of two, three or a few years, that these economic operators who did not comply with this law can not obtain quotas for a certain period of time. As far as protection measures are concerned, which I was just talking about, refer to the rates of anti-dumping duties and the rates of compensatory duties. My grudge goes in that direction that there's no category of income here, which is income, which should be, in any case, how the funds are collected that way. It goes into the budget, but we can't get everything into the budget to give Mr. Dinkic, so he can share it any way he wants and how he thinks he should. The funds collected in this way are the revenues of the budget, but this law should make it clear that they can be used exclusively to eliminate the consequences of imports of the goods concerned, whether dumped goods or compensatory, because it is obvious that imports of such goods result in adverse consequences in the economy of our country and that these funds should be directed towards the recovery of these damages. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: Can you explain what this is about? Mr. Minister, I'm very clear about what this is all about, so there's no need to throw it away. What I'm about to say is I'll say, and we can talk after what you want. Just one more thing to say, it refers to the quantitative limit, Article 59, that is, to the application of the protection measure, from Articles 60 to 63. It is said: "The government, in regular times, gradually reduces the degree of protection applied for more than one year. "I think this member is a little unspeakable. So these regular time periods can be interpreted anyway. I think it would be necessary to specify that the government has an obligation to gradually reduce the degree of protection on a six-month or a yearly basis, and this is how it is left at will. In fact, this member of the law should be a little specific, Article 62. What is particularly interesting is a Article 63 that says that the protection measure cannot be introduced for imports of goods previously subject to such a measure. I think this member of the law would make sense to some countries that have developed economies and that have no problems with Serbia. Given the difficult economic situation in which domestic production is located, certain protection measures should be repeated several times, until domestic production is able to be equal to the competitor of foreign competitors. For that reason, I think this article in 63 should be deleted. To conclude, this law may be modern, it may be in line with international standards, but I don't think the proposing has sufficiently taken the economic situation in which Serbia is located. I believe that the failed Serbian economy will only push the law further into the ambis, and for this reason the SRS will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20872	Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we could have expected this law in the assembly procedure following a set of amendments to the other laws, especially the Customs Tariff Act and the Customs Act. It was a trail of events that was drawn, not by you or by some vision as minister and specifically by the Serbian government, but by the famous signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is so praised here, and on the basis of the report, and the one I have in my hand is for the first half of 2005 and clearly sees what the EU requires of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what laws will come in order. That much of what the EU is asking us unconditionally to miss out on the draft of this text of the law was later seen on the basis of amendments submitted, and 15, which the government submitted to its own original bill. They were signed by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, the one who signed in the famous "sugar affair" all that contributed to our country's reputation on the international external trade plan so much lessens and throws one lie to our potential and to what we are really willing to produce here and drive out using preferences, not to engage in fraud. Then the question arises, Minister Parivodic, as is possible, and once you are in a difficult situation to replace Dinkic, and from the third time in the Bill you appear as an authorised proponent, to drop these things and to even get into the position of the Serbian Radical Party in some segments when it comes to, say, erasing Article 74 of the Law, because we have also suggested it. You know how it is under the Rules of Procedure and you used it, that these amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia are incorporated into the law, but I am only interested in the fate of the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. If you want to have a comprehensive law on foreign trade and to protect a completely ruined domestic economy, then you need to seriously consider these amendments and remarks that we have made, because of possible abuses, and above all for the protection of our production. In particular, we Serbian radicals think of agricultural production, which, according to the Stabilisation and Association Commission's report (this is what you governmental people pay particular attention to and follow unconditionally), participates in more than 20%. We've heard a lot from reformists before you, starting in 2001, when things started to change in the legislative sense, so that we would be better off, so that we would be competitive with our products on the world market, to reduce abuses, so that the previous regime that has done so much evil would be cut off, or their monopolies. However, none of this has happened, and it did not bear fruit, first of all, because we strongly opposed such price liberalisation. We as a party can welcome the signing of a free trade agreement with as many countries as possible. We never challenged it. There are some who were extremely hostile to our country and our people at the time of the bombing, sanctions, but we in these ratifications at the National Assembly then don't participate, but we potentiate where there are such agreements, such as with the Russian Federation, why it is not used enough. We as a party have been very often able to explain it, and the citizens have now understood it, especially since we have exercised power in many municipalities and cities in Serbia, integration processes and in our region, and in the Balkans, Europe, and the whole world, because it is not enough just to bind ourselves to EU countries and in this sense to observe the future prosperity of our economy. The issue is fundamental issues – and this is what we have potentiald in the 2003 pre-election campaign and in the next elections, which we expect to be premature, which is what Mr Tomislav Nikolic was talking about, and especially when you say "transparently" will show what our products look like and what we can offer and what we can offer and what quality it is – with which we would go out with such outdated technology and with production that is almost not existing in certain economic segments on the EU market. Protection measures, especially for agricultural products and for our food industry, which as long as there is enough, are not sufficient, which clearly shows the degree of external trade deficit and the fact that many are bad, not to say a lot of non-quality products are found in both our supermarkets and those that are import lobbys, and on the other hand our economy is being systematically destroyed. When the debate is in particular, you will see that these few amendments by the Serbian government coincide with the position of the Serbian Radical Party, however, are more precisely defined. As for these objections so far expressed by the SRS MPs, we believe that, in addition to Article 74, which you have proposed to completely erase, and this is the only such amendment, precisely from the protection measure of such a failed and technologically poor economy in Serbia, should be deleted also by a member of the 63rd Law. What we could do, but under different circumstances, not only through the condition that we have this law and a better way of regulating import-export quotas, to export to the market, and the question is about the course of the dinar and our current monetary situation and politics. The evaluations of economic experts are that the course of the dinar is unrealistic and that it is destimulating for exporters. It was first felt by the raspberries, first with a very low ransom price this year, of 40 dinars, I think, for the first class of raspberries, so it was easier for them (some of them from revolt and doing it in those parts) and to give it to someone or simply fail contingents and fruits in general, produced in certain parts of Serbia, because they were neither organized nor assisted by the state until now. We will see whether this will improve the adoption of this law, to place it as extremely high-quality products on the market not only of the EU, but of the whole world. When it comes to the allocation of quotas and abuses, we have suggested to you, out of caution, in addition to eradicating Article 63, that such persons, or those who appear, are not able to compete in due course because they have committed abuse. You remember, if you followed back then, and I believe that it is, Serbia's political life, the area of foreign trade and foreign foreign exchange business, was regulated by the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly at the time of Radoj Kontic, when we protested sharply for privileged persons and for those who received import quotas in such a way, on the political line, achieved enormous income. Some of them, you are now popularly named – Serbian tycoons are well-inhabited in the dossal structures of the government, so the rest of them can co-operate with you, or with this government, and no one can do anything to them. They're just monopolies in our country doing whatever they want. There are major problems in the beginning because of the state's behaviour towards certain individuals. I know a lot of people who think about dealing with internal trade, having registered external trade activity, exporting something that can be placed on the foreign market, and very well, but simply, they don't have any incentives, they're demoralized in advance, and it's not at all to the extent that it could be in our country, so we have such an external trade deficit and we're recording such bad results. The numerous demands and objections the EU puts before us, the price liberalisation, what they did in the condition area when it comes to customs tariffs, which we have sharply criticised, especially for agricultural products, and that is something our economy will not be able to withstand. The harmonisation of legislation in the movement of goods, capital and foreign trade at all is not something we run away from, but we believe that at least in the coming period, the question is how long it will take, because it takes a long time for the economy to recover... Here, we see it on the case of the Kragujeva flag. It's not enough to sign just a license agreement, some call it a sales contract, where we say -- well, we saved that branch of the economy. You know, there's a big problem going on, and this law isn't going to help in itself, where we're going to take everything out and make these 600,000 car stamps "full", or "flag 10", because the company "Fiyat" has one of the best sales networks from car industries and companies, and it's not its license agreement with the flag tied through the sales network. Then they say -- here, for the internal market, for the Bulgarian, Romanian market, for the surrounding countries, you can produce so much, and management should be able enough and the question is whether it is able to place it. This with agricultural products and the constant decline of agricultural products that eventually end up on our market is a problem that lasts for decades and more backwards, and all because the state has never had enough hearing and has not seriously approached the problem. I remember, at the time of the Dossow government and when Cedomir Jovanovic was head of the DOS parliamentary group, that he went out for a pay phone without a pardon and said – what's wrong with Dutch potatoes, he might be better than the one from Prika. Then, of course, how do these agricultural producers react when they know that this year I am sown much less grain, which is less than 20 percent than last year, and those who sowed potatoes and those raspberries that I mentioned, or those who have cherry plantations, have failed and they simply have no chance of surviving. We Serbian radicals believe that even though we are lagging behind in the technological process for developed countries, we have some extremely healthy parts of our economy, especially the accent we throw on agriculture and on a metal complex and we believe that we as a country can compete on a foreign market. If we were in power, we would use the contract that our country signed in 1998, before the bombing, with the Russian Federation, because we certainly know that and how much we can export to that market. After all, we did not dispute the ratification of a textile industry agreement a few months ago in the Assembly. It's one of the examples from those times when our economy has functioned impeccably, how can a quality product that has our textile industry, which is in an extremely difficult position right now, to export to the Russian Federation market; they import everything and everything from various other countries, because with us as traditional allies, they can't make such contracts, because the textile industry is currently in a difficult situation and there's nothing to offer. Through the debate on amendments, you will see that our protection measures, which are necessary, are much more precise and better done. For example, the duration of the temporary measures is more appropriate than 200 days, as you have given, and as far as everyone else is concerned, since the first amendment, we have reacted, not everywhere, but where necessary, you will see that the Serbian Radical Party, given the necessity of the recovery of the Serbian economy, has tried to even through the law on foreign trade, which should survive in traffic for a long time and not change, gave much better conditions and solutions for this law and for this area, which we will talk about when the debate comes in particular. So much for now, until our individual objections begin, that is, according to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20874	The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, so let the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is before us, as the Proposer puts it, another of the basic system laws, and that is exactly the law that, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia once again says, will enable us to develop economic relations, and so far it is an obstacle to the accession of the World Trade Organisation, the EU. I don't know how the government saw it just now, so why wasn't this law on the agenda when this government was elected. And, we should finally get a list of these basic system laws and those laws that will bring us closer to the EU, because it is extremely inappropriate for you to write exactly the same things in each of your explanations, and the more laws we pass, unfortunately, we are further away from that European Union. You used to tell us that we were going to enter in 2008, now it's in circulation in 2016, and if you stay in power for another year it'll probably be 2026. As for the argument, the minister gave us this explanation, I am absolutely not satisfied. I think there were more cheap political paroles here than is really an essential explanation of what and what the effects of this law are. What concerns me particularly is the minister's statement that this law is written so that it can be understood to the businessmen, because, according to the minister, not all of them have graduated from law school, so these legal terms would be unclear to them, and mainly will be applied to the businessmen. If we were to use this kind of, certainly wrong logic, then probably the Criminal Code should also be written in such a dictionary that it is understood by criminals, because, my God, of course, will be the most applied to them, and it should not be written in pure legal language. This is another law in which you are using your wrong strategy, which you have chosen from forming a government. You introduce some meaningless expressions here, it doesn't matter at all whether terms that have been used in laws so far are used, which are clarified in theory and in practice what they mean, but you're introducing new terms. I'm going to show you some examples that the same things in several places in the law are regulated in a completely different way. Also, what is a feature of this law, since you have introduced practice that every member of the law must have a title, here are, I mean, the most senseless names of all the laws we've ever had in the process. You are no longer concerned that when you read the name above one member, you need to understand what it means, but you have a member whose name is "conditions". What conditions? For what terms? What's this about? Nobody knows. He knows who wrote the law, he understands, but that's not how laws are written. The laws should be written in a language that is understood by all, whether or not he is a businessman, whether he has read a legal document before, whether he has graduated from law school or not. What you're doing doesn't make sense. The consequences of these inaccuracies can be far-reaching. We're warning you on time. Also, we don't think it's an accident, you deliberately clouded some parts of the law so that later on, you could use broad interpretations, which in the government, which in the ministries, you could do whatever you wanted. So, you don't need to defend businessmen by prescribing some of them with a clear language of a certain provision, but by making the law so precise that there is no room for such or such interpretation later, that every time you read the provision of a member you can be sure of what it means and that you can be sure that tomorrow you will have legal protection based on that member. Also, it seems to me that this law will not fulfil one of the purposes, which, in addition to freedom of external trade, should certainly be fulfilled, which is to protect domestic production, domestic economy, domestic agriculture. Remember that we cannot measure ourselves with the countries of the European Union, a farmer in France, when they produce wheat, will receive state subsidies; and also remember that the price you pay in Serbia this year is 20% lower than the one you paid last year. You lied to the peasants, you kept saying that they were the pride and spirit of this country, to endure a little longer, thanking each other, but when it comes to the law, then forget all that you said. When subsidies occur, Mladjan Dinkic, who says -- we have billions of surpluses this year, he didn't remember to say -- we're going to give a dinar a pound of wheat again. He came out here to brag about the surplus, and the fact that our village and economy are falling apart, I guess that's someone else's problem, so when we get into the European Union in 2016, then they're going to bring it all to the level that we need, and then they're going to take care of our peasants, and by then, I guess, they're going to get on their own. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll try, as long as it allows, to read. Article 1(2) states: "The law may, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the regulations of the European Union, regulate external trade in certain types of goods or services". When you put such a formulation into the law, then someone might think that you are practically putting European Union legislation and the rules of the World Trade Organisation in some supervisory position in relation to our legislation. Practically, you prescribe direct application of European Union rules. If that's the case, then you should say it publicly and openly, but then why are we even passing the law? Then you should have written a law of two members, you should have said in the first article – in the future it will apply in Serbia the legislation of the European Union; the second member – this law comes into force then and then, and we will finish the job. This is how you say that the right of the European Union is above national law, but you're making some other rules, so I guess we'll be able to do some things, in others we won't. What's certain is that this is how you lead to legal uncertainty, that you don't know what's going to apply here, as a senior legal act. Whether it will be government regulations, and by this law you have left very much room to rule regulations, measures, temporary measures and in other ways, and the question is whether it is such a practice, and certainly not, in the European Union. What importance do these regulations have, then, of this European Union? Furthermore, Article 4 is related to the restriction of foreign trade and says – restrictions take effect after the expiry of a deadline that cannot be shorter than 30 days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You know that this is an extremely long time and we have predicted that these restrictions will take effect on the day of the publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". If any restrictions are introduced, it should be known that there is a certain gap. It is therefore necessary, first of all, to observe that any restrictive measures are needed, so it takes a certain time to implement any action to come to the proposal of any regulation, and then it is necessary to adopt a certain act. It is a time that, in itself, especially in the state of Serbia and with such a government as we have, surely for an extremely long time. After that, you expect to wait another 30 days. This is completely inappropriate. I don't know why 30 days. If you had put eight, what is common, or if you had put -- on the day of entry into force, which is also a very common case in this assembly, we would understand that. Why here, when it comes to protecting domestic production, say – 30 days? In 30 days, you can import so much of a certain product that it is enough for the next year to ruin the whole market in Serbia. So this is how you protect no one. If you have such limitations, then it's better that the restrictions don't exist at all. Furthermore, Article 7 – you say that a foreign person, within the meaning of this law, is considered to be: 1) a legal person based abroad, 2) a foreign natural person, and 3) a domestic citizen with a residence, i.e. a residence abroad for more than a year. You in this way in this law, this provision, in a perfidan way introduce the possibility of huge abuses, introduce the possibility of washing large amounts of money. By treating a certain person as a foreign legal person, or physical, you say that person will not have the obligation to pay any tax to this country. Each country tends to tax its domestic citizens first. There are certain rules that prevent double taxation when it comes to abroad, but you also need to know that for a few hundred dollars, you can get your application back from one year on those exotic islands, with which Quasimocrats are extremely fond of doing business, so, in Sessel, Cayman, for 2,000 dollars, you can get confirmation that you're registered there. So this is about residence, not even residence, and you can get government confirmation from that state that you will never be asked to pay any tax. It's about what happened. The countries that represent the tax haven. If, in accordance with domestic legislation, that person is considered a foreign person, then it simply comes to the conclusion that it will not be required to pay any tax, either here or abroad. So, you get these provisions, you can make someone think it's not too important, but make sure this isn't an accident. There is no such regulation in the European Community. Come on, bring a regulation where England or Germany say – who has a registered residence in Liechtenstein for a year or in the Caymans or the Seishel Islands, no longer has to pay taxes to this country. Of course, it's not there. Furthermore, in Article 13, you say that the import of goods is the introduction, addition or delivery of goods from another country's territory to the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the customs regulations of the Republic. I ask you, what about Montenegro? Is the territory of the Republic of Serbia understood, because here you say "in the territory of the Republic", and within the meaning of this law, the territory of the Republic of Serbia is the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does this law refer to the goods imported from Montenegro to Serbia and exported from Serbia to Montenegro? Is this another attempt to introduce some new rules regarding Serbia-Montenegro? You broke up the SRJ first, so you made this quasi state community, and now you say -- here we are, we've been to it, we've been very honest, but simply, the reality of it disproves us, relationships are different. You have already introduced customs between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. Is this an attempt to resolve relations from Serbia, without a referendum in Montenegro? Will you tell us in a year – yes, but in reality it works differently and it is our obligation to open our eyes and accept what is real. Is there a single market in the state community or does it not exist? Is the same relationship of goods coming from Montenegro to Serbia and the relationship of goods coming to America? Will the same regulations be applied or not? (Milan Parivodić, from the place: No. Mr. Minister, don't throw it away, come out for a pay phone and say no. But just because you say no to this pay phone doesn't mean anything to me. If you won't, you should have written it in the law, and that would have meant something. You need to understand that you're here today, and you're not here tomorrow. The minister is an extremely variable category. So, from your promise, whether it's true or not, I'm not getting into it... You may be sincere when you say you will not, but you will be replaced in a month, so someone will say, "What I care what he says, here is what is written in the law." It is not the speech of the Minister of the Republic Assembly that applies what the National Assembly adopts as law. Article 18, the term says "exclusive law". I'd like the minister to explain to me what that means. It's another one of those pointless names I wanted to warn you about. Then, Article 34 says that dumping, within the meaning of this law, is imports of goods into the Republic at a cost lower than the normal value of that goods. What does normal value mean? This is one of those expressions that certainly doesn't belong to this one alone, but to any law. If the price is not normal, it means it's abnormal. I don't know if this government has begun to prescribe abnormal prices. In a short time, as long as I had time to look at this law, I found at least four expressions that would suit this member better. It would be better to say that dumping, within the meaning of this law, imports of goods into the Republic at a price lower than the normal value of that goods, at a price lower than the average value of that goods, at a price lower than the market value of that goods, at a price lower than the real value of that goods. So any of these expressions would be better if you took them. If I were to sit down, I guarantee I'd come up with at least four more, but here are four expressions that are better than "normal value of this stuff." There's no normal and abnormal value. The value can be marketable, realistic, but it can't be abnormal. This inaccuracy is huge. Who in the Serbian government is normal enough to decide what is normal and what is not normal? What does this look like? This is completely pointless. That's exactly what you have in Section 3, and it can't possibly stand in the law. Look at Article 34, point 2; it's like "the kingdom of horses," because whoever manages to understand the meaning of this provision, I express my personal admiration to him. It says: "Home production is the total total production of domestic producers of the same or similar goods, which is a major part of the total domestic production of the goods". I will read to you once again: "Home production is the total total production of domestic producers of the same or similar goods, which is a major part of the total domestic production of the product. "So no one in this room can, nor can the minister... Minister, you can bring in three other associates to hand you papers, but whoever explains what this means, I'm really taking off his hat. This was the definition of domestic production. But who wasn't lazy, so he said - it's ridiculous, the law, I don't want to read it anymore, but he got to article 55, he can find a new definition of domestic production. It says here: "Home production is a joint production of all domestic producers of the same, similar or directly competitive goods, or domestic producers whose combined production of such goods represents more than 50% of the total domestic production of these goods." So, it's as pointless as the definition in Article 34, but here you question whether the definition in Article 34 or Article 55 is valid. So you can't define certain terms by the same law in two different ways. You had to make up your mind, to say this -- this or whatever it is, we'd be criticizing, but you can't define it in different ways. Then, a member of 37 can see the position of the Serbian Radical Party, what should be done with the money obtained from charging compensation fees. Our proposal is to add Article 37 to Article 2 which reads: "The funds charged in accordance with the provisions of this article are the revenue of the Republic and can be used exclusively to eliminate the consequences of the imports of the goods concerned. "So, if the dumping price causes damage in an area and if the state responds and collects compensation taxes and achieves a certain income, the only purpose and purpose of it can be to reroute that money to those who are dumped prices and thus bring domestic production into an even position. So, there must be no point, if someone is already damaged in Serbia, the state takes some income, so that Mladjan Dinkic puts it in his pocket and says - I have a surplus. So if you're already charging for something and protecting a manufacturer, then at least that money you charge to that manufacturer and help him out a little bit. Furthermore, Article 42 states that interested persons, including particularly those using the goods concerned in the production, as well as representative consumer organisations, may participate in the investigation process in order to protect their interests. The minister said he was trying to get some old, outdated communist provisions thrown out of this, but this "representative consumer organisations" reminds me of the "representative union organisations". And, in this way, you want to double-cross the citizens of Serbia, to determine who you think is a representative of consumers, who will be good enough to negotiate with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be the same individuals that negotiate with the government on union rights and always end up meeting various political requirements that unions should never deal with. On the occasion of the provisional measures, it is said in Article 48(2) that the Government may impose provisional measures at the end of the 60-day period from the date of initiation of the procedure. Our proposal was here to shorten that deadline, as was the case in Article 44, where it is said that the Ministry, before making the decision on the existence of dumping, informs the parties in the procedure and the interested persons about the essential facts and invites them to plead within 30 days. Our proposal is to cut the deadline to eight days. You can't let someone who's trying to take over a particular market give 30 days to plead. So, you have to notice that it's done and someone starts the initiative and starts the government, so you can call them, then 30 days, and then you can come up with a solution, and then you can publish it in the official messenger, and then 30 more days. If this solution is accepted, it will probably take you a year and a half to make any decision. During that time domestic production, any product you choose can be destroyed. It can't, it's a rare domestic enterprise that can handle, without the support of the state, foreign competition for a long time; it can do 10, 15, 20 days, half a year or a year neither. How many of those are there? He can't. Tell me how many of these companies are in Serbia. It is said here in the condition that the government, on a proposal from the Ministry, can introduce protection measures against excessive imports. And then there's another completely wrong definition here, he says, "The danger of serious damage is a serious damage that is undoubtedly inevitable on the basis of the established facts. "If that damage is inevitable, then there is no danger of damage, then it is a future damage. So, don't, these terms have long been right and theoretically and practically sufficiently enlightened. Take some things from what legal science has already given. Do not make what was undeniable now so that it may be contentious in some future period. In the end, it is said in Article 74. (or else, the Serbian Radical Party predicted that the government, in order to improve external trade, could prescribe conditions for the return of customs duties, taxes, parts of the train, as well as other incentives. This authority to this government, and to any other government, should not be given in hands. In this way you can favour this and that under cover, and without the public, without the Assembly, without any relevant knowledge. This way, you can bring importers and exporters into an unequal position, and I don't know why you would now give someone away without giving them. Why would someone return part of customs duties, part of taxes or anything else, and someone else wouldn't? So you definitely shouldn't be doing this. What's still very interesting is the criminal provisions. We are used to these laws that are passed in the National Assembly, when it comes to citizens of Serbia, when it comes to laws relating to your profiteers, to tycoons, and I don't know who, Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, Cepter, Dracula and all other businessmen who are close to the Government and who financed your parties and foreigners when they came to power... When it comes to the citizens of Serbia and when they need to get their skin off their backs, they are in the criminal provisions of the fines prescribed by the dragons. Then it's hundreds of thousands of dinars for minimum violations, about 50, 100, about a million dinars, two million dollars, you don't know how much anymore. When it comes to the law on foreign trade, you only have two members relating to criminal provisions. The amounts envisaged are: the maximum amount is 250,000 dinars, from 25,000 to 250,000 dinars; for example, for the responsible person from 2,500 to 25,000 dinars, etc. Or 12,500 to 125,000. So in this sentence, which is intended to be the largest, from 25,000 to 250,000, this projected minimum is extremely small. What does it mean to someone who deals seriously with foreign trade and where millions and billions of fines of 25,000 dinars turn? Of course it doesn't mean anything. Or 2,500 dinars for a responsible person. Will you tomorrow punish Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, who made millions and billions on imports of electricity, with 2,500 dinars? It is a shame that you have such penalties prescribed and you better say: do what you want, we will not punish you, you are white bears, but to prescribe a fine of 2,500 dinars. That's why you're going to be selling a kilo of bread to a baker who doesn't type a fiscal bill to close the bakery for 30 days and charge him 200,000 dinars, and then it's not much. I urge you to try at government meetings to make some common concepts, to take a little more account of the citizens of Serbia and a little less of your business partners. For this law, such as the Serbian Radical Party and its MPs will certainly not vote, and I hope that you will accept at least some of our amendments and how much of this punitive law will fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20876	I thank Mr. Sarovic. I've told you nicely that you have as much time as you want. I promised you you'd have as much time as you want. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Mr Jovanovic, wait a minute, the word is for Minister Parivodic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to have to go to the session, at 1400 hours to discuss the budget, so I have to defend the budget for my ministry so that people don't stay hungry, that's the problem, so I wanted to answer your remarks. First, I want to thank all the MPs who discussed it and because I...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20878	Mr. Markovic, please... Mr. Sarovic, you're calm, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20879	So, I want to thank all the MPs who, I must say, with my seeing things, very competently commented on this proposal. I want to thank those MPs who praised him, and I am particularly pleased, because the team that worked on the law has put a great deal of effort into writing this law. Also, I want to thank those who criticized him, for assessing that these criticisms were constructive, except for this last comment; that you said it was a freak law, that's your political show. I see the SRS has no fundamental objection. The Serbian Radical Party has constructive objections, which we will take very seriously, and some think we will adopt. I'm saying, thank you right for your constructive approach. I have to admit I was entertained by Mr. Sarovic's presentation. I assume you're an education lawyer, on your way to becoming a good lawyer. You see, what you're saying is, first of all, this thing about the rubrum, about the title, I totally agree; it can't be written "conditions" without the meaning of the terms. "exclusive rights," that's the same thing, the rubrum has to be described, it can't contain one word that means nothing. I completely agree with that comment, and I must admit I missed it. With regard to these edges, I like the rubrum to contain a thought, not a word. As far as the language of the law is concerned, you didn't really know what you were saying, because you didn't draw any conclusions. You were talking about the language of criminals in the Criminal Code, and that's cute as a joke, but it's not serious. You said that the law should be written in the language of the people, but also legal, and understood by the businessmen, so I didn't understand whether it should be written in the language of the people, in the professional language, in the pure legal language or in the language used in the economic jargon. I advocate that the law that is intended for businesses be written in a clear language that is used by those who are subject to that law to which it is intended. They need to understand it, and they don't need to use any coloquial expressions, not high-priced legal expressions, which I do know very well, in order to write that law. I've been throwing my tongue out of the law, even though I'm naturally prone to it, because it's my job to make it understandable to everyone. I am going through these comments, and there have been very constructive comments and other MPs, but these comments made by Mr. Sarovic mainly include criticism by the Serbian Radical Party, so I will therefore come down, given the short time, on them. As far as agriculture is concerned, Ms Natasa Jovanovic mentioned this very provision that you are criticising from Article 1(2) is governed by the following thought – this law is governed in a general way by the regime of external trade, and Article 2 says that a special law can regulate external trade for certain types of goods, i.e. services. Therefore, no other law can in general derivate this law, but a special law can implement a specific regime for limited goods or services. That's the meaning of that provision. In that sense, agriculture is subdued by that point 2 which you wish to delete. Agriculture is not subject to a general contract on trade and tariffs of the World Trade Organisation. There is a special agreement on agriculture and agriculture is privileged and will be privileged by special law in relation to this general regime provided for by this law. As for the 30-day deadline for entry into force of the measure, the law is not written for criminals, the law is written for a decent world. It is not the aim of the law that is meant for businesses to prevent one or two percent of small-minded people from carrying out their pranks, but it is my primary goal that those 98% of honest people have one normal environment in which they will operate, and let the criminal police, UBPOK, deal with these 2%. I don't want to make life miserable to a decent world for 2% of criminals. In that sense, the 30-day provision for the entry into force of the measure implies the following: in the economy it is important to have some predictability and if you have one regime, so there is a change in the regime by introducing a certain measure of protection of the anti-dumping system, it is necessary to give people time to fulfill a contract that has already been concluded. You have a conflict between an already concluded contract based on regulations that are in effect and changes in the regime that the state imposes. At least one transit period should be provided for this interregnum. Mr. Sarovic, please listen to me, because you've given me a lot of comments and you can learn something. So in this sense, there is a transit period, because economies need predictability. On the other hand, when we have a particularly acute situation, for these situations we have temporary measures that take effect on the eighth day of publication. But trust me, it's not going to happen often. It's a rare situation when it's going to happen. It's a normal situation that you don't have anti-dumping measures. The point is that anti-dumping is almost not applied in most EU countries. It is sometimes applied in major economies, sometimes a small economy, but rarely applied, because it is a procedure that is quite complex, which is foreseen as such by the World Trade Organisation principles and there are no sudden interceptions of the situation. So we have temporary measures that actually lead to the effect that you have stated, that it is necessary to react urgently within 30 days. As far as the idea of a foreign person is concerned, you should distinguish between the concept of a tax resident and a non-resident and the notion of a foreign or domestic person in a foreign trade business, i.e. in foreign investment. This provision contained in this draft refers to this regime of foreign investment and foreign trade, and the tax residence comes down to the physical presence of 183 days in the Republic, according to tax laws, and it has nothing to do with each other, so you've confused the concepts here. As for Montenegro and their regime, you are aware, Mr. Sarovic, that Montenegro has its own law on foreign trade. Mr. Sarovic, are you aware that Montenegro has its customs law? Are you aware, Mr. Sarovic, of the circumstances that Montenegro represents a separate customs territory within the Serbia-Montenegro community? Given all these circumstances, the EU and the World Trade Organisation have made it possible to double the track, because they are aware that two economic systems are governed by different regulations. This law reflects this situation and do not engage in demagogy. As for normal value, I completely agree with your comment; when you introduce an antidote then see if the expression is good. You said there was no abnormal value, so I totally agree that the expression is linguistically bad. It is, in fact, a translation of the World Trade Organisation's contract and represents just one language that is understandable in these 148 countries, and as far as language commentary is concerned, you are absolutely right. As for the concept of domestic production, we in law have one concept of domestic production in Article 34, and in Article 55, the second term of domestic production. However, both of these concepts are contained in certain sites, which suggests that the first concept of domestic production refers to dumping and that the second concept of domestic production refers to protection against excessive imports. The first definition is translated from the anti-dumping agreement, and the second is translated from the safeguards contract, so that it represents adequate translations of those regulations specifically referred to by this law. I would like to pay attention to the fact that international regulations have a compromise on the Constitution and the laws of this country in terms of direct legal application. These are provisions of the Constitution of Serbia and the Constitutional Charter of Serbia-Montenegro. In that sense, when we become members of the World Trade Organisation, which is the undisputed goal of all of us, these contracts will have direct application and superior power over internal law. In order to be able to enter the system of rules of the World Trade Organisation before that time of accession, which we expect to be in 2008, in an appropriate and harmonised way, and to learn to apply these regulations in an appropriate manner, we have introduced the rule that this law should be interpreted in accordance with the principles of the EU and the World Trade Organisation in order to avoid being offended by any disharmonic practice that we would subsequently harmonize when we become members of the World Trade Organisation and the EU. So much for that, so don't even use that argument for political points, because I'm trying to be professional. As regards the deadline laid down in Article 44 of the 30th day for the declaration, that is the procedure adopted by 148 countries and which is a standard in international trade relations. We cannot step aside from that if we want to be members of the World Trade Organisation. As I was saying, all these procedures are not rapid, they are simply so established in the World Trade Organisation's contracts and they usually involve broad consulting processes. That's why there are these 30 days, it's not something that we've come to think of to extend the process, but it's simply a consistent integration of the rules of the World Trade Organisation. As for the concept of serious damage or the danger of serious damage referred to in Article 55, you need to distinguish the current from the potential damage. These are concepts known in the right of competition, also known here. Remember when Milos Obrenovic heard that some major wanted to kill him so they told him - we can't arrest him, he hasn't killed you yet; he says - so what, he should kill me and then arrest him? That's the difference between actual and potential. This duality of the concept of serious damage, or the risk of serious damage, should be prevented. As for erasing Article 74, I completely agree. As far as punishment is concerned, I agree they're inappropriately low. And, once again, I thank all MPs for a very constructive contribution. I understand that the Serbian Radical Party in essence, not taking into account the political situation you are in as an opposition party, supports the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20880	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Mr. Sarovic, if it's so important to you, while the minister is here, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20881	Mr. Angelkovic, I don't care about that, as I don't care what the Minister's obligations are. You violated the Rules of Procedure because you were obliged to, in the capacity of the Prime Minister's chairman, who obviously didn't understand where his place was and who thought he could come here and insult the MPs. (President: Mr. Sarovic, I did not warn you when you called him, but it is only the question of the same arch. Mr. Minister, we are elected representatives of the people here. It may be something that you will sometimes be or will not be, but only when you are in this situation will you be able to speak to the other MPs equally here. Until then, you should be aware that you are a civil servant, a clerk who is here from today until tomorrow. The question is whether you'll be in a month or two, but what's clear is that neither today nor in a month, if you're in that place, you won't and you can't be even with us. So if anyone needs to learn anything, then the one who sent you here before that should have taught you the basics of decency and taught you that you can't teach anyone here or that you teach anyone else. You're here to say if you agree with anything, you disagree. Yours is strictly professional in dealing with what needs to be done. You say you write the law for a decent world, not for two percent of criminals. Those two percent criminals take 98 percent of the profits. To a decent world, if you're already writing a law for them, and if they're so decent, then the law doesn't have to. The laws are being written right now to limit those who are not so polite, so those two percent of your true coalition partners. Since you say you must go to defend your ministry's budget and that you will no longer listen to what the MPs say here, I ask for a break, as Mr Markovic has promised, until the minister's presence is ensured here. Whether, as Mr. Parivodić says, his ministry will be hungry, I don't know, but one thing's for sure -- that he's already calmed his stomach a while ago, while we've been taking a break here. Mr. Parivoditch, what you haven't been able to figure out is maybe because there was blood in your stomach, and then you didn't have enough capacity up there to process what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20882	The way you sow, that's how you read, Mr. Sarovic. Don't be surprised when you get the same answer. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my huge apology, it's only my fault, I didn't know how long it was, and I had to talk to this delegation in a small room, apologize on behalf of the vice president and in my personal name for waiting. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Miljko Cetrovic will have the word of the MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20884	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia report and ask that I be allowed the same time for this announcement as is allowed to Radoslav Jovic in the afternoon session. It's about a time of nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20885	Mr. Cevrovich, I'm sorry, but you know how tightly I am with the Rules of Procedure. I can be tolerated, but, of course, if someone made a mistake and gave someone a time that didn't belong to him, and this is the National Assembly, and we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sure I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, I'll be tolerated, but I'm asking you without any invitation to anything that's ever been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20886	Okay, Mr. President, I'll see to it that I respect this warning, but I hope you'll be more tolerated. Radoslav Jovic is in the morning... He's not here right now, but he's supposed to be there, because he hasn't been in this National Assembly in five months, he only comes when he's supposed to be making a voting quorum, like a key MP. This same Radoslav Jovic, as president of the municipality, of the 15-session SO Kraljevo was present only at four sessions, although the president of the Kraljevo municipality, the executioner of the municipal budget, although the budget of a billion and 250 million for 2005, was not found appropriate, he humiliated SO Kraljevo's council members, humiliated the citizens of the Kingdom municipality who chose SO Kraljev. Many of the points, according to the statutes, are under the authority of the president of the municipality, to be a proposing, in connection with the call for meetings, including the agenda itself, he did not find it appropriate to attend these sessions. He should not have come to the meetings of SO, for he must not face the harsh reality of a catastrophic local government that he leads to in the municipality of Kraljevo. The government's consequences for the entire municipality's interest, including most or all of the kings' citizens, are devastating. He mentioned today in the afternoon opening for this pay phone that I took a loan from the Jugobank of 130 thousand marks. It's a lie, and I can't expect anything else from a man who doesn't have morals and dignity. I thought as a man he had little morals and dignity. So, he made public at press conferences, which lasted 25 minutes, then 15 minutes, that if the election commission of the royal and municipal court refuses his objections and complaints he will resign and there will be no statements from the citizens. Unfortunately, he stepped on those words himself, and that just proves he has no morals or dignity at all. To tell such a man that he's ashamed doesn't make any sense, because that man has no cheek. The man has no face, because since 1997, when the Coalition "Together" assumed power in the municipality of Kraljevo, he was president of the SO, there was an oil robbery for democracy in which he participated, DHSS Vice President Dr Predrag Stojanovic; they were not called to criminal responsibility, some municipal administration workers were called. The criminal proceedings are not closed, but unfortunately the citizens of the municipality of Kraljevo from the municipality's budget should be paid about four million dinars for damages to those workers who have lost their jobs, so they are now returned to the municipal administration. Whether it makes sense and whether it has the dignity of the president of the municipality that he did not find it appropriate for a year and a half to propose three other members of the municipal council, rudely violating the statutes of the municipality. The municipal council is working illegally and illegally. He did not find it appropriate to make a decision on calling elections for local community councils, although the mandate expired in February of this year. That's proof of what kind of man it is. The proof is what happened last night on TV Kraljevo, on that television that is "shurakovizija", his brother-in-law is the director of the TV Royal and Public Enterprise "Ibar News". They brought Dragoljub Karic in last night. In addition to the other vomits he spent more than an hour on TV Kraljevo, probably in an agreement at the Jelena villa made up of Jovic, Velja Ilic and Karic, Dragoljub Karic eventually gave the citizens of the Kings a message that the MPs live in abundance, that they have salaries of over 500 thousand, that each MP has at least two luxury cars and that they should go to their homes and apartments, invite their wives, mothers and children and ask for all the problems with such MPs to solve them. At this point, I declare that, as a national MP, I have a 16-year-old car, it's "aleko mosquiche", I don't have two luxury cars, I don't have a salary of 500,000 dinars, I don't have a salary here in the Serbian Parliament, as Karic said, a hair salon, a beauty salon, and I don't have any other privileges. That's the point when it comes to me. But this same Jovic, along with the others, when he humiliated all the citizens of the Kingdom Municipality and the workers of Elektron, Poljopromet, the Old Jasen and the other companies that were privatized, who did not want to receive, who were miserable, lost their jobs, without bread, did not want to receive... His job was to receive, allegedly, foreign delegations, to take pictures, to hold press conferences, to travel, to fraternize with so-called. To the brother city of Maribor, the former mayor proposes to be an honorary citizen of the Kraljevo municipality, who was elected to the honorary post. This year, the Kingdom Municipality Assembly held no regular session with agenda points from July 17, 2005 to today, with key problems for the city and the municipality. The Minister of Local Self-Government doesn't think about it either... (President: I warn you, speak for six minutes. )......................................................................................................... who gave his opinion and signed, as Minister for Local Self-Government, where the signatures need to be verified under the Act of Oversight. Unfortunately, that same potter is a professor of law school. I am ashamed of such a professor of law school, because I also graduated from law school, not in Novi Sad, but in Belgrade. Is it possible for such a man to teach law at the Law School in Novi Sad?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20887	Thank you, Mr. Four. Anyone else want a word with the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20888	I'm referring to Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what hit you so much that they say they all have two cars and they can solve problems. I guess everyone knows that Dragomir Karic, the poor in God, has nothing, and he earned everything by honest work. What to do; if you think anyone in the state of Serbia thinks that, you're wrong. Serbian citizens know who honest people are, and they know who real thieves are. As for what I've come to say, it's something we'd have to talk about today, which is why this hall shouldn't be empty or empty, or almost empty, whatever you want. That was a statement last night by Boris Tadic, which we could see in the news shows last night, which scandalized the entire Serbian public, concerned about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must react. The Serbian Radical Party is very concerned about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the fact that Boris Tadic should resolve something about Kosovo and Metohija requires an urgent call for a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on which the main topic will be our position on Kosovo and Metohija. Why did I say that? For those who did not follow the news or who did not read the newspaper, Boris Tadic said – we have some things that are in our favor, but we have many that are not coming. The one we're not doing is the right to self-determination of peoples in Kosovo and Metohija. Now we in the Serbian Radical Party are asking three questions: why is there no right to self-determination in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia; where is his right to self-determination of the Serb people in Republika Srpska; where is his right to self-determination of the Serb people in the occupied Serbian province? Whether everyone else has the right to self-determination, which is not the principle of the UN and nowhere in the world has been applied in such a way, and he says it is possible for us, and I don't remember that it was the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or any other state body. It's just a matter of work. Let's ask which smart guy taught him to talk like that. I know he's not a lawyer, I know he doesn't know anything, he has no idea what he's talking about. All that matters is how many mirrors they're gonna be and what they're gonna say. I don't mind that, but we say this as people who are concerned about Serbia's future, as people who, if you want, fear what can happen in the country and out of fear and responsibility, I came out to say this. Today, the Serbian Radical Party issued a statement, give people a session of the National Assembly, that not every unfortunate person comes out to say what is coming. That foreign minister called... I made a sharper statement for the paper, and I'm not going to make that statement from this pay phone. No name, I don't know how to call a man like that, say he's an idiot, it's a little bit. He shows up and says -- don't take part in the Serbian Radical Party talks. One who has 2% of the electoral body does not allow a party that has almost 40%. He says that the moment we all insist on unity. You want to run a negotiation, you want to take a picture, you think you're raising a rating to yourself? Push yourself, take a picture, look for mirrors, be very smart, we will not stick a knife in the back of the country, but we will ask you where the territory of the Republic of Serbia is, and you make your plans. I can think of a wonderful team to lead a man like that, or I don't know what he's doing. They dared. I look you in the face, representatives of the ruling majority, someone who has 2% in the constituency; he will disrupt unity, as well as Boris Tadic, the entire state and the people. He'll say, "This one can, this one can't." We won't, and now what? Did that solve his problems? We're not pushing anywhere. Tomislav Nikolic won't take a picture and he doesn't need it. I'm telling you again, we're not going to stick a knife in the back of the state at any point in discussion about the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Let's calm those unfortunates of yours down, teach them a lesson. Call them or send them to the right places, at the "Uncle in White" to solve problems with him. Because we have one country, we have one Serbia, we don't have five, so everyone, as he thinks, can do something similar and talk. Let them say that, I reacted this way for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. As far as our party is concerned, we're not angry at all, let them say it, the more such political mice attack us, the bigger our ratings, we don't worry at all. Please consider this, consult with the Prime Minister and all the important state officials, tell them that we all sit down, 248 of us, so let's all sit here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and see what we do about it. These two-percent geniuses, which will now reduce the censorship to 3%, since it is their only chance, when they invest 10m euros, that they can fail with a stick up to 3.01%, leave it at home or send it to competent institutions, but no longer interfere in serious matters, because it is the interest of the Serbian state. And the interest of Serbia and the interest of our people in Kosovo and Metohija is much more than their political interests to increase their censorship to 3%. Remember, we have one country and we don't play around with it. This is far more important than the law on foreign trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20889	Thank you. I understand that you have called on Article 104 to strengthen your respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, not your remark. I can only, on behalf of all MPs, make it quite clear to the public that there are no dilemmas, of course, it is a key topic that you are talking about, and not just you, these days -- unity, then solidarity, then compromise, and not vice versa. In this, the National Assembly will certainly have a decisive word. This will be the responsibility of the negotiating team, which are the executive authorities, to account for it and to agree with the representatives of the people. They are exclusively representatives of this congregation. I don't think there's any dispute here, as there's no dispute that's crucial that this country has to be as strong as possible, that means everyone does their job. In that sense, there is the patience of all here and the willingness to do our job at any time when we can, even now. Thank you all for understanding. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20890	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to begin the presentation of the reasoning that the proposer gave with this bill, in a piece entitled "The Reasons for the Law on Foreign Trade". I quote: "The existing Foreign Trade Act is restrictive, in modern conditions it prevents the development of economic relations with abroad and is an obstacle to the accession of the WTO and the EU in particular." It is also said: "Starting from Friday's changes, the government reasonably interprets and implements the existing law, but a reasonable interpretation of restrictive law is insufficient to establish a safe reform legal framework for this key area of economic relations with abroad. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed law on foreign trade is urgent and necessary. "These are, therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law. So, the existing law is restrictive and does not allow, according to the proposal, the quality of our country's integration into the WTO and the EU. I must remind the ministry gentleman, since the minister is not present, that official statistics speak a little differently or that reality is a little different. Namely, the existing, still applicable law allowed the Republic of Serbia and, during sanctions, to cover imports with 50% of exports. We had a smaller deficit than we do now, and now, five years after your democratic changes, when these alleged geniuses came to power, we now have import coverage with exports of about 30%. It's statistics, it's official, which is confirmed by your official authorities. Even during DOS authorities, we had, perhaps for the first time in recent history, that the imports of agricultural products were higher than the exports of these same agricultural products. It's never happened before in this country. So, even during the sanctions, we were increasingly exporting agricultural products than we were importing, but during so-called. DOS authorities, and that's what happened. I will make several remarks on this proposal, given that the short time I have is at my disposal. I'll start with another head, which refers to quantitative restrictions and permits. Article 17, which refers to the allocation of quotas, states that quotas are allocated, according to point 2, according to the order of admission, to the allocation of quotas, within a period which cannot be longer than 15 days from the date on which the applicant submitted the prescribed documentation. Namely, the proposer proposes that quotas be allocated on the basis of a public call and according to the order of reception. So, the minister will call a public call and the interested entities will register and receive quotas according to order. This is a space for various abuses. The minister can inform someone who's his friend, and whoever's doing this job or interested, that he's gonna call a public call tomorrow. It will already compete tomorrow and appear with a request and will, under this criterion, be the first and receive a quota for imports or exports of certain products. Also, point 1) speaks of conditions for the allocation of quotas. However, the conditions are not strictly stated in this bill. In point 3) it is said that the decision on the allocation of the quota contains the conditions, but these conditions are not prescribed in the law, and point 5 again calls for conditions, which do not again stand in the draft law. So it doesn't make sense to mention three places in these terms without these conditions being contained in this law, so they're not clear and strictly prescribed, they're going to be in the very decision that you're assigning quotas to one of the interested entities. I also want to point to part three, which is protection measures, where it says the government can introduce several measures of protection, specifically four. These are: anti-dumping duties, compensatory duties, protection measures against excessive imports and measures to protect the balance of payments. One stands - anti-dumping and compensatory duties, Article 34, where the concepts themselves are spoken, and point 2) explains what dumping is and is said: "Dumping in the sense of this law is imports of goods into the Republic at a price lower than the normal value of that goods," and further states what that means. I again point to what Mr. Sarovic was saying here and what he pointed to, which is the very term "normal value of goods", which means normal value of goods and whether there is an abnormal value of goods. But I'm not going to repeat what is already said, but I'm saying that this mechanism, which is later prescribed here and explained in the following points for determining this value of goods, is very complex, that it can be subject to some doctoral dissertation, but that it can't be part of the legal text and that it will take a lot of time to determine whether a price is normal or not normal, or why it falls under this term of dumping. Also, Article 51 speaks of a time limit within which an examination procedure must be completed. It is said that this procedure ends no later than 12 months from the day of launch. So when the test procedure begins if there are conditions to apply these measures, it remains 12 months. Please consider what happens if, if we assume, someone imports goods at dumped prices and you wait 12 months and question whether there are conditions to apply these safeguards that you have prescribed. It will sell goods and place them on our market, I suppose it is goods that do not meet the daily needs of customers, but some technical goods that are bought once in 10, 15 or 20 years. What's going on with our producers? They are permanently damaged, they are closed, our market will no longer need that goods, because all the products that have arrived at these prices will be absorbed within a very short time, and you have a year to investigate, and only when you carry out the examination will you have 45 days to decide to introduce some of the protective measures that you provide for this law. The third measure is to protect against excessive imports. And there are two measures here, which are the quantitative restriction of imports of certain goods or the introduction of additional import duties on imports of certain goods. In the case of this additional duty, Article 58 states that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, may, in urgent cases, impose a provisional rate of additional import duty, for a maximum period of 200 days, if established in the examination procedure. I don't know what emergency measures mean. If the test procedure is conducted, the measure is not urgent. So it's been examined, it's been established, there are conditions and reasons, it's being measured, and I don't see what emergency means in this case here. Also, it's unclear why exactly 200 days, where you found it and what it's connected to. It is also said in Article 3(3): "If the examination procedure finds that the increased imports did not cause or threaten to cause serious damage to domestic producers, the amount charged on the basis of Article 1 of this Article shall be returned without delay". Gentlemen, if the process of testing determines that there is damage, serious damage or assumption that there will be this damage, then there can be no mistake. Who could be wrong? The one who made the mistake of making up for the damage. In the end, to finish this exposure to the finding that all these measures you've proposed here, which are cash, all these revenues are budget revenues. So it's all in the budget. It is not mentioned anywhere in the law whether part of these funds, based on the protection of domestic producers, will be allocated to those who are most at risk, affected by these measures, which we are considering to protect them here, or why these funds are not intended to be fully transferred to producers affected by dumped prices, excessive imports, etc. It is not possible that everything goes into the budget, and that those who are most indirectly affected will be left without any compensation, subsidies for the damage they will suffer, and they will suffer damage, because their production will be extinguished after this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20891	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I saw, according to the Rules of Procedure, just to ask one question before that. Mr. Dejansky, since you only have a minute and a half, that's not enough for you, I suppose? That's enough for you. Then before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf, here you go. Just so I know, it's because of the order in which they're reported for the word. It's all right, there you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's such a serious subject that we talked about earlier and where I asked you to, and you can call it by strengthening the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we've got a new piece of paper. You know that the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, following a statement by members of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, has declared that they have been threatened by human and minority rights and are demanding a change of status and relations in the Republic. Now I've got a new paper from SO Vršac, from SO Alibunar, the presidents of the municipality are being sent a request, I'll read it to you. "According to complaints from locals of some Romanian-lived settlements, such as Vršac, Vlajkovac, Alibunar, Nikonics, Vladimirovac, the General Directorate of the Romanian Community in Serbia requires that the inscriptions, i.e. the mention of topographic inscriptions of the name of the place and streets with predominantly Romanian life be pointed out in Romanian native language. The Romanian community's general directorate in Serbia demands that under the Constitutional Charter, the Law on Local Self-Government, and everything within the jurisdiction... "and so on. to go with that too, etc. Pressure continues, and Jon's boots are signed. Why did I say that? He signed a man now entering the DS. So we don't have anything against any demands from any of the people in this country. If it continues this way with pressures, these pressures are directed towards Kosovo and Metohija. All that is said, which is directed towards Kosovo and Metohija, then let someone come to mind and say, so let Belgrade secede, there are only 78-79% of Serbs in Belgrade, less than in Vojvodina. Let them tear us all apart, but when they take away and beat us with a stick on our heads, they'll make us scream how nice we are and how nice we are; don't let us do it. The major and inconclusive damage yesterday's statement by Boris Tadic has caused this country, a frightening damage. How does the President of the Republic behave and I didn't talk about it before? He is looking, he says -- the rest of the damage from Slobodan Milosevic and the SRS. Is that the president of Serbia? First, his party supported the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan and the Kumanov capitulation. Is that his job? He is the president of Serbia, the president of all citizens of this country. He should be ashamed and ashamed. He shares parties on Kosovo and Metohija. The President of the Republic. He gives them the right to self-determination. He makes an argument to the Albanians. He tells them what to insist on and what to do, only he doesn't schedule how and how to do it. It is not a question of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. Neither in the Lower Lapca nor in Vojnić what Serbs will do. He doesn't care because that's not what the bosses said. Tomorrow you'll have something like this from the Bulgarians, tomorrow you'll have something like this from the fifth, the sixth, the hundred of them, because Serbia has to be bankrupt, it has to be destroyed to the end. Do you want to stop it as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Or are you going to say again that doping law is more important than discussing it? Or to wait for when it comes that some get 3% of the censorship and that they can enter the Assembly again, whatever state. We'll suggest to you, let the censorship be 20-25% for us, and for some of you be 2-3%, however you like, whatever you want, write whatever you want, but let's do something about this. (President: Time. E, time. (President: Yes, time. It's time to realize there's something serious going on in the country. We told you two points ago, we told you that after that story about the threat of Hungarians in Vojvodina followed the same story and that it continued. It continued yesterday with the Croats, and today it continues with the Romanians, and what will we do then. Then somebody talk to those people and go and talk to the Romanians. This is their land. Let him talk to these Hungarians, this is their land. We want to destroy the country completely or only some will think about how they will appear on TV and how beautiful they will be when they are photographed and how they can throw Tom Nikolic out of the picture. He won't take a picture. You are very smart with your two or three percent, so decide on the fate of Serbia, but look, you have the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Pristina, and Pec, and Prizren and Gjilan, don't forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20893	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Since it was again a call to the Rules of Procedure, not an injury, there is no reason, of course, to make an explanation. I have to say again, since I'm not in a position to tell you about the pay phone, there's no other chairman. Once again I say, all of us, if we want to raise the self-respect and dignity of this congregation, we need to know that unity comes first. That means, I warn you, indeed, all speakers, we respect every percentage, we respect every MP, and in that sense, there is no need to highlight the differences, because it is now important to do something responsible in the right and only possible way, and certainly the National Assembly will continue to do what it did in the previous period, and it is important that European institutions, precisely for co-operation with national minorities. Here you go, Mr. Dejansky.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20894	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have a short period of time, I think it is clear to all citizens of Serbia that this law is bad. Nemanja Sarovic was particularly exhausted in explaining all the criticism of this law. I'd only use it to explain, since I'm a folk MP who comes from Vrsac, so I'd be able to reach out for these minutes and a half to what Mr. Vukic said before that. I'd just say that I, as a member of the SRS, feel threatened by a situation like this that tries to impose on Vrsca, in fact in our neighborhoods at all. I would just say that behind this letter signed by Jon Cismash stands DS, because in the past period from the post of AP Vojvodina, when they came with Bojan Pajtic, they tried to translate an entire nation into DS. We, by the way, have condemned as SO Vršac such one-brains as to return to our scene. Now the right result is being shown and the goal is what should be done. I can only say that this is discrimination against national minorities living here, so those who are similar to the Democratic Party, they're okay, and those who are not alike are wrong. So the DS continues its pestic activity in Serbia and tries to divide the people, even within one nation, into those who are and who are not. This has to be repeated regularly so we don't get credit for it and respect it for us. In Vrsac and around us, and Serbs and... There are 21 nations in Vrsca and all live well and never excess was. We had a visit from foreign journalists on Friday, and there were 24 accredited journalists from foreign diplomatic offices. We have statements from all of them that they have never seen a situation where people live in such good relationships as in villages with a majority Romanian national minority. After that, a memo like this arrives today, which only shows the Democratic Party's pest policy. (From O.R.: Time and theme. The time has long gone for you, and your hatred for Serbia will not pass this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20895	Whoever threw it, I really can't understand. Thank you, Mr. Dejansky. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Thank you. Transmit point 12 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DUVAN (principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9 plus 9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDP independent MPs and four independent MPs, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. We're not going to start a principle search until the motionary's representative arrives. I'm taking a break by 4:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. Once again, for those who did not hear this morning, today it is the conclusion of the principle debate on the 12th point - the draft tobacco law. Tomorrow and Friday, there will be no session, and Monday, due to the importance of the laws on the agenda, the principle debate on the Police Law proposal will begin at 10.00 p.m., which is the 13th item of the agenda. I am taking the opportunity to inform you that, since we have already opened a principled search of the draft tobacco law, representatives are authorised: in front of the SRS parliamentary group Veroljub Arsic; in front of G17 plus Branka Bosnjak and in front of Parliament club Nova Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 Free Zivkucin. We're continuing our work. Does Master Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20897	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us the tobacco law. As you know, this is an innovative version, because two years ago, the Serbian Parliament passed the tobacco law. However, given that there is a need to comply with EU standards in tobacco and tobacco production and transport, we have proposed a new tobacco law as a competent ministry. The most important newspapers in this law are, above all, fiscal aspects. We introduce the obligation to keep a register of manufacturers, tobacco growers, tobacco producers, wholesalers, importers and exporters of tobacco and tobacco products, to keep a record list of retailers on small tobacco products, as well as on natural persons of tobacco producers, in order to determine exactly who is involved in the field of growing and traffic of tobacco and to have better records for the collection of relevant fiscal revenues. Also, another important aspect: this law should ensure that excise revenues on tobacco processing, which during January - October 2005 amounted to 14.5 billion dinars, are permanent and allow for the regular financing of public expenditures of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, based on the collection of excise duties on tobacco processing in this year, the revenue was 34% higher compared to the same period last year, with a significant increase in excise duty on domestic cigarettes, bearing in mind that increased production in DIN and DIV, while significantly decreased imports of cigarettes from abroad. So the fiscal aspect is one of the reasons why we're passing a new tobacco law. However, this law also comprehensively regulates all procedures related to the production, processing and transport of tobacco and tobacco products. It also prevents illegal production and tobacco traffic to prevent the gray market. As you know, in the past, Serbia had a significant gray market for tobacco products. We now belong to countries that have the smallest size of the gray economy in the area of tobacco products in the region. The number can be measured by some percentage, one to two percent of total traffic is maximum in the gray market, which is drastically less than that period ten years ago. Also, what is new in this law, the law provides financial means for the implementation of disease prevention programmes resulting from the consumption of tobacco products, as well as the obligation of tobacco producers to use packaging with appropriate visible labels that indicate the harmfulness of smoking. Namely, I will now present a few details of this law, above all, regarding the effects on the protection of the health of our citizens. We're introducing a special extra dinar on every excise stamp that's being issued on the market, providing a billion and 100 million dinars in the following year. These funds will be used for preventive programmes to prevent diseases resulting from the consumption of tobacco products. So it's a newspaper in tobacco law. Each producer, i.e. the importer of cigarettes, will be obliged to pay one dinar per pack of cigarettes on the basis of the submission of a claim for the issue of excise stamps. So, every excise stamp - one dinar to prevent the harmful effects of smoking on people's health. That money, which is a billion and 100 million dinars, planned for the 2006 budget, will be transferred to a special budget fund at the Ministry of Health, but under this law it will be able to be used exclusively to implement preventive programmes to prevent these diseases resulting from smoking. In addition, in order to reduce the adverse consequences of over-consumption of tobacco products, this law introduces rules already in force in EU countries, which is the obligation of all those who place on the market and produce cigarettes to have appropriate inscriptions on these packs that will warn citizens of the harmful consequences of smoking. In particular, on one side of the pack will be a general warning that says: smoking kills, tobacco smoke damages people and your environment, by having on the other side of the pack and special warnings that will change quarterly and voice – smoking causes lung cancer, lip cancer, tongue cancer, vocal cord cancer and other, smokers’ children suffer more often from asthma, sore throat and middle ear. The obligation under this law is that the wording of the general warning must take at least 30 percent of the front of the package, and the text of a special warning at least 40 percent of the back of the pack, which means that it will have to be large letters that will be on the front of the 30 percent of the entire surface of the box, and 40 percent on the back. Also, the law prohibits the use of text - light, ultra-light, mild and other in Serbian, as well as in another language, which would suggest that the product is less harmful than other tobacco products. The marking of these products is thus carried out by manufacturers and importers of tobacco products and there is a obligation that each pack of cigarettes must contain data on tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide which will have to be reduced from 1 January 2006 to 1 January 2011 to 10 milligrams of tar, one milligrams of nicotine and 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide per cigarette. Unfortunately, now these quantities contained in our cigarettes are bigger and we have to keep an eye on it, this is a recommendation from the Ministry of Health, so the Ministry of Finance... That is, it has already incorporated all this into the text of the law, and it is in line with the standards that apply in EU countries. Since we expect this law to be passed at this session, we have provided for producers to be obliged to mark cigarette packages in this way starting on 1 January 2007. So a year is given to prepare new packagings, new packs, so as not to create losses, because it is still a process that requires appropriate time preparation. Once again, this will reduce the harmful impact of tobacco products on human health, and an additional 1.1 billion dinars will be collected based on this dinar on each excise stamp, which will buy equipment for health homes throughout Serbia and other preventive measures. In this way, in fact, smokers will voluntarily pay one dollar more for this excise stamp to reduce the harmful effects of smoking. This law also provides for the abolition of the tobacco agency and, instead, the establishment of a tobacco management at the Ministry of Finance, whereby the administration, which is given in transitional and final provisions, will take over employees from the current agency, as well as archives, all equipment and means of work, by adopting new sublegal acts prescribed by this law, will be subject to the sublegal acts currently in force and adopted under the current tobacco law, and the deadline is limited. Therefore, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law, the tobacco agency must stop working and tobacco management shall be formed. Also, a ban on the production, import and sale of cigarettes in packs containing less than 20 pieces of cigarettes is introduced, but as of 1 January 2010, so that those producers who may now have these products on the market can adapt in time and stop selling such products, because when you have a pack of 10 cigarettes, the price is lower, the cost is spent more, and then the impression that it is cheaper, and in fact it also hurts health as well as that pack of 20 cigarettes. We need to introduce that rule that normally applies in the largest number of EU countries, with the fact that, in order to still respect a fair competition, the adjustment deadline is valid until 1 January 2010. Also, the sale of cigarettes in machines is prohibited. It is, however, the kind of sales that did not even come to life here, but this way clearly forbids such possibility of selling cigarettes. This law prohibits the sale of cigarettes to minors, and retailers are less obliged to make it clear on their facilities that they are not allowed to buy cigarettes to minors, hence those who have not turned 18. It is possible to sell small tobacco products through special cabinets in cafes, so-called. Humidori, but under special conditions; he must certainly, therefore, be thought of this window, and have a fiscal register. This law also regulates other things that are important for the production and transport of tobacco, as well as the procedure itself. Finally, I would like to say that in the final and transitional provisions of the law, it is foreseeable, given that in the last period, in 2004 and 2005, anyone who is considered a domestic tobacco producer is obliged to give birth to at least 50 percent of the tobacco used in the production of the purchase on the domestic market, and given that in the last period, in 2004 and 2005, less tobacco was born than possible and that we want producers to encourage private tobacco growers, or peasants, that there is a transitional deadline, exclusively from Article 29 point 7 of this law, when producers will be obliged to buy 80 percent of the prescribed quantity in 2005, or 90 percent of the prescribed quantity laid down in Article 29(1) of the Law in 2006. This means that we will thus allow all tobacco products producers to meet the requirements laid down by law, in accordance with the currently available quantities of fermented tobacco on the Republic market. This transitional period is also necessary because it takes time to motivate tobacco producers to encourage the production of quality tobacco varieties in Serbia, in order to obtain the conditions for the 100% fulfilment of Article 29(1). Simply, at this point there is not enough quality domestic tobacco to satisfy 50 percent of production from domestic sources, but that is no reason not to train our domestic farmers to produce these better quality varieties, so we give this transitional deadline by 2007, until the manufacturers have to invest special funds to help farmers grow new, more quality tobacco varieties. Given that the Ministry of Finance is the proponent of this law, which was made together with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, and given that it will help further edit this area, I hope that most MPs of the National Assembly will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20898	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Just one explanation for those who heard that there was some noise – it was not tossing to the speaker, but to the president of the assembly, with the idea that ministers were preparing the president of the Assembly and some MPs, to finance two or three hospitals, so I don't know if I should give them up or thank them. To thank them. Thank you. There we will pay uniquely, both the position and the opposition. Do the representatives of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the orderly MPs submitted by the G17 plus and the SRS parliamentary groups, in reverse order of size, but I read the order to be spoken. The first is the word of the Messenger of the people Istvan Takac, and then the messenger of the people Rodoljub Gačević, and the messenger of Nadica Momirov, and the messenger of the people, Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Tucker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us a draft law on tobacco proposed by the Government, which will support the parliamentary group and MPs G17 plus. The proposal for a tobacco law with its 102 members regulates the flows of one agricultural plant that, by its specificity and consumption, on the one hand, and because of its very high fiscal inflow, on the other hand, has long turned into a very attractive product. Over hundreds of years, each state administration controlled movements of tobacco and tobacco products, with concrete goals of achieving financial revenues for the state. And today tobacco is a very important agricultural plant, which is grown throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and represents a good income for households involved. Regulation of the production of tobacco products, with serious requirements laid down in Article 26. Proposal for a law, which provides for the granting of authorisations for the production of tobacco products by tender and by Article 29. The draft law which provides for specific conditions and fulfils the specific financial and general obligations of producers, or future producers of tobacco products, there are realistic assumptions that the current situation on this market, following the adoption of this law, is stabilised. On the other hand, since the industrial production of tobacco cigarettes began, cigarette consumption has increased rapidly and more medical indications suggest a causal link between the production of certain diseases and the active and passive consumption of tobacco, i.e. tobacco products. Every society, with less or more success, defends itself from these problems. The National Assembly of this Call passed the Law on Advertising, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on 16. The 9th year, which regulates the way tobacco and tobacco products are advertised. I believe that the rules restricting advertising, or prohibiting the sale of tobacco and tobacco products to minors, represent a positive approach to this issue in order to protect the part of the population from the very early creation of the habit of using the same products. According to statistics, children are very early to consume and many of them are already becoming regular consumers of tobacco products in the adolescent period of life. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the proposal for a tobacco law that the proposer gave, I quote: "This bill will allow greater discipline of participants in the tobacco and tobacco products market, and therefore better control and prevention of the appearance of a gray economy in the production and transport of tobacco products, and thus more inflow of funds than public revenues into the budget." In order to ensure a consistent implementation of the control task, the draft law adopts a system for the establishment of a public register and records, Article 5. Proposal for a law, namely: for manufacturers, processors and manufacturers of tobacco products, for wholesale trade, for exporters and importers of tobacco and tobacco products and for a special register of brands of tobacco products. Registration is possible if the individual subject, who wishes to be registered, fulfils the conditions laid down by law, and the period of duration of registration is five years from the entry into the register, i.e. there is an obligation to renew the registration. I believe that the manuality of registration of entities, participants in the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products will, in the future, have a positive impact on the compliance with the prescribed requirements in this area of application, while at the same time affecting the pawning of each entity and participant to meet the prescribed requirement and to be competitively capable of a longer period of time. By forming a tobacco administration, as referred to in Article 3. The bill, instead of the tobacco agency so far, is a special emphasis on the fiscal character of this product group, controlling its flows. Given the high importance of these products and the fiscal importance for the Republic budget, which remains responsible for ensuring public spending financing, the measures and solutions set out in the draft tobacco law that prevent or mitigate uncontrollable flows of these products on the domestic market are justified. Control of all tobacco and tobacco flows is particularly regulated in Article 78. It's a bill of law. Due to the complexity of the problem of monitoring the implementation of the obligations under the tobacco law proposal, it is divided by the ministries: agriculture, health, trade and finance. I consider it particularly important to highlight the proposal's solution, as the minister said in the opening statement, under Articles 69 and 70, on the establishment of a budget fund to implement preventive programmes for the prevention of diseases associated with the consumption of tobacco products, which will be managed by the Ministry of Health Affairs. Furthermore, the companies so far registered with the tobacco agency are obliged to reregister themselves with the tobacco management within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this proposal, without special compensation, pursuant to Article 95. It's a bill of law. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, the G17 Group of MPs plus supports the draft tobacco law, which covers the issue in general in this area, and in the voting day will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20900	Thank you to the People's No-Smoking Messenger, Mr. Istvan Takatch. The word is issued by MP Rodoljub Gačević, also a non-smoker. The word is then received by MPs, smokers, Mr. Momir Markovic, Nadica Momirov, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20901	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, tobacco, cotton and vines have always been, and today, likely, the plants of the poor regions. Raising these cultures was nevertheless considered a poor business. Maybe that's how it is today. I would dare say that today, too. However, the production of tobacco and tobacco products, the placing on the market, and the few most profitable jobs, many of which would be engaged. If that wasn't the case, there wouldn't be tobacco smuggling, there wouldn't be a lot of mobs, or mob clans, international and domestic, etc. This tobacco business used to flourish, sometimes called, in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, famous snakes, and today it has been updated, with modern traffic across the sea, air, etc., and it has become one of the very lucrative jobs. Not to mention the Montenegrin mafia, which is especially known in Italy, but also throughout the world, not to speak to the Serbian public. For these reasons, it is certainly very important that this law be regulated, which so far has been deliberately unedited and unsettled in order to benefit precisely from crime, smuggling, corruption and all other negativity in this society, and to obtain enormous material goods and the like. Here this matter is treated through two areas, on the one hand, as tobacco production and tobacco production. I wouldn't be in a situation to analyze all this, but I'm going to try to say something about this very definition of what tobacco production is allowed to do, that is, to do this job. A valid permit is needed for the business to be done and that the business operator has five hectares of arable land. I guess the point is that it's a tobacco culture plant, so it has the ability to produce. However, nowhere in the law is said to be, but it is said in Article 9 that it owns five hectares of farmland. That means four can be under the corn and only one can be under the tobacco. If anyone has three hectares of farmland, he will not have the opportunity to get permission from the Ministry's Department for Production and Traffic of Tobacco, but will be expelled immediately from competition. What does that mean? It means that some will be favored, some will be in a position to be in an unequal position, or discriminated against. When it comes to tobacco production, it's said -- tobacco production means tobacco cultivation and tobacco processing. If it's about production, what does production even mean -- it's still the creation of some material goods, or even good at human work, by using some technology. What nature has created, and man deals with it, it's breeding. I think it would be very declassified to tell some farmer that he produces lambs, yards, etc.; he grows it, he does not produce it. The second thing is to display this part of the work as a production, i.e. as a preparation of production or as a processing, but the work, human work, some socially beneficial work, is being done, in order to obtain it. If that's the case, then you don't have to put these conditions in order to have five acres of land. If he cares about having a potted pot, one seedling, he can do tobacco growing, and whether he will have rational production, cost-effective production, that will also determine the market, given how to get the license. It will be the market situation itself, i.e. the market selection will get rid of the job and it will be a positive selection, so that it is still under control and tobacco cultivation. In the treatment of this issue of tobacco production, neither in Article 9 nor in Article 10 is it mentioned who grants the authorisation for the production, or for the cultivation and production of tobacco. Article 9 below 2) states that there are at least five hectares. The production of tobacco can be done by those who meet these conditions, so they are listed. Paragraph six says it's management, but you can see how it's unspeakable and spoken in some incomprehensible language. It is said: The administration makes a conclusion or a solution. So, a permit is being passed, but it is not said to be a licence, but it is said that the solution rejects the request or issue of the licence. It's not said clearly or specifically. Article 10 mentions the licence: "Decision granting a licence for the performance of tobacco production (hereinafter referred to as: tobacco production permit)... "and say what it contains. This is not regulated properly, as we will later see in the text when it comes to the production of tobacco products. There is a concise indication of who gives the permit to produce tobacco products. Of course, there it is said that, with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, it gives management, although it is a little odd. Furthermore, the license to trade in tobacco is small and large, since it is one of the most profitable jobs – it says here it gives management which is with the Ministry and with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture. It's a little weird how that order was set up. If tobacco production is treated here, or tobacco cultivation, it is logical that it also gives consent to the Ministry of Agriculture. But if it's the production of tobacco products, why isn't the Ministry of Industry, because it's always been part of the industry, and before it was called the Nis, the Vranje tobacco industry, etc. So there's no logic in this. Furthermore, article 45 says it is necessary to pay taxes, but it seems that here is the main game about the tax to be paid for the sale, i.e. the sale, in retail, of four million dinars per sales facility. So, here it's cut not by quantity, not by some relationship and proportions, or perhaps by some absolute percentage, but definitely by four million dinars per sales facility. There's no telling what's meant under the sales facility. Even those windows in the catering facilities may be considered sales facilities, and if not, they'll probably be smuggled through it, so every caterer will have that vitrine, or humidor to sell cigarettes, regardless of what is said there will be a fiscal register, but will not pay or maybe pay, but nowhere is written, four million dinars for the facility. Of course, criminal provisions say that tobacco can not be placed on the market in tobacco boxes because it would be accessible to other minors. It's probably given as one precautionary measure. But when it comes to the definition of what is considered a retail facility, it is not clear whether those kiosks are retail facilities, whether they are just some shops and in which case it would be profitable to make shops for sale, that is, tobacco traffic. Only in Article 15 is it prohibited to traffic a cut tobacco. There's nothing to talk about when it comes to tobacco production. In Article 15, this substance is indicated and it is said: "It is prohibited to put on the market a cut or other way of shredding tobacco. "This is the same in all criminal provisions and is constantly said – it is prohibited to put into traffic cut or otherwise smoked tobacco. What does that mean? A leaf-shaped tobacco such as that could be placed on the market because it does not say anywhere that it must not be placed on the market, and it is as if a great wisdom and wisdom were to cut such tobacco and get cut tobacco. I don't know why it's so defined, but looking at the letter of the law, it doesn't say anything that it's forbidden. When you look at these wholesale taxes, I think they're in disparity and wholesale you have to pay a tax of five million dinars, and for retailing in each form four million dinars, and that's one disproportionate. It's not defined what's considered a retail facility, there can be no more of these objects, and it's considered one facility, I guess, but for everyone, every store for itself is some retail facility. Furthermore, if it is observed that this will all reflect on the consumer, I am sure that all these costs will be reduced to the burden of the end-user, i.e. citizens who use tobacco and that the price of tobacco will become enormously high. It will be a special imposition on those who do not have the strength to break away from that habit, no matter how much we may consider it a harmful habit, that it is socially useless and perhaps even... But it's not as dangerous as alcohol, etc. Many citizens will have a problem because of low personal incomes anyway and will not be able to use tobacco, but will be used by cigarette smuggling. As we know, one of these entry jobs is tobacco smuggling, and it is likely that it will continue to remain in that logic, so that tobacco trafficking, or tobacco products, will be out of control. Therefore, it will continue to be trafficked, and especially more so if this is exactly how everything is applied, because it will in some way reflect the budget of the consumer, each household, or every individual smoker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20902	Thank you very much, Mr. Pantyhose. Before we go with nonsmokers, the minister has a word before, and then the MPs. Just so you know, MP Nadica Momirov signed up and went to the board, so the first word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and then the MP Branka Bosnjak. That's why we stick to that order. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20903	I'm just going to give a few clarifications that came from the dilemma of the MP who spoke earlier. First, Article 9(2) implies that those who wish to obtain a licence and who are considered a tobacco producer must have at least five hectares of farmland owned under tobacco, therefore not under other cultures. It's normally regulated by sublaws of the Ministry of Agriculture that prescribes this thing. Secondly, as regards the dilemma about how conditions are under way, this Article 9 actually defines tobacco producers as legal persons, so a company can be a producer of tobacco, a company, a farmer's cooperative and an entrepreneur, so, STR, and can also be a natural person only if, as the previous position in that article puts it, it has concluded a cooperative contract with the one registered as a tobacco manufacturer, i.e. a tobacco processor. So, you can also have a physical face, but you must have a cooperation agreement with him, with the manufacturer - the legal person must have five acres under it, because it's illusory that someone can seriously deal with the production of quality tobacco who has less processing surfaces. Also, I think it's clear that the procedure has been given by this law. The tobacco administration shall be the institution where the application for registration is submitted, i.e. for the acquisition of the name of the tobacco manufacturer. The tobacco management brings, based on the fulfillment of the conditions given here in the law, conclusion or solution whether the conditions are met or not. This calls for the consent and opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. On the basis of this consent that there are conditions and that someone is considered a tobacco producer, that person legally requests registration in the tobacco producer's register and is then obliged to make that registration within 15 days of the date of receipt. So it's a procedure and it's all fact-finding for tobacco management, and the producer's register is also being run to the tobacco administration. What was also a question in the previous speech, who can meet the conditions for retailing – all those who meet such conditions under the trade law, therefore, all kiosks who meet the appropriate sanitary conditions, with the condition that they pay 4,000 dinars per object. So if we have one company that has multiple kiosks and each kiosk pays 4,000 dinars to meet that condition. As for Article 15, there is no concern that cigarette smuggling, or tobacco, might occur. Article 15 says it prohibits the placing on the market of cut or otherwise smoked tobacco. That means it's illegal to sell tobacco at the market. If someone's growing tobacco and then he's sucking it himself and taking it to the market, he's out of any tobacco manufacturer's register. It's forbidden by this law. So if someone wants to deal with it individually, they can, but they have to register with the tobacco administration first. In the case of a farmer, a farmer, he makes a co-operative contract with someone who has already become a tobacco producer. Then he can sell on the basis of that kind of registration. It is currently prohibited to place on the market cut and otherwise smoked tobacco for all those not registered. If you know, since I'm not a smoker, but I'm following that area from a fellow who smokes, there's this one that's howling, and he's already been processed, so he doesn't belong to this category of cut or otherwise smoked tobacco, because those who put such tobacco on the market have and have to get registration from the tobacco administration, so they're registered. That tobacco is also paid for by the appropriate excise ad valorem, as you know, by law. You can't avoid paying the excise. Finally, another dilemma, I'd like to remove it, around this humidor machine. Also, my fellow smokers explained to me, the humidor machine actually only serves to sell so-called. tompus. So you can't sell through it these regular cigarettes, so there's no fear that you can smuggle regular cigarettes over that machine. There's a tompus in that humidor. Otherwise, cigarettes are sold over machines, and since we banned the law from selling cigarettes over machines, then there's no concern about smuggling. By the way, I've already said that the volume of cigarettes and tobacco in general in Serbia is below 5% of total traffic, while, for example, in the UK 12%. However, the UK has huge excise duties and that's why it has a big gray economy. We are a country that, on the one hand, tends to reduce the grey economy, on the other hand, unfortunately, I have to say something that I don't even know if we all know – Serbia is third in the world by the number of smokers compared to the number of inhabitants. So, the number of smokers compared to the number of Serbians placed third in the world behind Turkey and Greece. This is why we introduced this one dinar of additional payment on the excise stamp, to really prevent it from working, because, as Minister Milosavljevic says with justification, smoking kills.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20904	Thank you. The data refers to the total population. When it comes to gender, men are the fourth category in the world and women are second, and first is Sweden. Here you are, Mr. Markovic, and the People's MP Branka Bosnjak, and the People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this information the minister gave me is not surprising at all, because since 2000, since you were in power, and those who didn't smoke have gone out of trouble. When I analyzed this bill a little bit of the first clue I encountered in the cover itself, the second part says, "The government's representative at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was appointed Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister. "If it is tobacco production, then that segment belongs to agriculture and therefore, the agriculture minister should. If it's the production of cigarettes from already made tobacco, cigarettes, etc., then it's the industry and then it should be the minister of the economy. If it's about selling tobacco, domestic sales, then it should be the minister of trade and tourism. If it's tobacco exports, and that's what it's all about, then it should be Parivodić. However, he was in a hurry to adopt a budget. I hope you will inform Serbia that you have adopted the budget. The second clue I came across was when the front page opened up and I always had to go back to the title so I wouldn't go wrong. Article 2 looks more like Vujaklia than a member of the law, so the minister nicely explains to us what tobacco means – some expressions used in this law have the following meaning: tobacco are made by leaves of cultured nicotine plants, and then goes fermented tobacco - tobacco processed by technological procedure and by seasonal and non-seasonal fermentation or thermal fermentation. To be clear, this first fermentation is when a farmer lowers tobacco leaves to the thread, hangs and drys in the sun, and this second one is when everyone has a smoke dryer where the fire and tobacco is poured. Then why is the minister sharing this first, these first five species and these other two? Who can forbid a peasant from making these other kinds of sushi in the tobacco kitchen? Tobacco products are products that meet the standards laid down by law by quality and these are: cigarettes, cigarillos, cigarettes, smoking tobacco, etc. If he hadn't written here a minister, hardly any of the MPs would know what tobacco products are, especially tobacco, but let's move on. Here the essence of individual ministers in the current government arises. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, lie down, but don't sweeten, understand how we smokers feel. Now you have a deputy and you can go out and light a cigarette. Now here comes the essence of the character of individual ministers. "The scrolls of tobacco that can be smoked in a given state. "What would not be in purchased condition, but would be used to giving them something all the time. The Minister further explains to us what cigarettes are, what smoke tobacco is, what other tobacco products are, etc. We come to the point of Article 8, and this is no longer funny: "The manufacturer of tobacco is a company, a company, or an entrepreneur or a natural person that produces tobacco and which is listed in the register of tobacco manufacturers, i.e. in the register of the list of tobacco manufacturers. "This point 8) of Article 2 is directly related to Article 9 and only when it is read can another abduction and robbery of peasants be established. You know, ladies and gentlemen, and you who don't know how to explain that tobacco is mainly produced in hill-mounted areas where a lot of things don't work out, and there's tobacco that works, so people with that rag production budget. Otherwise, it's a very painful and difficult job. Article 9 states: "The production of tobacco can deal with a company, a company, an agricultural cooperative and an entrepreneur (hereinafter: an economic operator), which meets the following conditions", and in Article 9, point 2, that it has a hectare and that it is in collaboration with the physical face of the tobacco manufacturer. We now produce tobacco, a real tobacco producer, a farmer who plantes tobacco in his field, put it in a position that he can't go directly, it was once called a monopoly, a state monopoly, directly with the company that will buy him that tobacco and all previous shops provide, provide seeds, Herbicides, in preparation of production and provide him with the purchase of tobacco. We now put him in a position that he can only cross the entrepreneurs, he will not go directly to the company, but someone who has not eaten or smelled onion, make a contract with ten of them, and make those five hectares, and that is the only condition and he will be called a tobacco producer, these will be co-operatives and charge fat to farmers from a price that is not otherwise large, especially since we sold tobacco factories and other masters to our tobacco market and others determine the price, and not this state, and the price is neither guaranteed nor large enough. Article 5. The last position says: "The Minister responsible for Finance Affairs is closer to prescribes the content and manner of keeping the register referred to in Article 1(1). "The finance minister again. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs that we have passed, wherever anything is mentioned for money, are necessarily Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, wherever the money is concerned, is always Minister of Finance Mladjan Dinkic. Don't even open the children's bank. It'll be where Mladjan Dinkic comes from. Regarding this member, we are again in a position that the minister as a state body, the minister, is headed by a state body called the ministry. This isn't just about the Treasury. All the laws that have come in the last 20 days and all the laws that have come backwards where it determines who will determine this, the minister writes. The ministry is a state body, the minister is an elder of the body, the minister can be removed, the ministry must exist. The tobacco producers are obliged to use tobacco seeds produced in accordance with the rules on seed. Here we have one story, I mentioned it a year ago in a debate, and now I have to mention again, somewhere in the bathing area two or three years ago, tobacco producers get unquality seeds, sow infected seeds and ruin the country so that the next six years on that country can't sow anything. Those above the tobacco manufacturer are obliged not to allow such damage to these peasants, to bring tobacco and state producers into these situations. It's not genetically infected, but it's infected with some virus. Finally, Article 9 clearly states that a natural person - a tobacco manufacturer can deal with tobacco production if he has a concluded cooperative contract with a tobacco manufacturer, or a tobacco processor, which is the entrepreneur referred to in Article 9(1). We get to it when we get a license to manufacture tobacco and the Ministry of Finance will show up again, they'll register with a fat cab charge. That tax, it seems to me, is a slightly larger number, I can't find it now, in the end line, to whoever the manufacturer was, and from now on, he's going to be cooperative to some manufacturer. Of course, that tax takes five years, a permit is given for five years, and then after five years, a tax is charged again. Let's look at Article 29, point 7 - to make a commitment to produce or purchase domestically processed tobacco annually, at least 50% of its own production annually. I ask, given that both of the tobacco processing and manufacturing factories in Serbia have sold, who will oblige BAT or Philip Morris to produce 50% of the tobacco from domestic production and 50% to import. What BAT or Philip Morris would even buy with us, when they spread across Eastern Europe, will be far cheaper, and the state will not oblige them to install 50% of domestic production into products, so they will import cigarettes and no one can control them. Did you make the sale of the factory conditional on the contract you sold those factories, did you condition them? If you are not, then you have deceived them, and they are not such that they are easily deceived and will surely return. Then we have a member of point 34) who says – if the license holder whose share exceeds 10% of the capital... In the last part of this paragraph, it is said that his license will be withdrawn if he is legally convicted of a commercial offence, or criminal offence, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take out both Bat and Philip Morris immediately. In the U.S., it was recently ruled in favor of someone who was smoking tobacco, no matter what it says, "smoking is harmful to his health," he got lung cancer, sued the tobacco factory, and tobacco factories convicted of paying huge damage to his family. Therefore, they are convicted. That's not what was taken care of. Further, the removal from the register says, within 15 days of the date of delivery of the decision on the withdrawal of the licence. At the end – traders in large tobacco products. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cane Frog will still be the tobacco king in Serbia, whether you want it or not. I wouldn't be surprised if he took part in writing and preparation in such and similar projects. I think it's high time you passed at least one law by which you do not want Serbian citizens in every way possible and wherever you are given the opportunity to end it. Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20906	The word has the finance minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20907	Here, let me answer some of these remarks. First, as you know, in the Law on Tobacco adopted in 2003, the finance minister was legally established as chairman of the Management Board of the Tobacco Agency. Why? Because in all countries in the world, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for collecting taxes, and taxes include excise duties, and tobacco taxes are being collected, only in the first 10 months have we had 14.5 billion dinars. So it's normal for finance ministers to play a part in collecting taxes. It cannot be done by a minister of religion or a minister of the economy, whatever they play an important role in the system, in no country in the world, nor in Serbia. So, by this law, we're terminating the tobacco agency. Thus, and the finance minister, whoever it is, at this point I am the finance minister and no longer, since the adoption of this law, the chairman of the board of directors of the tobacco agency. In some ways, the finance minister is dissipating himself here, because the tobacco administration, whose director, in accordance with the new state administration law, is being elected at the competition. It is clear that all the jobs that are related to the registration of those who are taxpayers are carried out by the tobacco administration, and that they are prescribed by them, since the tobacco administration is part of the Ministry of Finance, cannot make a minister of ecology or some other, but a finance minister. Simply, the tobacco administration is part of the Ministry of Finance, which is the case in all countries around the world. So, that's about the Ministry of Finance's authority. They are natural, because excise is one of the basic revenues in the budget. Also, you will see, if you carefully read the law, that there are powers of all other ministers. Anything related to tobacco farming, the responsibility for the sublaw has a agriculture minister; all that is related to trade, the responsibility for the sublaw has a trade minister. Therefore, a division of the work has been carried out in accordance with the competences. What you've noticed is that in registration, the Ministry of Finance has to have insight into who these people are, as we have insight into everyone else. It's an explanation of your objections regarding the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction in this case. As far as Article 34 is concerned, it is clear if someone is convicted of a criminal offence of illicit trade in tobacco products to withdraw his work permit. I don't even believe that you're saying that someone who's justly convicted of being released, so I haven't, I have to admit, understood the essence of that remark. It is said here that if someone is a key co-owner in the company and has at least 10%, if convicted of a commercial offence, or a criminal offence of illicit production, loses his license to work. We want to make it possible for this work to be done only by people who respect the law. Finally, you asked a question that was not related to this topic, related to the 2006 budget. We adopted the draft budget on the Finance Committee today, but the government, which will discuss the draft, is scheduled for Friday. Of course, the Finance Committee first determines the draft, which has been done today, on Friday, the government and then the Government directs the Assembly and then MPs finally declare themselves. If you'll excuse me, since you've been in a very good mood, I've had one thing to cheer me up today. I would like to take the opportunity, it may be unusual for the finance minister, to congratulate the players of the "Vlasin" victory in the Cup of Yugoslavia, because they have already thrown out two first leaguers, first of all the Podgorica's "Future", and today the "Rad" from Belgrade. So, the swallows went into the quarterfinals of the cup and I congratulate them with all my heart, since my father's from there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20908	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20909	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is ahead of us with the tobacco law, which in a comprehensive way regulates the area of cultivation, processing, production, import, export and sale of tobacco and tobacco products. The law provides for the termination of the work of the tobacco and tobacco education agency at the Ministry of Finance. As an extremely lucrative area, production, import and sale of tobacco must be maximumly decorated and controlled, all in order to curb the grey economy and regular income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've all witnessed long-standing family domination in import and tobacco trafficking. It is therefore particularly important by law to consistently control all stages of production and business with tobacco. This law introduces us into a world of regulated European countries and guarantees the state's willingness to completely eradicate illegal flows, from production to retail. The effectiveness of this law is achieved through the introduction of licences and registers for the following participants: tobacco growers, tobacco processors, tobacco producers, wholesalers and small and small importers and tobacco exporters. In order for all these participants in the tobacco business to be authorised and registered in the relevant register, the law prescribes clear conditions that must be met, but also regular extension of those licences. In the event of a lack of respect for some of the parameters, the law provides for the withdrawal of work permits, but also fines from 10,000 to millions of dinars. But today I want to talk a little bit more about the second part of the law that, in accordance with the world standards of combating the consumption of tobacco products, prescribes restrictive sales and advertising measures. The poor health of the Republic of Serbia is difficult to allocate funds for the prevention of smoking-induced diseases. That is why a special fund is being created at the Ministry of Health, which is filled with all the manufacturers and importers of cigarettes by paying one dinar for each pack that is placed on the territory of Serbia. When we know that the state annually issues 1.1 billion control excise stamps, significant funds are expected in this fund. The consumption of tobacco will not be stopped with this. In accordance with modern legislation, and this law prescribes additional measures in this direction. It is our obligation to clearly alert young and undereducated to the harmfulness of this vice. The law clearly obliges manufacturers and sellers of tobacco products by saying in Article 51 – a retailer who has been granted a license to trade tobacco products, it is required to highlight in a visible place a special label "the prohibited sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors". In order to understand the importance of getting to know the youth correctly about the harmfulness of tobacco consumption, I will present some statistics that you can otherwise find on the health ministry website. Serbia-Montenegro is at the infamous top of the number of smokers, with 48% of the male population and a record European percentage of 33.6 women smokers. A huge representation of smokers among young people: 54.7% of young people aged 13 to 15 tried cigarettes, 31.3% ten years ago, 16.3% young to 15 years were already smokers, 69.8% of young people bought cigarettes in shops, and 92.4% of those who bought cigarettes in shops were never refused to be served. Furthermore, 52.1% of smokers saw billboards, anti-smoking messages, but that's why 70.7% of those who remember billboards, commercials that promote tobacco products. Furthermore, 59.4 per cent of the population saw signs in the anti-smoking newspaper, but that's why 80.4 per cent of those who remember tobacco ads in written media. Due to such devastating figures, the tobacco law provides for a complete notification to citizens of the harmfulness of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, as well as some restrictions on the sale of these products. It is prohibited to sell tobacco products to minors, to sell through self-service, to sell via automatic, to sell candy in the form of tobacco products. Each pack of cigarettes and group pack must indicate the exact data on the quantity of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide per cigarette. The law also prescribes a progressive reduction of the permitted quantities of these harmful substances, more specifically, is prescribed for 2006 and that is 16 milligrams of tar, 1.5 milligrams of nicotine and 15 milligrams of carbon monoxide, in order to gradually reduce the quantities to the prescribed maximum for 2011: 10 milligrams of tar, 1 milligrams of nicotine and 10 milligrams of carbon monoxide each year. The measurements will be carried out in accordance with ISO standards, and all data must be clearly printed on one of the side pages of each pack of cigarettes. So if we know that 95% of lung cancer patients are smokers, special warning measures are also needed. Each individual and group pack of tobacco products must have printed general and individual warning messages. This obligation shall enter into force on 1 January 2007. The general warning is: Smoking kills, tobacco smoke hurts people and your environment. The inscription must be printed on the front of the pack, so it covers 30 percent of its surface. Special warnings are printed on the back of each pack so that they cover 40 percent of its surface and those optionally read -- smoking causes lung cancer, lips, tongues, vocal cords. Smoking, or smokers, risk suffering from oesophageal, stomach, uterus cancer. Smokers are more likely to suffer from respiratory disease. The children of smokers suffer more often from asthma. Smoking causes a heart attack and stroke, smoking causes blood vessels disease, pregnant women who risk losing a baby or damage to her health, smoking irreparably affects women's health, smoking causes addiction - look for help to quit. All these warnings must be printed on the white background in black capital letters, Cyrillicly written and framed in black. The legislator has provided for all warning measures and it is now up to us to decide on the protection of our health and the health of our friends and family. At the very end, on behalf of the G17 Plus Party, I call on all MPs to support this law, given that it systematically regulates the area of tobacco production and transport and provides greater discipline on the tobacco market, but also prevents the emergence of a gray economy. As a party that particularly advocates the protection of youth health, G17 plus supports those members of the law that make cigarettes inaccessible to minors. We also welcome all warning models of tobacco harmfulness to be printed on cigarette packs. Because of all of this, the G17 plus party favors this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20910	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, as the Serbian Radical Party, advocate that our agricultural products, and they include tobacco, be on the market for our own, and from that point of view we believe that this area of tobacco production must be arranged. Now, the question is how is it arranged? We know that this law has recently been in the congregation procedure, as well as some other laws relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, and today's agriculture law will not propose or have anything to say about it, but the Ministry of Finance. It is immediately in the beginning of a suspicious law and as such subject to criticism from ours and probably on the other side. How come you from the Ministry of Finance are just now dealing with the production, traffic and doping of tobacco and fermented tobacco? All of these arrangements, including this arrangement from this area, are constantly changing for a number of reasons. Probably in the chain of production and traffic tobacco there are constantly some new comments that translate this area into new laws. We've always said that your agencies aren't very appropriate and we've used a lot of words to distract you from those agencies. However, I think it took Minister Dinkic less time to translate this law from the tobacco agency than it needed in the law to issue or withdraw a license to grow and traffic tobacco, which can be regulated by this law in five days. These agencies make up only ballast and burden to the budget, because they hire and hire a large number of your people. You know who I mean when I say - your people. And now you've introduced the paper and in this law you're now giving up the agency and introducing a tobacco management that will be with the Ministry of Finance. I think you could probably do some other administrations now, for example, the administration of precious metals or some more high-quality administrations, and then you could do one whole. Well, isn't it more degutant for you G17 plus to grab everything where there's money and profit? Your law, your proposal, is likely for citizens in the recent elections to be able to tell you then - no. Which roads will you go now to comply with the European Union? What are your paths, do you tobacco, with classic tobacco or fermented tobacco roads? I think our tobacco producers know they're producing first-class tobacco, picking it up, drying it, lagging it out and selling it. Now, that's where that tobacco management of yours comes in, with that finance department. There is now an antagonism between manufacturers and buyers, i.e. traffickers of the goods called tobacco. Well, that gray economy is present today in this area, don't you think these white world producers of tobacco products are not a gray economy? They did. Their products called cigarettes are now on our market through the gray economy. Generally, all roads lead to our consumers of these cigarettes, which have already become a danger, since in every place and on every occasion they can uninterrupted and unhindered to burn their enjoying tobacco, or cigarettes. (Vladimir Homan, from the scene: you skipped the line. I didn't skip, I can skip something else, but order doesn't. The state of our nation's health is low due to the strong consumption of cigarettes. We all know kids smoke today, too. But cigarettes are also used by people who enjoy time and do not think about whether it harms them first, then the whole environment. Article 8 regulates which tobacco types will be produced. Whether or not we are in the process of unification of varieties, and we know that diversity makes harmony in nature, even in the production of tobacco. Article 9 - means only registered owners will produce tobacco. That five-hectare limit is discrimination against those of our small but colorful surfaces that gave us the best fermented tobacco. So, it's not just gonna take one license, it's gonna take a bunch of these licenses to get somebody to start producing and growing tobacco. You know that exposure and type of land, altitude, geological background and all that's related to this microlocality is something that won't be able to condition this article of yours. Don't you gentlemen know that our average owners in Serbia are less than five hectares of land? Article 10 - Permission shall be granted for a period of five years. Is that the same regulated by our economic strategy in agriculture? It's not. The erasure period from the register is so pedantic and expressive that in five days you solve it. Well, in five days, you haven't been able to solve more vital problems in the area of agriculture. For example, when the oil ran out, you were unable to provide that oil, except in the means of public information, you daily informed that there was oil in the pumps, and in fact there was no oil. It's been five or more days, and the harvest has been completed without certain amounts of oil for our farmers. And here you suggest we withdraw the production license, or delete it from the register, and that deadline is five days. That's just funny. How are you going to organize that administration? The helicopters will probably be used to do it all the way you want them to. Article 17(4) states that a tobacco processor should have his own laboratory or a contract with an accredited domestic or foreign laboratory. This attitude can then have a devastating impact on processors who do not listen and respect the system of monopolised processors. Importers of tobacco and equipment are regulated by this law, but only to the tobacco administration. There's a maltary or a hearse for them. Why are you, out of finance, protecting yourself with this law? You won't be in power forever, and you're not the only ones picking up the fruits of that tobacco smoke. I wanted to say another sentence about this dollar in the amount of one billion that's going to build up, which is going to go to health care. We will still be able to comment on whether or not you from the Ministry of Finance will be interested in investing at the time; that is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, I don't know if you're going to be able to do this aesthetically, or design this 30, or 40% on the front and back. How are you going to ban these machines? It's the same discussion. It's a questionable comment about 50% of the variety and other tobacco, and we don't think you'll make it anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20912	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Let MP Dragoslav Milkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20913	I'm sorry the minister came out. He's probably bored of sitting down, or getting sick of the Serbian Radical Party and exposure to radicals. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of a series of laws put on the agenda, and the reason it's looking for the European Community is the tobacco law. This law applies more to those dealing with tobacco products, and at least to those producing that tobacco. that agricultural culture. What first falls into the eyes is Article 3, which says the tobacco administration is being educated, as the administration's body within the finance ministry. This implies that the work of the tobacco agency, which was established by the tobacco law, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 17/03". Gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has fought against these agencies since the formation of this government; it seems the Ministry of Finance has taken one step forward, has listened to the radicals, abolished the Agency, but educates the administration, and that's the tobacco administration. So we just changed the name, it's not the agency, it's the tobacco management. These agencies were mostly used and used to hire people from ministries that are particularly held by G17 plus. You have specified by the proposal for this law in Article 5: "The registers that are governed under this law are," so it is said under number 1) "the register of tobacco producers". Gentlemen, in the case of registered agricultural land, you should know, in order to get a premium for tobacco production, you must report on the surface and how many hectares there are so far tobacco. Next, Article 9 of this Act states that the agricultural producer should be registered in the register of operators for the performance of tobacco production. However, if you want to help tobacco producers, Article 9 should delete Article 1 and should not require the agricultural producer to meet the conditions laid down in this Article 1. Then you say what are the types of tobacco produced in Serbia, which are "virginia", "berley", "oriental" and "poloriental". What happens if someone from the European Union orders the import of a new type of tobacco not listed in this law? You further say in the text that the manufacturer is deleted from the register of tobacco manufacturers within five days of the date of expiry of the licence, because for some objective reasons he cannot renew the registration in the register with such a small period of five days. In assessing the quality of tobacco, the tobacco manufacturer, or a natural person, if not satisfied with the assessment of the quality of tobacco carried out by the tobacco processor with which he concluded the buy-in contract, may submit a request for a new assessment of the quality of tobacco to an accredited domestic or, I stress, to a foreign laboratory within 24 hours of the day. In Article 24, which I have stated, there is a lack of logic that the quality of tobacco determines the quality of the tobacco that the contract is made with; it should be done immediately by a domestic accredited laboratory. I repeat, here it is suggested that tobacco be examined in an accredited home or in a foreign laboratory; it is a major deficiency, it should only be in an accredited home laboratory. We come to the rights and duties of a Republic agricultural inspector in this law, who is given the rights and duties to verify the use of tobacco seeds for production. If it does not comply with the seed regulation, it may prohibit production or destroy the breakdown. Gentlemen, isn't it logical that seed houses or legal persons that produce decay and seeds will be punished, not only in the pocket of tobacco producers. I believe that this law is not legally sufficiently professionally done, because there are still legal holes in it that will make certain tycoons from this authority enormously rich, as so far. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a number of amendments to the tobacco law. When the debate in the details of the SRS will seek to improve these quality amendments by improving this tobacco law, about a vice that only brings people health problems and nothing more. But it is very interesting that the legislator in article 74 tries to reduce every year, starting in 2006 to 2011, means five years; for example, in 2006, cigarettes in the territory of the Republic cannot contain more than 16 milligrams of tar per cigarette, in order to bring it down to 10 milligrams of tar per cigarette in 2011. Does it take us five years? You should have immediately passed this regulation by means of this law, and you should have said that in 2006, protection or mild protection of those who consume tobacco, by reducing the amount of tar per cigarette, nicotine and carbon monoxide per cigarette is being carried out. It's very important in this law, so the proposer had to do it literally within a year. It's probably this law you've proposed prescribed. That's what Europe is looking for, but it doesn't mean that we can't go into something and out of Europe, think about both people's health and those who consume this vice. The Serbian Radical Party on this law, if it is not accepted with amendments, which are very high-quality and which will be the day we explain in particular, will be able to speak only and see if we support it, and most likely not because you will not support our amendments either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20914	Thank you. The People's MP Dragoslav Milkovic has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Dinkic left the hall and left, fled. I come from an underdeveloped municipality in southern Serbia, where 60% of the population makes up the old population. Why am I giving you this information? I'll explain later. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but notice that the finance minister is slowly but he's certainly starting to control everything he wants. Thus, by establishing a tobacco management at the finance ministry, the minister puts his hand on the control of the production, processing and sale of tobacco. Of course, production and processing, and in particular the transport of tobacco and tobacco products should be introduced into normal i.e. Legal currents, because we all know what all possible machinations are like, that there are them and that it's hard to control them. But I doubt it, and I don't think it will succeed, Minister Dinkic with a bill like this, which the SRS disagrees with and believes is bad, with many shortcomings. In my presentation, I will be based on a few members of this bill. First of all, you did not specify in any article what you consider to be under the tobacco producer, which quantities should be produced to be considered by the tobacco producer. Article 9 paragraph 8 states that a natural person i.e. The manufacturer of tobacco may deal with tobacco production if he has concluded a co-operation contract with the tobacco manufacturer, i.e. with the tobacco processor. This means that anyone who is involved in tobacco production cannot directly sell tobacco to a cigarette manufacturer, or to a manufacturer who deals with it. So it must be sold with a commission to whoever has a contract, or a certified contract. Article 9(2) states that the tobacco producer must have at least five hectares of arable land. I guess it's got to be under the tobacco. For example, a man who has three or four acres has been literally rejected. I think there's a broken constitution, Article 35, because it can't be conditioned for a man to have at least five acres of arable land, when we know that tobacco is the most produced in southern Serbia where parcels are small and people don't have so much arable surface. So these people are going to be isolated and they couldn't handle tobacco production. Does under the tobacco manufacturer mean a grandfather in a remote mountain village, what a lot is in the municipality from which I come, which is the Municipality of Trgovište, the Pcinj County, which produces tobacco for its own purposes. That's not exactly accurate in this law. Do you consider him a producer, even though he is unable to provide himself with finished tobacco products because of his financial situation and impatience? By the law that you're proposing and he's the manufacturer, what about him? And he is subject, by your law, to produce certain provisions. Did you happen to have him in mind just for punishment? In Articles 79 and 80, you taxed the rights, duties and powers of the agricultural inspector, and in Article 86(4), you cited criminal provisions unless the natural person complied with the provisions of this law. What about this grandfather of ours, are we as a state to take away that one cow if there is one, to pay the penalty for you to fill the budget and maintain some kind of social peace just to keep yourself in power? This law is full of inadequacy, but I have particularly devoted myself to these members, because I want to draw the attention of the Minister and the Government to our citizens, exhausted and poor, in villages, who do not have enough money for basic existence, and you on the other hand want to punish them just because they somehow manage to meet their needs or habits. In the light of this law, it is only true that the Republic of Serbia has a long tradition, as well as that the climate benefits the cultivation of quality tobacco varieties. It's the only thing that's true and true. That's why I'm saying it. I'm saying because Americans, knowingly, bought the tobacco industry Vranje and the Nis tobacco industry. Why didn't they buy a crowy Jumko, a textile factory with 13,000 employees who are failing, but was sold this rentable, where profits are derived? He's not here, I'd like to ask him a question and I'd like him to answer. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the law because instead of the agency, management is formed. It is a miracle that Mr Dinkic did not propose to form a tobacco ministry. I would like to be answered by how many officials this administration will have, given that Serbia is a poor country, that the number of officials is doubled, and there will probably be employees of party activists, godfathers, swastikas, etc., but I think the time will come that the SRS will soon win and amend these laws from the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20916	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20917	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we're talking about the smoking law, and I'm the victim of that vice called tobacco consumption, not to say smoking, because I can be misunderstood. I can tell you that I'd rather not talk about this law today and not talk about tobacco at all. But no one has bothered to ban planting, selling and using tobacco, for all of them have an interest, or a great gain. If we're talking about some endemics, I can say freely that smoking is the biggest endemic in the world, so there comes AIDS or AIDS, whatever you want, and then what scares us is not yet clear to me, this bird flu and what else will be God's question. The law and legal norms were spoken of by people who spoke before me from the Serbian Radical Party, so I won't bother you much. I can only look back at some of the members. I'll start with Article 3, where the tobacco management is set up instead of the agency. Wrong again. That administration belongs to the Ministry of Finance. I don't see anything's changed. I think it's just a changed name, and the essence remains the same. I see that it's been changed that instead of the Ministry of Agriculture, it belongs to the Ministry of Finance, which I really don't see the reasons, because it has nothing to do with paper and bills, but with land and planting, which is agriculture. While I'm here talking about agriculture, Article 9 says - tobacco production can deal with companies, businesses, agricultural cooperatives and entrepreneurs. This entrepreneur is suspicious to me. It could be any one of these mobsters showing up as an entrepreneur. We're the amendment here said nice-- farmer. As soon as you've marked that anyone can have five acres of farmland, although it's not finished there; well said fellow Gačević, he can have five acres of land and sign up to grow tobacco and plant maybe one field of tobacco, and one that has four, four and a half acres of tobacco, he can't participate as a manufacturer. So, it would be fair for him to be a farmer here instead of an entrepreneur to reduce the possibility of malfeasance. I mentioned, I think, Article 15, and that's what my colleague was talking about and let me tell you something. It could be funny, and there were a lot of funny things here, so let's do this. He says, "It is forbidden to put on the market cut or otherwise smoked tobacco (unworked tobacco). "So, the manufacturer, i.e. peasant, private and individual producer, however you like, must not go to the market, must not take out any of the cut tobacco in public, but can automatically point at the shoulder of the tobacco leaf and go and sell on the street and no one can do anything to it, because this law does not prohibit the use of the leaves. So it could have been said - the ban on selling tobacco in any condition. And you chop it up. We'll chop you up, and you'll be even smaller. As an educational worker, and as a man, I had to refer to these criminal provisions and to what prevents tobacco from being used. Don't think I'm praising your law, there's a lot of shortcomings, that's what we'll talk about when we talk about amendments. I have to say, it's good for tobacco to be unreachable to minors, children, or under 18. But here you've made some language mistakes that I wouldn't exactly point to, but one I will. That's Article 51, it says - a special label. Please, something that says is not a mark. It's a sign. The mark is that sign, for example, forbidden parking, forbidden detention, so cigarettes, so over that forbidden smoking, and you could simply call it a special inscription or special warnings. I think it would be a little clearer, when they say here – a retailer who has been granted a license to trade small tobacco products is obliged to point out a special label, or a special inscription, "prohibited sales of cigarettes and other tobacco... ". I think we should put it in here, even though it's been used here so-called. For the sake of economics, it is forbidden to sell cigarettes, so that he who falls before him may see that it is forbidden, then what is forbidden. We're on our way to Article 71. There's a ban. This, I say, is in the law finally and well. I speak now as a man who knows what tobacco is, what's tobacco damage and what negative effects people have from it. "It's forbidden to sell tobacco products to minors," it's okay, "to sell tobacco products in retail stores through self-service of customers," and not to list everything. I don't understand this, but come on, we have a poor people, so why don't we pack... He says, "It is forbidden to produce, import and sell cigarettes in a pack containing less than 20 pieces of cigarettes. "I don't know who it occurred to, whether it's a European standard or not, so why not, so there have been 10 cigarettes so far. A man doesn't have any money, and he's looking for five sometimes. It used to be sold in rinfuze, so a man takes two cigarettes, because he smokes so much and there's so much money, so come on, it's okay. Article 74, I don't know where you got this, so couldn't you suddenly say how many milligrams of tar per cigarette must be legal and be valid from the day of law. You're probably thinking about what's in stock to sell. You could've said, what's in the stock should be sold, and now you have the records, there's the inspection, the supervisory authority, you have and you've involved the people you need to hire, they could've controlled the sale of tobacco that's already in stock. So let's make this the smallest amount, 10 milligrams, so you predicted it by 2011. You've predicted until then, and who knows how many people out of the large amount of toxic ingredients in cigarettes, and then as in 2011, you're probably hoping to get in, we're not against entry, into the EU in 2011. You had to put x-rays here unlimited, sometimes or never. We are not at the level to respect what the European Community and Western countries have. It is well known there, and I, as a smoker, would be overjoyed if this law, which would probably be in some other law, banned smoking in all public places. She's got that restraining order, but no one respects her. You know well that in the west, to tell you a little bit about it, a neighbor reports a neighbor who lives across the street smoking in a public place and polluting his air. Of course, there comes an organ that is responsible for it and punishes a man who smokes on the other side of the street, and we strangle children, smokes in public places, smokes at school, hospitals, smokes in the congregation, smokes and smokes. I've been on some blood work this morning, and they've been pulling my blood out, and they're telling me very seriously -- don't smoke, you have to stop. I tell them I might think about it, but as soon as I get out, you'll all blow up here. So they're lying to themselves, I'm lying to myself, and now I'm going to go out and burn. When I'm banned, when the law doesn't allow it, then I'll really be overjoyed, and when we all respect it, then we can go to Europe, gentlemen, and this way we're not even close. We're in Europe, we've been, but what you're trying to do -- never. I don't know how this last sentence -- this law comes into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This is purely a commercial effect. What difference does it make if he's adopted today, and tomorrow he'll step in and we'll be done, we can get the money right away. There's nothing else here. Why all the laws for eight days, and this first day and immediate adoption? Because of every pack of cigarettes, you have one dinar, and it comes to the Ministry of Finance, and now it comes to the adoption of the budget. Yeah, Branka, health, I don't know if you smoke. It's not about health, it's about to be smoked again, except it'll be paid more to your boss. That's the problem. I don't hear very well. We'll talk about it later. Gentlemen, I think we still have a lot of amendments to think about and I think what I've said is correct and realistic. I haven't criticized you much, I've praised these bans more. That's good and that's where you should commend me, but what's going on, what we've highlighted in the amendments, that's what you have to respect, so we're going to think about whether we're going to vote. They say we won't, then we won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20918	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20919	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with this tobacco management mentioned in Article 3. The bill, which is effectively abolished by the current tobacco agency, which was constructed two years ago by the previous tobacco law. We have then criticised the Agency and since the arrival of DOS to power, countless various agencies have been established, but this is then explained by the need to establish so-called. regulatory bodies that are independent of politics, where politicians will not be able to influence and employ their own people, but to be bodies that will be completely independent of politics and do that professional part of the job. Today, the agency is abolished by this law and is returning everything under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, or under the control of the finance minister. So we have one reverse process, that's what's weird about all the processes that happened from 2001 to today. Article 4 contains the competences of this administration and point 4) says that this administration, in addition, keeps registers and records. Registers shall be kept for tobacco producers, tobacco processors, tobacco products manufacturers, large tobacco dealers, tobacco importers, tobacco exporters, and there shall be a register of brands of tobacco products. These are the types of registers to be prescribed by this law and which this administration will run. Registration lists under Article 6 shall be conducted on natural persons of tobacco producers and on retailers of small tobacco products. Just to be clear, I think it's pretty vague around here who the tobacco producers are. Article 9 speaks more specifically about this and says that tobacco production can deal with a company, a company, a farmer's cooperative and an entrepreneur who meets certain conditions. The conditions are listed here, there are six of them, and among other things it says in point 2) that this tobacco producing entity should have at least five hectares of farmland owned, leased, or in cooperation with a natural face - tobacco manufacturer. The minister explained that it must be five hectares of planted tobacco, not any area owned. However, here it is disputed that this condition is being passed, and when required to meet these conditions by the administration, it is in the next position to obtain the licence on the basis of the requirements, and with the request the evidence is approached, and under point 2) - evidence that it has at least five hectares of arable surface. What do I mean? If one of these economic operators who wants to make tobacco makes a contract with the producers of natural persons, does this law have to own five acres of land, does it have to have its own tobacco so far? I don't think it has to, that it's enough to conclude a cooperation contract with a physical face of a tobacco manufacturer on at least five acres of surface and that's a sufficient condition. However, this is not so done here and remains a necessary condition for him to own five acres. Now imagine someone who registers a tobacco company, has no ar of land, but has co-operatives to produce that tobacco for it; why now ask him to buy five acres of land or, in point 3), to have technical opportunities to process and prepare land for sowing, harvesting, etc. So there must be machinery and all other conditions for tobacco production, and the law allows at point 2) to achieve these conditions through co-operation. I think this is a little vague here and we should make it clear, so there's no problem in law enforcement. It is clear in one of these views of this member that even a natural person may be a tobacco producer, may be engaged in tobacco production, but must have a contract with producers, or some of the entities in the previous production attitude, which is registered for tobacco production and that is what is not disputed. However, it is controversial when it comes to records. Article 7 imposes an obligation to keep records and manufacturers of tobacco natural persons and imposes on them the obligation to keep specific records of the status of the so far held. In Article 7, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Imagine a peasant who has 30 acres of tobacco and he will be correspondence with the administration every seven days to provide her with a variety of information that administrations impose as necessary for her work. It's a little unserious, or it's a little too much to ask from an ordinary small producer, a peasant who has a small area so far, to keep a record or, as it stands in paragraph 1, to keep that record for five years. Imagine a peasant who has five years to keep track of his 15, 20, 30 acres of tobacco. Furthermore, Article 14 refers to the removal from the tobacco producer's register. So we have a producer register, conditions exist, and based on these conditions, the administration will register tobacco producers. It now states under which conditions it is deleted from the register, so in point 1) it is deleted within five days of the date of expiry of the licence. So, when the license expires, within five days, the manufacturer is deleted from the register. If the license expires in June, in five days you delete the manufacturer from the register, and he has contracts with 50 cooperatives, who will take over the production? On the side of his contractual obligation to processors, but who will take over those primary producers, the individuals he has contracted with? It's not regulated here. You're taking away his license. So no one thinks about the raw materials producers, that raw tobacco anymore. Next, Article 26. (i.e. Chapter 5 - Production and Transport of Tobacco Products) in point 2 of point 2 of the statement that a licence for the production of tobacco products is issued under a public tender. That makes sense. However, it does not say anywhere when this tender is being held, whether it is being conducted by the formation of this administration once and for all, or whether it is being conducted every year. So, at what time intervals will a tender be held for tobacco processing producers, or tobacco products? What if in two years in Serbia someone wants to invest in the plant for tobacco products? How will he even be able to start production? Not if he wasn't involved in the tender. The tender was in 2005, and it appears in 2007. On what basis will he be able to get permission to produce these tobacco products? As for the tender process, there may be some logic. However, what is not logical: "The public tender procedure is being conducted by the tender commission, which is being educated by the minister in charge of finance affairs". Why was this pulled from the administration, why was it given to the minister to form a commission? Why doesn't the administration form a commission, if the administration is conducting all the other procedures and all the tender procedures, why should the minister form a commission? That's pretty suspicious to me, because there's a space for abuses, for the minister to commit certain abuses through his people on the commission. Furthermore, Article 29 – the right to participate in a public tender for the production and transport of tobacco products, point 7), in addition to the other conditions to be met by those participating in the tender for production, should be obliged to produce or purchase domestically processed tobacco in the amount of at least 50% of their own annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic, with that that quantity cannot be less than two thousand tonnes per year. This seems good to me, it's good to make sure the producers have to buy out domestic tobacco, because these years we have a flood of imported, foreign tobacco, raw tobacco, which, as far as I'm concerned, is better quality and cheaper than domestic tobacco. However, we must also force domestic production and thus protect domestic production, i.e. oblige tobacco processors to buy a certain amount of domestic raw tobacco. In the end, I'm going to end up with a similar procedure for imports. Importers of tobacco must be allowed to meet certain conditions. However, the conditions state only, under one, that an entity wishing to deal with imports is registered in the register of operators for the performance of external trade and that it has concluded a contract on the purchase of tobacco, etc. with a foreign partner. This doesn't make sense to me, and I'm afraid we're going to have a flood of imported tobacco reprocessing, so we're going to choke domestic production, both the production of tobacco products, and the production of raw tobacco, i.e. primary production. I think that, in addition to these conditions, it was also a condition that the tobacco importer exported a certain amount of tobacco or tobacco products from Serbia, to achieve some reciprocity and to protect domestic production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20920	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20921	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the motionary's representative is not in the hall, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and I wanted to ask him a few questions in this discussion in principle, but I hope that at least he will respect the National Assembly and be present when there are discussions on details, to give us some answers about this, what this law is and what it really wants with this law. The fact is that this law may be good in a Western European country, but in Serbia it is difficult. We have witnessed the fact that over the past years, tobacco and tobacco processing has mostly been in the gray zone, that it's a critical commodity in the matter of excises and taxes, where a lot is taxed, where excises are paid a lot, and that every gray trade, in fact, is a way of obtaining enormously large profits. The fact is that whatever legal regulations regulate this area are stricter, gray eminences, which still rule Serbia, are trying to legalise their business. They also try to legalise their business through lawmakers, but also to provide further monopoly on the market. You can see here the lack of a law like this. He goes hand in hand to all those who have come up with enormous amounts of money in recent years, who will now legalise business and in a closed circle to deal with tobacco and tobacco processing. Here you can also see the Ministry of Finance's desire, translated into this law, to expand the number of taxpayers, back to someone else's harm. This is already seen in Article 9 where tobacco production can be done by companies, businesses, agricultural cooperatives and entrepreneurs. When we say "entrepreneur," someone will say it's a physical face. I agree. A single individual agricultural producer, what about him? What about the simplest peasant, can he do tobacco production? Someone's gonna say they're right, that they can. It can if it registers as an entrepreneur, to be a VAT obligor, to pay taxes not on a cadastrian income that is smaller, but to pay taxes on profits and income on citizens. Then he can do tobacco production. He has a second option, if he wants to, to associate himself with, or to be a cooperative with, a company, a company, a farmer's cooperative or an entrepreneur, but in that case, his profits will be less, far less, because part of the profits obtained by the production of tobacco to end up with one of these persons. So much for every opportunity the Ministry of Finance and Mladjan Dinkic use to harm someone to increase the number of taxpayers, whether it makes sense or not. Furthermore, when the law is looked at, this is where the monopoly section, Articles 26, 27, 28, and 29. If more carefully read, one particular group of people or persons may have a monopoly in the manufacture and processing of tobacco products, and it is said in Article 26: "The production of tobacco products can be carried out by a company, a company and an entrepreneur who has been authorised to perform the work of the production of tobacco products and which is registered in the register of tobacco producers, in accordance with this law. "So the first attitude is not controversial. The next attitude shows the desire of a closed circle of people to do so. Therefore, ‘A licence for the production of tobacco products shall be issued in accordance with a public tender’. So the license number will be limited. This is already seen in Article 27: "The public tender procedure is being initiated by the decision on the tendering of a public tender by the government with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The decision referred to in Article 1(1) shall be taken in accordance with the proposed macroeconomic policy, fiscal interest and market opportunities. "So there will be no competition among tobacco producers, anyone who has been granted a license will be protected from competition. So he'll be able to behave on the market absolutely as he pleases. That the possibility of abuse is great is already seen in the next Article 28, which says, "A public call for participation in a public tender is published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and at least in one daily list. "That's not controversial. "The publication of a public call from the 1st member's position is being addressed by the administration. The invitation to tender shall contain the conditions under which participation in the public tender is obtained, as well as other information of importance for participation in the public tender. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the deadline for participation should be regulated by law. Will it be time for the file to be filed one day from the day of the public call, two, three, five, maybe one hour? See what everything needs to be collected from the documentation when it comes to participation in a public tender. Therefore, if it fulfils the following conditions: it is registered in the register of economic operators for the performance of the production of tobacco products. So he needs a copy of the register. Furthermore, it has its own equipment in the country that allows it to produce at all stages of tobacco preparation to produce cigarettes and other tobacco products and their hygiene packaging. He's going to have to prove it, and as that, some paperwork will have to collect, he's going to have to ask for some consent, some solutions, some confirmations. Furthermore, it has the capacity to produce cigarettes and other tobacco products from its range of at least 2.5 billion pieces in one year. Let's see that too, because technology needs to prove that he's capable of participating in that public tender. Furthermore, it has its own appropriate laboratory for the analysis and determination of the quality of tobacco products, i.e. the conclusion of the contract. So it'll take time, if he doesn't have that lab, to close a contract with someone with a certificate, under what conditions, at which cost, etc. Furthermore, to own an appropriate room that meets the prescribed conditions for the production and accommodation of tobacco products. So he has to have solutions from the D.O.D. or whoever he has to have a certain warehouse space. Furthermore, to commit to produce or purchase annually domestically processed tobacco in the amount of at least 50 per cent of its own annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic, with that quantity not less than 2 thousand tonnes per year. So he must have contracts. So it's for some permit he might only get, provided the government and the government of the Republic of Serbia decide so. If he makes a deal, buys a tobacco, what's he gonna do with it, doesn't get a license to manufacture tobacco products. Furthermore, to offer a realistic assessment of the achievement of the annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products according to appropriate quality and quantity according to market opportunities. So someone needs to do a financial impact analysis, and it takes some time, because conditions are prescribed, as much as they can produce annually. It is necessary to provide evidence by the competent authority of the non-judgment of a commercial offence or criminal offence in connection with the production of illicit, or illicit trade in cigarettes and other tobacco products for a period of three years, etc. So, some deadline to collect all these files certainly exists. We have often witnessed the launch of a public tender, and the time limit for collecting documents is extremely short, for example when it was an electricity trade. So, when the deadlines were short due to bank guarantees that required a certain procedure, and possible participants simply could not provide bank guarantees within that time, no one stressed that there was no need for it, Mr Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic earned half a billion euros. I think there should be a period of at least 30 days and a maximum of 60 days. So, to be some decent deadline, to publish a tender, that everyone can collect documentation and participate in it. With three ministries doing it here, I'm surprised they could write these things, because in Article 29. The proposal for a law under point 3 of point 1 is that it has installed capacity to produce cigarettes and other tobacco products from its range of at least 2.5 billion pieces in one year. That's the least of it, and let's turn it into packs, as you like to say, or commercial packaging, it's about 50 million. And it is mandatory to use a domestic tobacco in production of 2,000 tonnes, or 2 million kilograms or 100 million packs. Now, in this point 7) simply the capacity provided for in point 3 cannot be fulfilled. Why is this written like this? It is written that only one small circle of people is technically, technologically able to process tobacco, because processors, or tobacco processors, and tobacco products, are absolutely certain, have the highest earnings on tobacco, bigger even than the state through all the taxes. I'm really interested in who this law suits? The most likely corresponds to Stanko Sutotic, called Cana Frog, a man is rich in cigars, Peconi also; as if they were writing this law, not some three ministries, and perhaps they are, but simply by means of a link through the ministry, so it came to the Serbian Parliament. Let's see what it looks like next. In Article 40, this means that the wholesale sale of tobacco products, I think, in Section 4 or 5, is said to mean that wholesale sales means that a person who wants to sell tobacco and tobacco products must pay a guarantee or deposit, as you will, amounting to 80,000 euros and not later than five days before the date of validity of the guarantee. Why does the desire to sell, therefore, the only one in a row, literally from field to trade, pay deposits or guarantees of 80,000 euros? That it's not a fear that big sales will make tax evasion, that it's a legal person, or someone else who deals with it, as registered, will disappear as a taxpayer? Maybe that fear exists. But what about the producers? You think their equipment is a guarantee they'll pay taxes? No, I don't. What about the importers? What guarantee do they have? What immovableity do they have? They have nothing and they don't have to have anything, they don't have to have their own warehouses, they can just rent a warehouse, the lease expires, pick up a pinkle, go away, and there's no money. The largest earnings and the largest tax liability in the value added tax system, in the case of tobacco, are processed tobacco products and importers of tobacco products, not wholesale sales, not retail sales. Then why the desire to place that deposit of 80,000 euros? Probably a tight circle of people dealing with this store again. I don't see what other reason it could be. Tobacco products producers don't have that warranty, deposit, call it whatever you want. Especially the importers don't have any. So they only have stores, merchants or persons dealing with the traffic of tobacco products on a large scale. Furthermore, Article 45 shows intricacies when writing this law, or it is again obvious that a small number of people are engaged in the trade of tobacco products, so it is said in Article 45(4): "The economic operator of Article 1 of this Article can perform a work in a space that meets the conditions of technical equipment, protection of labour and environmental protection and improvement, as well as sanitary-hygienic conditions. "Someone explain to me how these sanitary-hygienic conditions are going to meet, so, wet knots in traffic? What problems will it pose to local self-government, planning and urbanism services, construction directorate, public utility of water and sewerage, that simply, wherever someone comes to mind, and gets the necessary consent and sets up a kiosk, they must be dragged into water and sewers. What will our streets look like, what will our sidewalks look like? On the patches, nothing more. Furthermore, the ministry is really insisting on its originality and says: "The economic operator of Article 1 can carry tobacco products with its own vehicle, which is clearly marked as transporting tobacco products and which meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions, as well as other prescribed conditions. "So, some trafficker who has one or two trafics, to provide for himself one perhaps decent salary and hires five or six people in these trades, will have to buy the most modern means of transport, for example, for 10, 20, 30, 40 kilograms of tobacco products. There's 10 kilos or 50 boxing in one transport box. Calculate what he needs to buy and what he's going to drive in. Stop by some trafic, see how much a box is sold a day, so figure out what it looks like. Furthermore, what should be clearly marked, what is that supposed to mean? Does this mean that these vehicles will be specially controlled, will they be controlled by market surveillance? He can hardly do it alone without the traffic police. So are they specifically controlled or not controlled at all? Or depends on whose they are - are they Canet's or Peconi's? Is that the proposal? Looks to me like it is. So I remain on my claim that this tobacco law is not a story about the introduction of legislation that is in line with the countries of the European Union, that it is a gateway to Europe, as you like to say. This is simply a law written on the hands of mobsters, criminals, in the first place I think of Stanko Subotic, called Cana Frog and Peconia, as if they had written this law, not three ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-26-0.u20922	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I'm concluding a principled search and we're finishing work today. The session continues on Monday 31st. 10 p.m. at 10.00 p.m.
