ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 162 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Novakovic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Miodrag Stamenkovic and (later) Živodarka Dacin. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the market in paper and other financial institutions (single) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Markovic, Zoran Krasic, Branislav Rankic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Boris Karaic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13365	Article 52. The Securities Market Act and other financial instruments provide for the obligation to trade shares in an organised securities market of value for all equity charters of value. It's a good solution and there was no reason for this legal solution to change in these changes and additions. However, it explains: "The proposed legal solution provides for the possibility that property securities of value can also be sold through a public tender, in cases where sales are carried out: actions transferred to the Action Fund in accordance with the law governing the Action Fund; shares whose legal holding is the Republic Fund for PIO employees; shares whose legal holding is the Republic Fund for Development; shares whose legal holding is the Republic of Serbia based on the conversion of demand into capital. "Second position: "The government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to prescribing the procedure and the way in which the paper is sold from the value set out in Article 1. "On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have suggested that Article 1 that this should be deleted, as something that is completely unnecessary for us from the SRS is unacceptable, as it foresees an irregular position of action, given the way in which actions are acquired. We in the SRS think that such a legal solution is not good, that such a legal solution, i.e. the proposal increases the possibility of abuse and monopoly on paper from values issued by the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this will lead to slowdown and new abuses in the process of taking action, and this member and this extension of Article 52, in fact, you have confirmed what we have been talking about these laws for two days, which is the fact that the Serbian Government does not care about some better conditions in the privatisation process, because if it were, it would not wait more than a year to change the law and all of these laws that regulate the privatisation process, and all of this time everyone called on to say that these laws are bad, that these laws make it impossible or slow down normal privatisation in Serbia and for those years and more, it happened with the privatisation of many things, in fact continuity with the privatisations since 2000. And if the rules were parallel between the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, and today Vojislav Kostunica, then certainly a sign of equality, above all, could be placed between the ministers of the economy and privatisation of the current and these former governments. Also in the privatisation processes of nothing good was there in 2001 and the current government, the current government has pledged to revise all suspected privatisations. There was even a particular number, 82 privatisations. From this job, nothing has happened, nothing will continue to happen, with such changes and additions to these laws, Serbia does not expect anything good in the area of privatisation. The paper will continue to increase its circulation of stories and information on illegal privatisations, on suspicious privatisations, on dozens and hundreds of thousands of workers who remain unemployed in the privatisation process. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws will not achieve what the citizens of Serbia expect from this government, which is a better life, these are higher salaries, these are higher pensions, it is a higher level of employment. None of this will be the result of these and these laws. The highlight of this Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments is precisely this attitude that says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to the regulation of the procedure and the way in which the paper is sold than the values set out in Article 1(1). This kind of authority... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Governments are inadmissible. Some honest government would consider this a big ballast, and we express a special reserve on the application of this member when we know that criminals such as Labus and Dinkic sit in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13366	Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13367	It's a good thing that the representatives of the promoters are in the O.R. to get a chance to hear why what they're doing is not good and what they're changing in this law. Article 1 is a practical upgrade, a new Article 52a is inserted, which has problems with constitutionality and legality. It says here-- ownership records of the value of certain publishers. Then it states the way they can be in traffic, which is through a public tender. Four points indicate who is in the portfolio of the action -- the Action Fund, the Republic Fund of PIO employees, the Republican Development Fund, the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a conversion of capital claims. This article makes an exception to the rules. The exception is seen in the fact that the state gets the exclusive right to treat these ownership actions, which contain two rights, first is the right to own, and the second is the right that arises from the action itself as good. According to your logic, you could have put in the Public Procurement Act that such a trade and securities of value was possible, but you didn't do it, because you had this problem for the state to sell the shares it had in the portfolio, which it came to, we have these four grounds here. You forgot one thing, that when a state has its own shares in its portfolio, it appears on the financial market like any other participant, through brokers and other participants in the organised market, and you here, especially with this other position of this member, where you say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making the procedure and the way in which it sells paper of value, you are now, practically, allowing the charter of value to prescribe that it will sell its charters. If this member is adopted, I must warn you that then the National Assembly has exceeded its authority as a legislative authority, because, adopting this member, it has come into a situation that it has also violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and has clearly decided to conflict with other regulations. For your information, I must tell you that what you have stated in the explanation why you do not accept this amendment, when you say "an amendment is not accepted because the sale of the mentioned actions requires a special procedure that enables you to meet the expectations of potential investors" – please do not write this in the explanation. A potential investor is anyone who calls to buy stock on the stock market. Who gave you the right to determine in advance who might be a potential buyer? Furthermore, here you have forgotten only one thing: the publisher of the action is some legal person who is in the privatisation process or perhaps already privatised, and these state associations are just associations that they have in the portfolio, based on law, a certain amount of action. You see, a certain publisher, and a publisher can be the Nis Machine Industry, it could be "Knjiz Milos", could be any other firm. You are now giving the government the right to prescribe that someone will buy it from her. If you had this intention, then you should have built this into the Public Procurement Act, where there is a public tender institute as a way of selling goods. But, actions, even these ownership actions, aren't the good ones that could go to public procurement, the tender. Because of them, there is a special market, a financial market, there is a stock market. There you have made a big mistake and that mistake will also cause what comes next, and in practice you will have a situation that newspaper texts will be filled with various articles, because you also deny the Commission's Institute of Securities of Values, you deny the Institute of Stock Exchanges. I agree that there are some problems on the stock market, but if there are problems on the stock market with the stockbrokers involved, especially the famous one, which is why for the first time has been a public sale, I think it was Ignačević's Attorney's Office, if you have these problems, then solve them on the stock market, and don't solve them in this way that you're going to give the state an exclusive right, so before you forget about one more thing, that there is still a law on funds in the property of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13368	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaičić. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13369	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is your chance to change your mind and accept, on behalf of the motionary - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It may be enough evidence that you allegedly intend to prevent abuses, especially in the case of tender privatisation and privatisation at all. Now, if this imaginary Article 2 remains, or it refers to a member of the 67th existing law, you create possibilities, in an explanation that you have given me for not accepting the amendment, for obvious abuses. You say in the last sentence of the reasons for not accepting the amendment: "It is necessary to leave as many sales as possible, so the competent authorities will always be able to choose the appropriate ones." Here's what that's about. This refers to actions, which were referred to by Radeta, who were transferred to the Action Fund, in accordance with the law; actions whose legal holding is the Republic Fund for PIO employees, it is a large capital and a large stake; actions whose legal holding is the Republic Development Fund; actions whose legal holding is the Republic of Serbia, based on the conversion of demand into capital, and of course, the "Government of the Republic of Serbia", says in the last position of Article 52, "the closer prescribes the procedure and the way in which the paper is sold from the value of the article 1st item". That is the opinion you have conveyed through reason not to accept this amendment. I also have to remind you for public reasons to say what are the two first positions of Article 67, which you say do not apply to the previously mentioned funds, i.e. the owners, when buying and selling. Article 67(1) states: "A person who intends to buy actions with the right to vote of a particular company, based on which to acquire at least 25% of shares with the right to vote of that society, is required to act in accordance with this law. The person in Item 1 of this article who purchases actions on the basis of which at least 25% of the company's voting rights would be acquired, and does not act in accordance with the provisions of this law on bids to take action – cannot exercise the right to vote on the basis of such actions." You are saying that these assets are not covered by the action, i.e. delete the 1st and 2nd position of the existing member 67. We also warned you in the course of a principle debate, because we don't think that's a good solution, that you should leave it as it is now, because it will prevent the possibility of abuse. You know, a broad interpretation of how the sales are really going to be done is unacceptable for us. What is the organ that will determine this, especially when it comes to considering, you know very well, when it comes to tender privatisations and agreements, because there are huge stakes, about two or three competitors: what is it that will go to the end, that gives up, for which millions in euros or in dollars give up on further bidding? So far experience, and especially with the fact that the PIO Fund and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia are here, gives us an open opportunity to suspect that everything here will be clean. Not that it's going to be clean, but with this kind of ajabi sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and who are naked criminals, it's not going to happen, because their godmother-mafian lobby is willing to do anything for those stakes, and it's a 25 per cent capital property, so, fourths, do everything. They are also able to threaten people and to account in the worst possible ways to come into possession of such shares of such a valuable capital. Therefore, it is not good for you to allow the two binding positions of Article 67 to be freely interpreted in such a way as to make purchases and sales, i.e. to be determined by a competent authority. Tell us which authority. If for you the Securities Commission now, in such a government that does not enjoy any support, does not mean anything to us Serbian Radicals and how it means as a completely independent institution, which should work in accordance with the law, without any pressure, without any blackmail or threats, even physically liquidating people. Therefore, accept this amendment to the SRS. However, if you do not do so, we will have to do so in this way and any proposed amendments to this set of laws to change immediately after we take power in the country, which is over a few months, because this is obvious evidence that Serbia's citizens and everything they have invested in throughout their lifetime and working life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13370	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13371	Experience suggests that since the Law on Public Procurement was adopted, there has been an increase in criminal supply, resale, agreed public tenders, through which goods are being purchased or sold. These positive experiences of public enterprises are also illustrated when it comes to this form of privatisation. Article 2 You are changing the provisions of Article 67. You are inserting a new attitude 4 that says that the first and second positions of this member will not apply if the actions, which are in the portfolio of these republican organisations, are sold through a public tender. Here you have forgotten attitude 3 which states that the provisions of the first and second positions of this member are not applied when the SRJ, please, you have destroyed the SRJ, it is the state community, or the republics are buying actions. I have to tell you, the state community is in no position to buy action. The restrictions of St. 1 and 2 relate to whether more than 25% of the shares of a particular legal person have been purchased or secured. In addition to the obvious advantage given to participants in a public tender, as future investors guaranteeing something, they are allowed here when traded these actions, the ownership actions of the Action Fund, the Development Fund, the Republic Fund of PIO, and also synthetically listed and the actions held by the Republic of Serbia, which are available on behalf of the Republic of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In these actions, we will always have problematic public tenders, because the condition that will be decisive when deciding on the sale of these shares will not only be the price or value to be achieved, but also those inventions: investment investments, social funds and some other whistles that should give priority to someone. I don't know who came up with this way, given that "Knjiz Milos" is a good example where there's been an indetermination of our regulations on trade in shares that are in the portfolio of the state. You must have chosen the wrong way, because in this way you're actually showing us that you don't even know what those actions are for. In the next Act on the Action Fund, you will see for yourself, you give even the right to vote, and you do not know who is using the right to vote. This controlled chaos is only a function of perhaps the third or fourth stages of privatisation, which is no different from the one that started. It doesn't make any difference. It's just a game of words, a game of concepts, a game of paper, which needs to cloud the essence, to show us as something of expertise, and please, in the Law of Papers of Value who puts in a public tender, then it's not about expertise, it's about ignorance and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13372	Thank you, Mr. Krasic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13373	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not repeat what my colleagues have said about this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law. However, a practical question is now being raised, what if these republican authorities, which can broadcast securities of value, are broadcasting and selling one part of the securities through a public tender and the other part on the stock market. Whether the rights, and now perhaps already two owners of the same actions, are only sold in two different ways, evenly. All these members who follow behind this show they're not. In Article 2. The bill says that the provisions of Article 67 of the law do not apply to actions sold through a public tender. What does it say in Article 67, paragraphs 1 and 2. "The person who intends to buy actions with the right to vote of a particular company, based on which to acquire at least 25% of the company's voting rights, is required to act in accordance with this law. The person referred to in Article 1 of this Article who purchases actions on the basis of which at least 25% of shares with the right of the company to vote in that position, and does not act in accordance with the provisions of this law on offer to take action, cannot exercise the right to vote on the basis of the actions acquired. "If someone buys you 25% of the shares through the tender they have the right to vote, whether they comply with the provisions of this law or not. The person who buys 25% of stock on the stock exchange must respect the provisions of the law contained in Article. In the 69th and 70th laws, which say: the purchase of shares with the right to vote of a particular company, based on which at least 25% of shares with the right to vote of that society can only be made by offering to take action. In the following position, the tenders referred to in Article 1 shall not be made without a preliminary decision on its approval, which shall be made by the Securities Commission. I contain a request for the approval of the tenders referred to in Article 1 and other documentation to be submitted on request by the Securities Commission. It keeps a register of solutions on the approval of bids for takeover. Article 70 states - the offerer is obliged to refer the offer from Article 69 of this Law to all legal holders of actions in a special form. The content of the form is prescribed by the Commission. This means that the person who buys shares based on a tender that would be called by a particular body that we don't know about, because the legal solution doesn't see who's responsible for it, means who buys by that basis from a public tender, all the other owners of the actions who broadcast the action won't know who bought the management rights 25% and more, because it's not registered in the register. The Commission does not know about securities of value. We are witnessing the practice of tendering, which you all, gentlemen colleagues, know from the experience you have in privatisation, very easily furnished. It seems to me that those who bought enterprises that were in social property, that they were also writing amendments and additions to this law, that the companies that were in state property would buy at a small door.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13374	I thank Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it has been strictly divided into executive, legislative and judicial powers, there has always been intensity, aspirations, especially by the executive authority, to get a little into the ban on the other two authorities. Remember, for example, when Batic was one time, at a time when your bulldozer revolution passed, he wanted to be a judge, and a prosecutor, and at the very end of the line and a executioner, because he asked that death penalty be entered into the law. It might be in some way normal. Whoever has a part of the government would always grab from other branches a little more power. It is also a strict division of these three branches of government and the only defense of abuse that would result from these encroachments of power. Article 262a of the Law on the Market of Papers determines the value when this law does not apply to the transport of actions, in particular to the transfer of property without fees on securities issued by banks from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia under the Law on the regulation of the relationship between SRJ and legal persons and banks from the territory of the SRJ which are original debtors, and then refers to trade in securities issued by banks when the legal holder of these actions is the Republic of Serbia under the Law on the regulation of relations, etc. and the trade in shares issued by banks when the legal holder of these actions is the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the conversion of the claim. The law is decadently clear - the provisions of this law on trade in securities of value on an organised market are not applicable. The government of the Republic of Serbia is trying, through the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Values Act, in Article 3, to amend Article 262a in the first position, so that in the introductory words of the "requirements of this law" are replaced, so as to say - if the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not different, the provisions of this law etc. In other words, an act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which can be a regulation, which could be the letter of one minister in the far line, will be older than the law that this National Assembly has passed. Directly affecting the authorities and the National Assembly and in a direct way breaking the laws that this National Assembly has passed. I understand that some may have increased their appetites, for a few months ago, the institutions of the National Assembly are muddying, muddying, demeaning, and looking at every possible way to collapse. This is exactly why you do it. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which I asked for item 1 to be deleted by means of the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To remain that the government cannot change the essence of the law by its regulation. I have been answered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia - the amendment is not accepted because of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill allows the government of the Republic of Serbia to apply the law only in tax-listed cases, when otherwise the application of other provisions of the law is excluded. So if the application of the provisions of the law is excluded, it cannot be regulated by the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by a secretary in the ministry, because it is also an act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is further said - namely, the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not change, nor can the law be amended, as an act of the legislative authority, but it is an urgency to be given the possibility of the executive act, and again - not changing the law but changing the law, but allowing the application of a regulation that will change the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything loses its meaning if this and the amendment submitted by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the MP, and the amendment in general, submitted by the SRS MPs, are not accepted. I understand the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into that ban where there are securities of value... (The President - Time) )......................................................................................................... who are directly in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and if they change a lot of things there, so that some authorities bear little scratches in this way. However, it is unacceptable and unacceptable to do something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13376	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic. Please, at least we'll be holding on to the frame for about five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13377	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems to me that the MPs who voted on the committees have not entered into the essence of the amendment submitted by my colleague Momir Markovic. The non-acceptation of this amendment is a humiliation both to the National Assembly and to us as MPs. We've just seen through the previous explanation that this article 3. The bill is in fact authorized by the executive body, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to amend the provisions of the law passed by the Serbian Parliament as a representative of the legislative authority. Now the question is, what do we serve? And why are MPs sitting here for days and nights, preparing for debates in this House, writing and submitting amendments. Unfortunately, this same legislative authority sabotages us in a certain way, because many legislative proposals are being sent, so it removes them from the regular one, so it removes them from the emergency room and puts them on a regular procedure, to shorten our deadlines for studying these laws, to shorten our deadlines for submitting amendments, and to eventually ask them to authorise them to amend the laws that we are passing. Well, if they don't need a congregation, let them relax it, let them rule, it may be easier for them, it will certainly be easier for them, one such authority will be removed from the public's eyes, and it will surely be much easier for them to finish their criminal work, which began on October 6, 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13378	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member to whom we have submitted the amendment, namely Mr Markovic, refers to an offer to take over the most problematic piece of the Charter Market Act. The government has given itself the right to exempt individual actions from the takeover process, fighting in such a way as to get a more favourable price for those actions and to fill in the Republic's budget as best as possible. It is absolutely immoral that she completely forgot the small shareholders who, because of the offer of takeover and the inability to price these actions to which the offer applies verifies through the market, cannot come to the right price, but because of their actions by budgets are bought out by factory circles. It is necessary to find those actions within the draft amendments and additions to this law, as it is nearly 700,000 small shareholders and, by some estimate, capital of nearly three million euros. If the government is struggling to achieve the price of action as best possible, which is perfectly fine, it was necessary to allow it to be possible for small shareholders. Unfortunately, this complete proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Market of Securities is, in the right sense, incorrect, not to use any harsher term, because this Law on the Market of Securities is also imposed from the Federal Assembly. The Republic Assembly had never had the opportunity to discuss it and what had to be done so far, it is quite certain, to propose a new law on the market for securities of value. I have the impression that the question of whether it will go to a new one, whether there will be changes and additions to the existing one, is still not agreed among the people who should pass the law, and above all at the Ministry of Finance. We have come into a situation today that we do not have enough investment in the economy, that the economy is financed by expensive loans without the financial market being fully developed. Not only do we not have a value market law, we don't have a investment fund law, the market itself, and in some ways accounting and audit, where we would have a much better balance, on which we could possibly count on foreign investment, because investment is the biggest problem of our economy right now. I would like to say once again that it is necessary to urgently pass a law on the securities market, in order to come into a situation where we are fighting for the economy, for new jobs, rather than for the Ministry of Finance to deal with tax policy first. It's okay, we need that, too, but we need more new jobs and the possibility of our citizens living more politely than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13380	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am taking the opportunity to inform MPs - and the law on investment funds and the law on the securities market has been prepared by the Commission, so the bodies chosen independently by this assembly, and it is now passing the legal procedure of the government. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13381	At least two decisions of the Constitutional Court since 2000 are very clear to date, and they say the word procedure and way is one and the same, that these are actually two synonyms for the same thing. In this Article 262a, in addition to this intervention in Section 1, where you say the Government can decide whether or not to apply the law, which is obviously unconstitutional and forbidden, we draw attention to you for entering the forbidden waters. I also draw your attention to the position of the 2nd member, which says: "The government of the Republic of Serbia is drawing closer to the procedure and way of trade in the paper in the first article's position. "Then I don't know if anyone's clear now. The government decides whether to apply the law, and then says the government rules, and the Charter Act of Value contains provisions that regulate trade in securities of value on an organised market. I don't know what the government is supposed to prescribe right now. I guess that's why there's this law. And he says, "Offer to take action." Of course, there is a special chapter in taking action, with the authority of the Securities Commission, and we had practice with "Knjiza Milos". However, what I have covered in this amendment concerns something that is the fourth item of the agenda of this session. You say, in fact, that the provisions of this law will not apply and when it comes to trading securities of value, and these are actions issued by banks, when, in accordance with the law, the legal holder of those actions, the Deposit Insurance Agency, the recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks (read G17 plus), when it comes to trading in actions issued by banks, when the legal holders of these actions by a special contract, which must be concluded in writing, have authorised the Insurance Agency, etc. Probably a "special contract" means the state, because the Deposit Insurance Agency is not authorized to make some business arrangements with other people. You have now tried to complete something, a conscious problem that exists, as regards Article 9. The Action Fund Act. It wasn't enough for you to be in that article on the Action Fund Act, but you wanted to pretend a little bit that in this law, which regulates the procedure or, as you say, the procedure and way of trade in securities of value on the organised market and outside the market, you added one category called a public tender, characteristic of public procurement. You've been devalued in terms of values. They're no longer papers, they've become material goods. For you, the value charter has become one car tire and you think about that car tire that you have, and it looks like a value charter, that you can achieve a much higher price, and you have forgotten what the concept of a paper of value is. So experts don't know what the concept of paper is. Of course we're against this, because this is how you force the National Assembly to abuse its legal and constitutional authority to prescribe something, so that it favors to unsuspecting proportions of anyone who has in the name of the state in a portfolio of some action. In particular, Article 3 concerns the stock held in its portfolio again by that association, which can be said G17 plus. We raise our voice against it, we inform the public and all those who think they write to the Constitutional Court: you will not make a mistake, this is all unconstitutional, and it is likely that Vučetic will undo it. Because this kind of abuse just shows us, because it's a regular practice that the state is not a good businessman, that privates do it much better, then by this logic the state doesn't know anything, so it doesn't even know that it's running state affairs, so let's get some private guy to run state affairs. We recognize this privatisation of the state, and therefore we ask these amendments to return as much to normal as possible, without calling for any great expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13382	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, deputy G17 Plus MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13383	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the G17 plus, as you know, has always stood up for work and the initiative to solve problems. In that name, I would ask you to continue to do so and to do so today. In that sense, I would really like to ask everyone not to use the name G17 plus when it's not necessary and especially not to use it when it's incorrect. I really think that we should all advocate tolerance in political performance and speech and tolerance in mutual communication. I'll remind you that these days are marked by a struggle for tolerance. I urge you to really, and as someone who deals with these problems, we show the younger ones, and also our citizens how to do it. It is not good that we use the ugliest possible words for this speaker, and the citizens of Serbia would never support it. In that sense, I invite you to really say things that I won't repeat, but the least of them are criminals and thieves, we don't use for this pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself claimed yesterday that to say someone is a criminal, we should prove it in court, but I would remind you, a criminal is someone who violates the law. For G-17 plus so far, there have been no such indications, but for some other parties it is. I will not read now in this performance how and in what way all laws are broken, but I will remind you that non-payment of taxes, non-payment of bills, is certainly a legal violation and that those who do so can be called names that you are very happy to use. G-17 plus, on the contrary, he didn't break the law, nor did he break the law. G-17 plus doesn't leave debts behind, like some did, and of course we have that data. G-17 Plus, it repays debts to Serbian citizens, repays the loan for the rebirth of Serbia that was taken away from Serbian citizens, returns the old foreign currency savings, returns debts to abroad, full of foreign reserves, and we have all the data on what they were at a time when people from G-17 plus came to where they are, and what they are now. So, Serbia's budget works well, pensioners are not given electricity, heating and heating bonuses, but pensions are given, and regular pensions from the budget, which are filled with taxes that all citizens, including G-17 plus, of course, pay. I call upon you to behave in this way and to use facts in communication. Of course, I'm ready to pick up after the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13384	National MP Krasic, I assume, according to the Rules of Procedure, because he did not use any of the above words. According to the Rules of Procedure, wrongly interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13385	Mr. President, under Article 100(4). I'm really uncomfortable with someone misreading what I said from this pay phone. I haven't used any names, I've just found out that some parties are dominated by some state institutions, and I haven't made that kind of recognition possible for you. Now I don't understand the purpose of your replica, I don't want to affect the quality of your replica or what you're going to say. However, when you go out for a pay phone and try to replicate something for me, then find some connective tissue with what I said from this pay phone. I've just announced from this pay phone, and I'm underlining that the G-17 Plus party is also dominated by the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation, that it's proud of it, that through this agency you've stabilized the montern market, now you have the right to manage the assets of banks in bankruptcy and liquidation, and you've gone here to law enforcement. Just to remind you, the nine convictions of the highest court in this country of the institution, in which the domination has G-17 plus, do not respect, and it is similar with other judgments and other decisions. It's similar to insurance companies, it's similar to all other institutions where, by any chance, there's a fall in some kind of administrative act that's signed in an institution where G-17 plus has dominating, and simply G-17 plus doesn't accept it, because people think they're the law. You saw for yourself, your Minister Dinkic said, The National Assembly is a public enterprise, it's not a legislative body, it's a public enterprise. If you respect the Constitution and the law, calm it down a little bit, explain it to him, you must have some people experts for the Constitution, so they can tell him, Mr. Dinkic, the National Assembly is a legislative body, it comes in here with a "good afternoon", it's explained, it's the inconvenience of the MPs who are solving, and that's the task of getting rid of the minister and the government, to shake it out and see what's going to ring, whether it's going to fall out. Don't use nice words to defend something I didn't even attack. I didn't attack it, I just realized what you guys were bragging about, how it all started. Pensions are paid regularly, you made a mistake, they're not paid out of the budget, they're paid out of the PIO fund, and what's a little missing goes out of the budget, and don't misinformed our people. They think pensions are paid out of taxes only. They've earned it with their contributions, their payments, and you as experts can't make these alphabetical mistakes, that's all I'm pleading for. We use facts, then we cross-reference attitudes, don't prefer now, and here you boast with the agency, how you took out the banks, how you fixed the market financially, how you took care of everything possible, and then you go out here and attack it. Don't let me defend you in your party, don't, I'm very embarrassed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13386	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Replica, this has been an exposure to the Rules of Procedure. Replica, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13387	Of course, the gentleman didn't use any ugly words at this time, but one MP before him from the same party used the term "criminals" and called the criminals our party's leaders. You'll allow it to be very ugly words and that I'm only in one order that just kept calling G-17 plus out to say that it would be good, in order to constructively continue our discussion, that it doesn't happen anymore. As for my previous replica, it referred to that G-17 plus is equal to certain institutions in the country and also, calling for legal order, I must say that no party is an institution, that no government can give itself such a mandate. So, G-17 plus participates in power, G-17 plus has assumed responsibility in some institutions, but G-17 plus is not the same institution as you, sir, you said in your speech and stenographic notes can testify to that. I reacted that the Agency is not equal to G-17 plus, that the Ministry of Finance is not equal to G-17 plus. Of course, we stand behind our taking responsibility and doing business in those areas well and responsibly. And of course pensions aren't paid in full from the budget, and you're right about that. They are paid out of the fund where the citizens used to pay. I'm going to remind you that this fund, I'm going to say it mildly, but I'm not going to use the right word about what happened to it at the time you were in power. So, unfortunately, the pension fund doesn't work properly, because it's completely empty in some other time, so now we have to go from the budget to a large extent to supplement the health fund, and the pension fund and all the other funds, and of course, by paying taxes, it's paid out of the budget. So, the truth works, it is. You will only allow one more correction, as regards the Minister of Finance and his relationship with the Assembly, you are absolutely wrong, because it is not about who is above whom, and the subject that Mr. Finance was talking about was not about the Parliament being a public enterprise, but about the Assembly, as well as everyone else, having to respect the laws and that is absolutely clear. The minister was doing his job. He was protecting the budget, and the budget, I'll remind you, we voted here, and it's perfectly normal that we respect him and I don't see any misunderstandings about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13388	Here you go, Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13389	Of course, the same injury, the same thing. It's a good thing you didn't interrupt your previous speaker. But I have to tell you, you have to qualify for a conversation. If you took the PIO Fund to honor me, you made a big mistake. I worked in that fund and wrote regulations 15 years ago. The PIO funds broke away before 1990 because of the wrong concept of current pension financing. Don't tie it to 1998. Already in 1991-1992, there were no funds in that fund. You need to know a little bit, to study a little book. Study this economy of destruction, there's something written there. You have to deal with facts. The worst thing is when you go out for a pay phone and start some kind of abuse. It's not like you said. Second, you're saying some things about Minister Dinkic. Please, for defending him, we could have put an end to the agenda, so come out for two hours to defend him. They'd applaud you after every defense. But you're avoiding it. You don't allow that defense. We're going to have a point four where we're going to find out a little bit how those banks were shut down. We'll talk, we'll have the statutes of the National Bank of Serbia, and we'll talk about it for a while. Let him come, we don't bite. He's got a bill to make. It's time. It's a year and a few days of this government. There's got to be an account. You see for yourself, citizens are unhappy, looking for a solution, identifying where the problem is. Why are you stopping us from doing our job? According to the automation of 20 MPs, there is no question of the Assembly whether they will, whether they will not. It's on the agenda, the debate opens up, there's talk of it. You're avoiding a debate. We're not going to argue with you over B92. We want to go here. Here are the people's representatives. B92 are some of the other people's representatives. Thank God, we had a fight over those couples, so she went to BK.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13390	Thank you. Of course, all the points of the Rules of Procedure will come to the agenda. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. I thought this tolerable approach of previous conversators had exhausted the subject, so let's get back to the law. Here, it's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13391	The theme is not exhausted because a colleague of G17 plus has made an obvious step error. I was talking about the amendment to Article 1 and I said that Labus and Dinkic are criminals. Mr. Zoran Krasic spoke about the amendment to Article 3 and only then did the colleague intervene for what I said an hour ago. I'm not a messenger, I'm a MP. That may be the basic reason why I answered. The words: a criminal and a thief are neither ugly nor good words, these are the normal words of a Serbian language, but it is ugly to be a criminal and a thief. It's even uglier to be a criminal and a thief, so to be Deputy Prime Minister and to be Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13392	Replica, please, deputy chairman of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13393	Thank you. Now I will allow myself one quote: At the time of the SRS government in Zemun municipal authorities sold 6,596 plots, on which between 1,500 and 2,000 temporary facilities, total area more than 4.5 million squares. According to data, the revenue generated from the sale of wages exceeds 230 million dinars. The question is, where did that money go, since the radical authorities in Zemun left the Municipality's register with a debt of 68 million dinars. The public company ZIPS was a flow water heater for the transfer of the municipality's budget funds to the account of the SRS and the people of the party. So, for example. On the basis of the decision of the Management Board of 12.1.1999, the SRS has allocated basic funds to manage and manage the total amount of 2.242,559.000 dinars. The value of 77,000 marks. Remember, Serbian citizens, in 1999, what that meant, what your salaries were then. Of course the sales tax wasn't paid. Is this a crime, ladies and gentlemen, and who is the criminal? On the contrary, during the radical government there was no savings in banks. Remember if you were allowed to put one dinar in the bank. Today, it is 1.4 billion euros. Whether the banks are ruined or not, let the citizens of Serbia say themselves. Is that when they were allowed to put a dime in the bank and are they allowed to put it in today? Is the point of having countless banks that will rob us and live on our account, or is the point of having a healthy banking system, where we can save and where we can have loans like we have today, among other things, long-term housing loans. As for foreign reserves, they rose from 360 million to 4.3 billion dinars. It's our common treasure. This is what G17 plus and what the current and previous government has done for Serbian citizens. What was before that, I recommend that the citizens of Serbia forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13394	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, right to replication, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13395	Yeah, you said something that's true, and a lot that's a lie. Verica Markovic probably signed over 5,000 decisions on the sale of salaries. But don't mix your grandmothers and frogs, it's a crying sale to build houses for the poor, who was expelled from Republika Srpska and who no one in Serbia wanted to receive except for the Zemun municipality. That poor girl made houses. You will give me another municipality in Serbia that has separated more than 50 plots for residential construction for people who have been expelled from Croatia. It has nothing to do with temporary objects. Locations for the temporary takeover of the public surface, this does not apply to hundreds of thousands and millions of squares, but to two to three squares, as much as one kiosk takes place. My dear lady, when you came to power after the SRS with this story, you destroyed a total of 17 objects in Zemun. Where these thousands of objects were erected at a time of radicals illegally, past regulations, usurpation. Why don't you destroy what exists? After that, in all of Serbia, each municipality went in this way, in some ways hiring people and legalising what they are doing. They were no longer selling cigarettes in cardboard boxes, rain, snow, wind, sun, but in the facility, so there came a financial officer, and a market, and sanitary, check books Don't get it. You haven't had enough yet. [[The voices from the bench.]] It's not your minute yet. That's the truth about Zemun, and we so badly ruled in Zemun, that after that filthy flood on October 5th, the SRS again won in Zemun. If we were thieves there and we weren't doing a good job, the people of Zemun would never vote for us. When we first came to power in Zemun, our victories went from the 32nd polling place. In the center of Zemun, you know how it goes, number one from the center and spreads to the side, we didn't win in the center of Zemun. We won this time from the 12th polling place. Only 12 polling stations in Zemun don't beat the SRS. We're going to win those 12, you know that very well. I'm interested in something else. What's with all the savings in the banks? Whose banks are you saving in? Is that Beobanka, the Belgrade Bank, the South Bank? What's the name of these banks? Where does this money that saves our citizens at low interest in foreign banks go? It's coming back to those same citizens through loans with very high interest rates. What long-term loans? Did he promise us that your current finance minister, when he came to power for the first time as governor, with a rifle when he came in and no one was found to stop him from coming in, did he say - in a year you'll have new cars, in two years' time new houses and apartments? Is that what he told the citizens of Serbia? Where is it now? What do you think of what Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus and their gangs are doing? Don't just take out and carry the papers that someone wrote you. Play a debate about what happened in these five years in Serbia. Let's have a debate over this pay phone, get the documents, see who you support, which you mobs support. You're honest people, and you don't know what this is about. The party task -- it defends Dinkic, it will be attacked by radicals. Who are you defending? What did he bring Serbia? Yesterday you boast of seducing order in Serbia. You know who's seducing order in the state. (Glass from the hall: Jocic. Yes, he's being seduced by Jocic. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. When someone tells me they're seducing order, I mean the police, I don't mean the finance minister. He's seducing the Secretary of Finance! He's closing the store because of the muffins. You take bribes and corruption where you get there. You made billionaires out of some Serbian citizens, you made a job out of the money the people hold in the National Bank. A job for some bandits from your ranks. Don't brag at all. We don't want to embarrass you. Bring this young man Dinkic, we'll beat him up, we'll jump him out like a shallow stream.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13396	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Nikolic, I'd like to ask all the speakers and you to pay attention in time. The time for replication, according to the Rules of Procedure, as well as the time for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is only three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13397	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to accept this expert manner of reading someone else's. We just had a chance to listen to the plagiarism of a speech a few days ago. Here we have a citizen from Prokuplje and says very nicely, interestingly: "Look wonders, then the Labus-Dinkic-Janjusevic-Kolesar family comes to the scene, because then the new DOS as chairman of the Management Board of the "Dunav Insurance" sets up Miroljub Labus, and Mrs Oliver Labus works at the Federal Finance Ministry, Security Department. They quickly joined together and offered me a settlement." The man has trouble charging insurance of 10-15m euros, being harassed for ten years and hoping, Labus -- an expert -- came to say it would end quickly. He says, "They joined together quickly and offered me a settlement: that I was represented by Dr. Miroljub Bogdanovic, in that I should take the goods from him, with an almost expired deadline, worth 148 million dinars, and that the Labus family is behind, and that, according to their agreement, I should get about 20-30 million marks, but on one condition - that through Zlatko Bogdanovic, or through my company, I would wash about 500 million dollars, which would be bought by the London firm Morgenstern." They explained to me how all this can be done, because then the bank governor Dinkic plans to close all branches of the National Bank, so that no paper in the National Bank remains, nor would a trace be known, and I would get my money." Promise, he wants to testify. Here, I'm calling the D.A. to get back to you, and we're putting this together. Now I understand why Kljajevic can't change. He must be the President of the Trade Court, because now I will only list names for this time, Labus, Stamenic, director of "Dunava", Bogdanovic, Mira Gazivoda, Kljajevic, Judge Gordic, Snezana Janic was the only positive character, but you also used Dragomir Jovanovic's court scribe. Then Tanja Dinkic, Olivera Labus, Labus, Dinkic, Janjusevic, HVB bank, is known to you, experts. And then Judge Stojanovic. You even transferred the Supreme Court Secretary to the Danube Security. In the end, the Petrovic brothers, and in the end, former Colonel Ljubodrag Ristic, with outlawed men from 63rd parachute. The man lived to be kidnapped at the end of last year and forced by experts to sign the cell at 2m euros, in order to give up a fee of 10m, perhaps more euros. Judge Free Savior helped. A few days ago, you elected him Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, 35 years ago. Even when it's settled, where it's arranged, whose son, by whose name, works. That's G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13398	The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. I'd like to ask you to refrain from reporting again after this, so we can proceed with the amendment. If that's not the case, I'll be forced to take an hour off. So sooner we'll use the lunch break, unless the Assembly can continue on a regular basis. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you remember these newspapers well, and that's the 1998 European. That's when you were in power. It says here, "Fearers of Fear." Is it possible that you still live in that time and don't know that much has changed and that you are no longer important on the political scene of Serbia? Your programme then said: "We will not allow the president of Serbia, nor the Prime Minister, nor the ministers, nor the state administration to receive the salary until the last pensioner and worker is calmed down." You were doing exactly the opposite. Also, Mr. Nikolic, Olji Beckovic, in "The Imprint of the Week", before you became part of the government, you said, "It depends on what you expect of life. If you want to live happily and have everything in abundance, that you can do the dirtiest and most suspicious jobs, then it is ideal to be a government." That's what you said and came to power. Then you got an apartment of 186,47 m2 from the Serbian government, in the hardest time for the state of Serbia, seduced by the solution number... (President: Mr. Albianic, I apologize, but we're not going anywhere like this. We've already said we won't bring personal stuff out. So, your demagogy ends nowhere. Then, your programme says: "We will first allow Serbia to breathe, to have citizens know democracy, that they can freely express their opinions and have the right to hear their opinions. "And then you passed a famous information law, and you started closing down all the media, including this one. Well, it says, "We object to any arrest for ideas, opinions and questions under any circumstances. The right to freedom of thought and conscience will be protected by law," paste passed a law on the university and began to banish respected professors of the university, to beat them in front of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, etc. Also, a contract to rent space for programmes between the Youth Sports House and pioneers "Pinki", whose director is Aleksandar Vukic, and the Business Area, whose director is Tomislav Nikolic. The contract envisions the recreation of workers "business space" in Pinki, and there is a copy of the contract and account in that period signed by Vukic, and it is interesting that the account charges 110,000 dinars for the recreation of 296 workers, the "business space" had only 34. How do you explain that difference and what did you do? What I've said many times, and you don't think straight, because you're actually in pain with your own statements that you've made in the past, during your active... (Tomislav Nikolic: And where were you at that time? ). At the time, I'd trampled the streets of Belgrade for 10 years fighting against people like you. That's why I'm not sorry, on the contrary, we managed to get you out of power in 2000. During the active and public participation of the SRS in power, I have repeated this several times, the owner of this list has been killed. You, Mr. Nikolic, later stated that you were not sorry for this murder. So, enough of that kind of empty demagogues, stories, and other things. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia who we threw out of power on October 5th. Enough of this nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13400	Please, MPs, please try to continue to work towards the agenda. The word was asked for by Mr Nikolic and I pray that after that we try a moderate tone to continue our work. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13401	First, I'm happy you can quote my statements from both 10 and 15 years ago. I've always been asked to make a statement for the paper. I was important. My opinion has always been important. Here, to review all the newspapers since there is a multi-party system, if until two months ago there is any statement by Albianic, I will eat these newspapers that were interested in a statement by an Albianic and another from G17 Plus. Just one thing to warn you about. I appreciate this shooting, just don't tie me to any murder, 'cause it doesn't make any sense. You can tell me anything, but not that; you can tell me and I said I didn't regret it, I said, I don't regret it. I see, you're sorry, so only when you need it, you take out that newspaper that shows up in my statement. The murder has nothing to do with any Serbian radical. This crime thing has nothing to do with any Serbian radical. Mr. Albianic, when we win, if I have such evidence as you say you have against the SRS, an investigation will be opened against you. There's gonna be a trial. You're saying you have evidence against the radicals, how no criminal charges were filed, how come you, who from this pay phone, say we're serious criminals, how come you don't file a criminal charges? I find out that this criminal, that he, I file criminal charges, is my conscience washed. Let the embarrassment of the prosecutor be now, let the shame of the judiciary, let the President of the Government be disgraced for not chasing the criminals, and you here show your two-facedness and hypocrisy. I know Tomislav Nikolic, you're a criminal, but I won't report you. Why don't you turn me in? You can tell everything here about me, and the lie and the truth, please, but don't tie me to murder. I'm really ruthless here. I don't approve of anyone's murder. I wouldn't protect any murderer. I don't let anyone tie me to murder or insinuation. It's so transparent, Mr. Albian, I'm not a little kid. So you're saying, the owner of this newspaper was killed, and you're quoting what I said in that paper. So you could tie me to any murder in Serbia, I've made a statement to everyone, I've had my say about everyone. You can't reduce this SRS rise, or the downfall of a company called G17 plus. Whenever there's an election, if we don't show up anywhere else, we'll win the next election. You could reduce the G17 plus, but you need to get in a fight with thieves and criminals. You're not ready for that. I have no proof for you that you're a thief and a criminal, and if I had one here, I'd say. I'm taking out the ones I have proof of. Clear with that in your ranks, or you may think two people from your party can destroy the financial sector in Serbia. Maybe you think they're right and maybe it's just by charging and getting a fiscal bill for a sold-out pretzel in a bakery. Maybe that's an excuse for G17 plus. Let's turn all of us now into fiscal-account hunters, and in the meantime you'll be heartening banks, insurance companies and the National Bank. (President: Time.) ) You and today you are hearting the National Bank, day and day it's a company G17 plus. Today, money is poured out of the People's Bank and stands on suspicious, weak accounts abroad, which finance buying and selling goods across Serbia. Now you two look at each other a little bit. If people knew you enough on the street and knew you were from G17 plus, how would you feel on the street? Out of the O.R.: Proud. Proud? For what? You in beautiful eyes. And what else can you be proud of?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13402	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic, direct mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer for a word, but I can see yesterday, I push today, every time I'm not here. Then he gets a sudden attack of courage from this genius, and then he thinks he can and can say what comes to his mind and how he thinks. Now I have to say, another material has not reached Tom Nikolic yet. Mr. Nikolic, it's a big thief. He's not as naive as he looks. The big thief, along with the CEO of Galenika, and with some other people, here's what they did, and I'll bring you some real papers and see what they did and how they did. They ordered, put out a tender, a gang called a tender for 50 cars to buy. We built all the malt cars and made it all work for "Fiat." But he can't get past the tender. They were more successful than any other company, any other cars, any damage or anything else. It doesn't matter. They didn't make it. Then they say, now we're not going to buy those 50 cars, now we're going to do what, that what we asked to buy for God's sake, now we're going to rent 50 cars, so they rented it for five years, believe it or not, 50 cars, the Fiats, of course. Payed them as much as 50 new cars. What a thief it is. That thief comes out here for a pay phone to tell anyone anything. You're some great authority, Mr. Albian, you're a great authority, come on, arrest if you have anything to arrest. We're proud of the fact that five years later you can't do anything to any Serbian radical because unlike you, they're not thieves. What you were making up, there's no bills, there's a co-operation contract and there's people going to be recreational, and for that, Pinky's charging services, and that's a very important thing. It's no liquidation. It's a business-technical co-operation contract. Don't worry, it exists, it's learned in the first year of law school and it's all else recorded. No one's ever gone anywhere for that, because for God's sake, it's the job of someone who works at Pinky, that's the essence of his work, that's what he's supposed to do. I also have a letter, I'll bring it to you this afternoon to read, the DOS director, the last time you mentioned me and these yellow ones, you said something about it, so he sent a letter and said even in a letter that workers would always remember in the best way that time was, and perhaps the best for the Pinky employees, and for the center itself and for everyone else. And, from Pinky, unlike you, you thieves, I didn't take a single dime. I wasn't getting paid. I didn't take any extras. I didn't take any action. I didn't take anything. (Glass - and stamps? No, as I hear it, you didn't want the stamps either, but you were moving something in the Swiss francs to the Marshall Islands, and now you're moving to the dollar and the euro. It's the only change you have that happened in the meantime. And there's one more thing you should know. I know the geniuses are going to think of something else, as your rating drops to about 2.5%, you're out there right now, there's a big battle now to get to those 2.5%, and you're going to be showing increasing anxiety. I don't mind. Just show it, just do it, I expect, of course, and we're going out for a pay phone for the citizens of Serbia, so we can tell them what kind of thieves you are one more time to show them... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. )......................................................................................................... to tell them to stay away from thieves. As you know, Mr. Markovic, our time is yet to come. Yours is almost over. Maybe one day he'll come back in the far future. Now, to show the citizens what kind of thieves you are, to stay away from you, to run from you, not to work with you, or to do any business, because it can be dangerous for them. And always, at any moment, and when they shake hands with you, they kind of look in their pockets, and God damn it, they count their fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13404	Here you go, Mr. Albian, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13405	Mr. Vukic, as far as the cars you're talking about are concerned, everyone knows I have a used car stamped "sytroen" eight years old. Everyone knows I normally walk the streets of Belgrade and Serbia, regardless of your threats and other nonsense. No matter what. But what's very important is that you can't get rid of the rhetoric where you lived and worked. It is good that you recognized yourself earlier when I said who was the Minister of Information and what was happening during that period in the state of Serbia. You're very well aware of the way you've been acting in a way that's ossious and arrogant. So much ossion and boasto that at the time you served as director of the Pinky Hall, you obtained 100,000 dinars on the name of the advertising for the mentioned hall. The ad was published in the SRS, which you call "The Great Serbia" newspaper. Curuvia's Daily Telegraph has in its time revealed this malversion of yours. In the "Argument" list, you said, "I will avenge myself eventually, then, Slavko Curuvija. "Serbian word no. 361. What's important to say, is that during this period of the 1990s, you're actually back-stealing everything, everything that Serbs in this century have created -- state and national territories, in the Western military alliance of the status of allies from two world wars, you've turned our country into actually getting enemies in all Western European countries. You have brought down the full reputation of the state and the nation. We've been expelled from all international institutions. The European identity of Serbs has been destroyed. We have withdrawn from the ethnic territories of Croatia and Bosnia. The nation was forced into a war-loser complex. And what did you say at the time when you were in power about Kosovo and Metohija? "There's a patriot man, or there's a Quisling. Patriot is the one who's against any foreign interference in our internal affairs. The one who invites strangers to interfere with internal affairs is the Quisling, the traitor, no mercy. We are against Kosovo's autonomy. "You made all these statements and eventually signed the capitulation by introducing the country into such huge conflicts. How are you not ashamed to talk nonsense about this pay phone? Where's your cheek? Do you have it? You obviously don't have one. Well, while you were mixing and selling the country, we fought to throw you out of power, to finally see your back, because everything you touched was ruined.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13406	Here you go, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Vukevic was right when he wrote it in "Kuru" for this Albianic. I can't say it again, but I'm inviting you to read what he said. He reminded him of one part of the body, not the most pleasant part. Now, just for the one thing that's been said here as serious, I have to answer what he's been saying. Such an unfortunate person rarely appears in this congregation. And it's good to have him, to sometimes entertain the MPs of the people. It's good to entertain the public sometimes. But he came out and lied one big thing. I don't want to talk about this nonsense, and you said, "You will take revenge on this or that," but you lied about one thing. He didn't reveal any malfeasance, but he said I had a house in Zemun that I didn't have, and I sued the newspaper for that, and I think it's just being resolved, and there's going to be judicial verdicts in the next few months. Now, let me tell you, so that was a notorious lie. There were no malfeasances anywhere, it was a common edition of "The Earth News" and "The Greater Serbia", a wonderful, real edition, contributed to a successful commercial, and I transferred a lot more money for some TV houses to you today's favorites. I don't know how you didn't find it. Or maybe that didn't bother you. But we put a lot of money into the commercial, and we had huge advertising effects. I think that's what we're doing in the future, wherever we're going to win power, wherever we're going to be running public enterprises like that. Anyway, let me answer one more thing to this thief. You thief, the only thing you know is that you steal, and maybe it's my manners to speak Serbian to you, maybe that's why I'm wrong, but your manners to steal from the beginning to the end are the same and never changed. Well, we're kind of consistent with that, you and I. You steal, and I keep telling you that you're thieves and make sure that it never changes. As for how much you steal and how you steal, you steal big. There's no stealing for a little bit. That's a lot of money. On the Study Committee for Determination of Truth about Electricity, Dinkic said - here, we are now withdrawing money from the Euroaxis Bank because it was established by Kori Udovicki. Since you say that's how Kori Udovicki established it and you'll get that money back, we expected those 20-billion-euro foreign reserves to come to this country. But that money did not come to this country because Radovan Jelasic made a decision again. What's that? If that money didn't come back, that they were still standing so that the godmothers of the mafia, Lazarevic and Hamovic, could spend money along with the thieves from G17 plus. That's the thing. That's the difference. Well, that's enough of the thieving and the crime. And now let me tell you-- that's the job of prosecutors and judges. But these are so clear, the most serious crimes, that you will end up behind bars for justice, for the future of Serbia and for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13408	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13409	So it is clear that it is beneath the honor to answer, because to me, Vukic is not even knee-deep, but I must point to the citizens of Serbia, the blackness in which they ruled, because they unfortunately left only graves behind. That was terrible for the country of Serbia. You killed both the country and the people, and you're not ashamed to talk that kind of nonsense anymore. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13410	I don't mind what Vučićevic called a good name "Veselko", which comes out for this pay phone, doesn't mention a member of the Rules of Procedure or anything, I understand it's in the Rules of Procedure. He's a little upset, I don't mind. As for the graves and who left what, I know that in criminal law, where it's normal for every country to have a grave when you leave anyone, an ex-office, to be officially prosecuted. I don't understand why none of us prosecutors are after anything like that. And where's Seselj? Is that your question? Now, you thieves, and worse than thieves, that's your biggest problem than thieves. Which you're not just, you know, because some thieves take care of the rich and steal from the poor, and you steal from the poor, and you don't have the slightest. Unlike you, you thief, we have cheeks. We've never stolen anyone, fortunately or the graves behind us, and you've left poor, sad and poor Serbia, Serbia that wants to change and Serbia that wants to free itself. Let me tell you something. I'll give you one promise, and that's what we're going to insist on in the election campaign. Serbian citizens want to change, Serbian citizens want to live better, but Serbian citizens, above all, want to deal with corruption and crime, Serbian citizens want to deal with you, they want you who are involved in the worst criminal activities, they want thieves to go to jail, they want thieves behind bars. It's the only thing Serbian citizens want and they know it won't be easy to live. They know there will be thousands of problems, but also Serbian citizens know, in order to live better, we have to deal with corruption and crime. I know that this "Veselko" again for two or three days, when it gets research at 2.2 percent, it's going to look at those who have 35 to 40 percent and think about it -- and that they're so much better than we are. We're better because we're not thieves and because unlike you, we have cheeks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13411	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13412	I'm advertising a breach of Article 100(3). - you are not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor are you allowed to make facts and assessments regarding the private life of other persons. I have to say, there's been a lot of rumors here today -- we're not thieves, we're not thieves, but you're a lot of big thieves. You know, it doesn't offend me at all when a thief tells me I'm a thief, it doesn't insult me at all, it even impotes me. It happened a few months ago that this is where your head of Parliament put me in touch with some kind of cell phone smuggling and some bullshit. Your problem is that you can't find anything that's true to say about us, and whoever boasts so much that he's not a thief, that he's honest, that he cares for the citizens of Serbia, I'm afraid it's the opposite. No more boasting, no more defending yourself against being thieves, and feel free to attack us that we are thieves, for no honest man in this country will believe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13413	As chairman, I owe an explanation for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I tried 30 minutes ago to warn the MPs to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. Of course, the chairman cannot teach the MPs how they will behave, yet it is a matter of themselves and ultimately of the voters who chose them. Replica, MP Mr. Wolfich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13414	I understand that when someone tells this gentleman he's a thief, he doesn't get hit. Which would have struck him, it's his day-to-day work, nothing new to him, and that's what the citizens tell him at every turn, which would have surprised him and that would have bothered him. As for who's defending himself, I didn't hear you accuse us of it, and I'm counting you're the government, I'm counting on you to arrest someone who's a thief. Come on, if you have anyone that's a thief, arrest him. Don't let this "Veselko" out here and don't know what the poor thing's talking about anymore, he's gone, he's left the O.R. But there's no need to do that, but simply use the state instruments, arrest someone, bring him to justice and tell the citizens what someone stole. I'm telling you, not wanting to reevaluate what's going to happen, but I'm confident, since I know that when the state authorities change power, they're going to want to restore citizens' trust in the state's institutions, wanting the citizens to know again that they can, laugh, and they want to count on their country's institutions, then they're going to start dealing with thieves. Then the thieves got screwed. What did you realize was that you guys were screwed, I don't know. But I guess a lot of you and these 50 cars, for the five years you've rented, which, for these 20 billion, is going to fit, 20 billion not dinars, but dollars. People don't know how much it is. People can't dream how much it is. I don't know, it's big numbers for me, it's millions and billions, some dinars, some euros, it doesn't matter to you. But, let me tell you something, this is not an invitation for the citizens of Serbia to deal with you, this is just an indication that the opposition of thieves is not afraid and that opposition to both thieves and those who support thieves at all times will be allowed to say what they think and what they think of them. You can do whatever you want. You can threaten from this pay phone. This "Veselko" can be as nervous as he wants, but it won't scare anyone in the SRS, and you'll always get the answer you deserve. The answer you deserve is that, I'm telling you, come out and tell me where we stole it. I've given you two examples, and I'll bring you ten more in the afternoon. Give an example of where we took or stole something, and from your thief Serbia falls every day, people are going through containers, people are running out of work, and only you are getting richer and richer, only you have more money, so it's no wonder that some ministers are said to weigh a few dozen million dollars. Who they're gonna open to, who they're not gonna open the cigarette factory to. They'll give permission to whom they won't give their licenses. Serbian radicals in this business will not participate, and therefore our most important job and most important task is to rule in a different way in the next term. And before that, of course, we will have to do both you and all those with whom you rule to clean up the political scene, because that is the most important task of the SRS, but also of all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13415	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13416	I must again report to the Rules of Procedure, and also say that I am misread by the gentleman in question. I'd be extremely offended, Mr. Wolfie, if someone called me a thief, but I just didn't tell them to call me a thief, so it wouldn't offend me. No, it's you, and you personally, and you all, that doesn't insult me at all. As for your honesty, let's tell me how many years you haven't paid your phone bills. Is it fair or not, and who gave you the money to pay all of a sudden in the election campaign? Honestly, you probably did all that, and I know a lot of your members who say the following, and they're still saying that -- I'm not gonna pay these taxes, I'm not going to fund them, it's not worth it to me at all. Your members are saying that, so they probably saw and learned it from you. Now tell them, since you've been better or faster in the election campaign, you've paid it all, let them pay a little too, and then let them drill into their chests as fair as they are. And leave these stories for another time, feel free to call me "the thief" one more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13417	The word of the messenger of the people is that of Sredoiah Michael, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13418	Gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, look out for this, Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure. The gentleman who used to speak, calling for his degree in law and likes to talk only about facts and evidence, has no proof of what he was saying. Maybe I should tell him the same thing, but you know how when someone doesn't tell the truth, then you don't tell him that ugly word, but you tell him, you can be; it's as important as telling him that word he says he's not ashamed to say about this pay phone. Let me tell you why he's not exactly like that and why it can be "can be." First and foremost, you've all laid down together with the president of your party under the jeep that the president didn't buy. You know, you either buy a jeep or leave your dad behind, or leave you some uncle. You were lying under a jeep that was, in other words, dead. Your president is a gunman, he pulled guns on students, you forgot everything you did, gentlemen, you pulled guns, guns, and so on, and you explained to people that they slipped seven or eight times on a banana, you understand, these are facts, that's a fact, and you gentlemen have no fact about what you claim. You're driving the people crazy. Let me remind you a little bit what it was like, you gentlemen were involved in stealing votes with a party in power. And you participated, you were with that authority together. You gentlemen, know Miss Jovanovic, you brought our children out in front of the assembly, you did the rallys, you brought our children, our militia on our children, that's what you did, you all know that for those 100 days what was going on. You gentlemen have signed an alliance with Russia and Belarus, and now they are there, and why don't you invite your partners to join them there now. You've done a lot of things. What they said, most importantly, which is the fact that you destroyed this country, destroyed its economy, destroyed its honor, destroyed its youth, destroyed its perspective. You have no idea, you have no visions, and that's exactly the problem where you get all these voices, and that's why we came here to explain to Serbia once that you're big fog dealers, who talk about irrelevant things. Everything you can buy is not expensive. You've destroyed what can't be bought for generations that can't be fixed. I also think, I'm not going to tell you that you're cheating on the public and it's not fair or fair, but to get back to our laws and let us teach you how to do it, so in the next election, to see how you should behave, to figure out how the state should be run, because otherwise what you're doing, it's pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13419	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia are not -- fog dealers, but fog dealers, possibly. But I'm glad Mr. Michaelov couldn't slip in any way, he was holding on to this pay phone, it looks like some other stuff got killed in the buffet. But now I'm not going to talk about it in particular, it wouldn't be right, I'm going to talk about the consistency of G-17 plus, because I said they're really a very consistent party. And you, Mr. Michael, are the image and opportunity of consistency G-17 plus. How many parties have you changed? Four or five, but only in the last seven or eight years. I don't know how you've changed parties before, but in the last few years he's changed four or five times, in this House he's been a member of three parties. In whose name you speak, man of God. This is where you used to say that someone was playing some kids, we were taking part in a voice theft, what voice theft? The party was attended by Zoran Djindjic and Cedomir Jovanovic, we were Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic and I, we received them, we gave them records to see where you won. You don't know anything about it, nobody ever accused us of it, but you don't know what to say anymore. Now I see around this phone that a lot of people have been worried, I haven't paid for it in the campaign at all, but whenever I paid for it or didn't pay for it, I have to answer for it or not answer for it, that's my business. I didn't understand how our members don't pay taxes, I don't know what that means to you, I just see you chasing people for a bagel, closing their stores, harassing them. I see now why Bogdanovic won Belgrade, how this powerful thief's lobby came together, how everyone got along, so they don't have phone problems, especially they don't have cell phones, and you knew that he wasn't thinking about you, but about each other. You knew what was said and talked about here because he was telling the truth. I have not yet heard that a thief is a thief when someone does not pay a bill, whether he will pay or not – his thing; let them persecute him; they will pay him otherwise. It's a big thief when they take people's money, it's a big thief when you pay out of the state's money the cars they use for you, they pay you a commission, it's a big thief. If something is a thief, don't worry, come and arrest us, right now, and hurry with it because your time is running out, and I'm afraid in three months you'll be watching us when we visit you and bring you cigarettes, oranges, apples...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13421	You're out of time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13422	.... to the competent place. I just need to let them know where they are and that we're going to be very collegiate, that we're going to visit, not to worry. We'll make sure you have good treatment, take care of you, and we'll make sure you get that good number, prison number, to be recognizable to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13423	Okay, that's enough. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? If not, we'll move on to Amendment 4, but after a break I've set for an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13424	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, good afternoon. We'll continue this afternoon's session. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. By applying the electronic system, we realized that we had a quorum to work with. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Branislav Rankic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13425	And Mr. Vlahovic has submitted a good amendment, and let's explain what this is about. It's one of the members that's going to be so-called. the transition in the new consolidated text of this law, which stipulates that the provision of Article 1 is the new Article 52a point (1) to (3), and Article 2 of this Act will apply in cases where the decision on the sale of public tender shares has been made before the entry into force of this Act. We come to the point where the government, as a proponent of this law, admits that so far there have been cases that someone could have been through a public tender to trade in actions that these funds, the Action Fund, the Republic Fund PIO, the Republic Development Fund and what you generally call actions owned by the Republic of Serbia. By the logic of things and by what you wrote in the light of this law, why do you need a law like this, why do you need a member like this 52a, you regulate a legal impossible situation here. So only by adopting this law is it possible to sell these actions through a public tender. You admit here that there have been such sales, that in the meantime some decisions have been made to trade these actions through a public tender, you are practically empowering those decisions by saying that they will be implemented in a manner prescribed by this subsequent law. You are obviously aware that actions are not good that could be sold and bought in a similar way as prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, but that it is a paper of value. In this way you're really admitting that you've done this bill in a hurry. And there's a lot of proof of that, and there's a lot of provisions that still have SRJ, and there's some undefined people's bank. You were trying to bring this together, you even have a federal republic somewhere. Look at article 149 of the law and you'll see again that this is for one-time use, until someone finds out that we need a real law on securities of value and the financial market of securities of value. In this way you want to speed up not only your ability, but your authority and the right to exclusively trade these securities of value, in a way that you have forgotten who owns these securities of value and who has it on behalf of the state. The fact that you're calling on funds of a different name, you just need to know that they're users, they manage, but they don't have it. The continuation of this debate follows the second point, where you will see exactly how wrong you are and how unconstitutionally you tried to change all these three areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13426	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13427	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't see why it is necessary to introduce a retroactive institution in Article 4 of this Law. And because of this, it seems that for all of us, for subsequent interpretations and possible suspicions that some decisions have been made earlier, the new legal regime, which is being introduced by these amendments and additions to the Charter Act of Values, is potentially used to cover the decisions already made. I don't think that the parliamentary majority really should, given that there is no decision that has previously been made to apply the provisions of this law and that these 15-20 or a month how much will be spent until the time this law is passed, if the parliamentary majority is established, it won't really mean anything to those who implement and implement these measures, given that in the next month there is a whole series of advances to be made, which these amendments and additions of the Law don't tang, and where it is not enough for those months to be carried out, in order to make a decision on which to apply this Article 4. For this reason, truly well-intentioned, the DS also advises the legislator who does not sit here because the formal legislator of the law is the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Business, but also the parliamentary majority, not to introduce a precedent of retroactiveness for all possible cases, because I really don't see why retroactiveness is being introduced by this member. And on the other hand, I'm not personally satisfied with the general interest in the introduction of the retroactiveity institute, which here is not enough in two sentences of smut given. I am also interested in whether the Legislative Committee has at all had a special debate on the issue of the retroactiveness of the visas of this law, as well as whether the legislator asked for a provision of retroactiveness to be voted in particular. I am speaking from experience, we had in our proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Privatisation of March 2003 a provision that was retroactively applied, where there was a very clear interest, which is that, regardless of the moment they entered the privatisation process, they shared 200 euros per year of work experience. You remember by the original version of the law, the time dynamics of entry dictated the level of value of shared actions. In order for all of us to be in the same position, we have suggested that we include that period of 20 days before the law was passed. There was a clear recognition of the general interest. I really don't see where the general interest in introducing this provision of retroactivity is here. If Celebrity is found at the speed of realisation, or the implementation of this law, I do not see enough reason for this member to be accepted. I see the reason for accepting the amendments, because I repeat once again, for at least a month, it will be necessary to carry out preparatory actions in order to make a decision at all on the sale of actions outside the stock market, by tender, and in a month, it is up to you, depending on the efficiency of this Parliament's work, whether this law will be passed. Therefore, I strongly recommend that this amendment be adopted, i.e. to delete this Article 4 of the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13428	Anyone else on this amendment? Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13429	To read, for the sake of the public, what does this member who suspends Article 52a or retroactivity refer to. In Article 52 of the Law, it is said: "The securities of value can only be traded with a public offering on an organised market unless this law is specified otherwise. Not so far. ) On an organised market, securities of value can only be traded by brokerage companies and authorised banks, stock exchange members, and other persons only through stock exchange members". Now, the proposed changes and additions to this retroactively apply to some decisions already made on the sale of securities from the value of these institutions that are state-owned. I'm not surprised even if you've already made the sale, I'm not surprised that the changes and the additions to the law are not technically well done. It's true that the Ministry of Finance is behind this. As the chairman said, the Commission for Securities of Values took part in the draft of this law. It is true that the president of this committee, Mr. Stimac, who until a few months ago was an MP in this assembly, was in the G17 Parliament Club, so that no more of you can surprise me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13430	The notice didn't apply to this law. I said "to prepare these two laws." Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13431	I don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. Predrag Bubalo, from the scene: "Accepted." )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13432	The government has accepted the amendment. So I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Dr Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Business, want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13433	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was indeed one of the first to criticise the Charter of Values. It's really hard when something's not right to fix it with one or two or three members. I think a lot of discussions were principled. Why did I personally define myself to accept the Ministry of Finance's initiative to try to improve this? Just because we have a hard deal, and already the drafts of a value charter law have emerged, that this area will be much more quality and comprehensively arranged, in an appropriate way, as it corresponds to the degree of development of the securities market in this country. The intervention is so much that we had in practice a discrepancy with the Privatisation Act, with the Action Fund Act and with what we had in practice. The privatisation law provides for methods for selling state and social capital. It's a tender and it's a stock market. Also, the Charter Act of Values provided for a stock exchange and takeover. There's already one discrepancy. Now we're going to coordinate that all three of these methods have their place. I definitely argue that the wealth of the method can't hurt, and in practice it needs to use the tender at some point, because only using the takeover can often happen, it seems to me, and done at some point, that there is not even a satisfactory price, and I'm not saying that there is no investment obligation and that a social programme is applied. We have cases, we have such firms where it really matters less how much money we get, although the price is always important, but it's always important to invest, to get to a strategic partner. If it's just a takeover or if it's just a stock market, it can't be affected by being a strategic partner. I'm willing to make a list of what's left of this congregation, and I'm willing to submit to the company, possibly, what was the pledge, where that would be considered. So, to limit myself, it's really not my goal to have the right to volunteer, to choose, but simply to protect social interests and goals. I wouldn't do much about this all that was specific about words. For all that it took, there is a legal basis. I'm saying, you can't change something that's poorly set to radically, but we can improve it in a short time, give you the opportunity to use the tender method, take over and trade on the stock market. Trading on the stock market was and remains as a priority. The tender and takeover is for a number of cases. In the end, let me just say about what was the most story, about retroactiveness. I claim that this is not about retroactive application of the norm, but it is about laying down the rules applicable in the event that the decision on the method of sale has been made until the date of entry into force of this law, which means that these amendments can also be applied, and may be applied under the old law, when a process is started. For the sake of full explanation, such formulations are often used for transitional and final provisions, and that is to say, I would like to remind myself of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, as of 28 February 2003, where Article 24 says: "The procedure for selling capital, i.e. assets, which is not completed until the date of entry into force of this law, will continue according to the rules which were in force at the time of publication of the public call for participation in a public tender, i.e. public auction". It's just been used here. I don't think there's a story about the retroactivity of the norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13434	Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, and since the minister had the final word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending law and additions to the Act on Action Fund (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Nemanja Sarović, Jovan Palalić, Goran Cvetanović, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Sulejman Spaho, Bozidar Koprivica, Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Boris Karaičić. You have received a report from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13435	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Action Fund, which is required to be Article 2. The bill, which should be Article 8a of the law, deletes. Why? Because this member, i.e. the bill, has been determined that the minister determines how to vote in the Action Fund. The first is said that actions have been transferred to the Action Fund of a simple action, and then it is taxed in which cases the voting right is used by the Action Fund and ultimately said in the fourth position that the way the vote is exercised, i.e. the statement of the Action Fund on the basis of the transferred actions referred to in Article 1 of this article is determined by the minister. An existing legal solution (Article 11. The Act on the Action Fund) – that the Action Fund does not exercise the right to manage the transferred actions, as they say and in an explanation, has led to a series of problems and even to the provision of government capital. In view of the fact that the Action Fund is the largest individual shareholder in about 400 companies and a majority shareholder in about 30 companies, it is clear that if this member is adopted, then the Minister of Privatisation will be given a simple mandate and that it will directly determine in all these companies whether and how it will be voted, in which way it will be voted, and I remind you that it is extremely important issues, the reorganisation of businesses, the taking of credit, the granting of years of leases and so on. Because of all this, and given what previous ministers have been to us, I don't think such powers should be given to any individual. Now I speak in principle. It is neither the minister of the past nor the current minister. We from the SRS, as always, have principled attitudes. We think that the government of individuals should be reduced, not increased beyond every measure. That's why I urge you once again to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13436	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13437	What I'm sure of is that the legislator of this law had in mind and the fact that we still have the Company Act and that this law applies to the provisions of Articles 392 to 399, 400a, 400b, 440v and 421a. In Article 398a of the Company Act, it is said: a company operating in majority social capital cannot, without the prior consent of the Agency of the Republic of Republics responsible for privatisation operations, make decisions. Now we will move on to the proposal of your law, here it says - the right to vote based on the action referred to in Article 1 of the Action Fund uses explicitly in the following cases: reduction or increase in capital, and that is what is written in the Company Act; and all that is written here from 1) to 9) is contained in Article 398a, where it is said about a social enterprise with majority social capital. That capital is divided into shares. What's problematic here, is that you're saying that the right to vote based on the actions that came into the stock fund, the Action Fund is benefiting. Now there's a problem, which includes the right to vote. Whether only these statements (1) to 9) and how it comes to its statement of will and vote of the Action Fund. Independently, independently, without any influence from the ministries or government? The action fund, which has in its hands actions based on privatisations belonging to the Action Fund, was given the right to vote in that legal person. How does he form his will when voting? Who's influencing? The difference in percentages is the stock received by the Action Fund. See what you stated in attitude 3: Stock companies are obliged to obtain a written statement from the Action Fund (What is a written statement? The company, which has in its bodies a representative of the voting Action Fund, which exercise the right to vote, and now needs to request a written statement from the Action Fund because it does not trust a representative of the Action Fund. ) in the cases referred to in Article 2(2). And then in the fourth position, he says, "Decisions make the opposite of the attitude of this third member are nothing. "So the decisions of the shareholder body, of the stock company, if they are not based, or unless a written statement is provided, they are nothing, they do not exist. That's impossible. What percentage is that, those actions that the Action Fund has in the stock society, so that it can gain that exclusive right. Finally, something that cannot stand must not stand, the ministers must not stand: "A way to exercise the right to vote, i.e. to declare the Action Fund on the basis of the actions transferred under Article 1 of this article, is prescribed by the minister responsible for privatisation operations. "The way to exercise voice rights can only be regulated by law. He can't do it under the law. Only the Government, but not the minister, can be passed on to an explicit legal provision. I must warn you, there is a Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, there is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is a Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, and there are a dozen other regulations that regulate state property. In all these regulations on behalf of the state, on behalf of that property, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has stepped forward. She trusts some other organs, but it's just things that concern management and use, but not the availability. In the principle debate, we drew your attention, this bill is unconstitutional to you, because it exceeds the powers we can give to the executive authority. You put everything and everything in here. With the right to vote on behalf of state property, they appear as hybrid appearances of the ministry, the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, the Government, and perhaps some other resolution ministry and the Ministry of Finance, and now you have a situation, whatever the problem is in some state-owned enterprise, the finance ministry reported. Here, a strike at JAT, the finance ministry determines whether it is legal or not; banks, again the finance ministry reports. Wherever the state's participation, the property of a state in a legal entity occurs, the finance ministry reports. No, only the Government of the Republic of Serbia can.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13438	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Nemanja Sarovic has proposed deleting a new member of the 8th. Not only does it say in the explanation that it is unacceptable for the minister to give instructions in each particular case that someone will exercise the right to vote, i.e. the way in which the Action Fund is declared, why is it so explicit in paragraph 3, and that it refers to item 2, of course and in point 4, it is written that if the company wants to increase capital and if the Action Fund is in minority with actions, (can you prescribe) that the company is required to seek the opinion of the Action Fund. Whether the majority owner, who has 51% share, should ask the Action Fund. You say - yes, because it's a zero decision he made if he didn't ask the Action Fund. That sounds illogical to me. Find me a owner who has 51% or 51.1% of shares that depends on the opinion of the one who has 49% of the shares. It's not there. That's not the way he's gonna show up. That's not gonna be the customer. He's still going after the minister. That means, Mr. Minister, if you don't let the capital increase in some stock company, there won't be an increase in capital. He's not coming. Read what you wrote. Well, don't, I'm talking about the bill. Now I'm talking about the amendment. I don't care if your majority, I think that MP Pavlovic wrote and the amendment, I know all that, but I'm directing you in your way of thinking. Do not depend on whether an MP will submit an amendment, so it depends on the MP teaching us with the amendment what the government needs to write. What you wrote in the bill is terrible. It's a complete stop to privatisation. It's, then, affecting all the entities that are privatized. If the minister, I'm only talking about raising capital, it's nine provisions, settling, taking credit, it's all for business, then what's the property property for if it depends solely on the will of the minister, not the Action Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13440	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radmilo Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13441	No, I won't support the amendment. Amendments to the Act on the Action Fund were also supported by MPs to the Privatisation Committee. It doesn't apply here if a privateer bought 51% of the capital, then the opinion could be to the Agency and vice versa, but he has majority capital and he'll decide what he wants. But if 42% of state capital doesn't have management, whoever buys 29% has over 51% of management, because those 40% don't have the right to manage. The other thing is the Venice, and that's what I want to talk to you about, Natasha. The wedding was not supported, the buyer of Venčac, your MPs in the Privatisation Committee, did not support it. The late Ostora asked me how I could have been friends with such a man. The buyer of the Venice is my friend, but I never supported him because he didn't respect anything. He didn't respect anything. You've been talking about the Book affair all day today. Please state what this affair is, Knjiz. I know that 17% of the book shareholders couldn't get into the Knjiza Assembly because the director organized his people, beat out the representatives of 17% of the capital and expelled them. Former director of the Book. He died. No, I'm not ashamed. That was when he was alive. He was alive. Have you ever stood up to ask those shareholders for their rights? If he had had the Action Fund then, they would have given their opinion by 40%. The other thing is -- director of Knjaza, here's former Minister Vlahovic, we know the problems, they always wanted the capitalization and they didn't give the prospectus to take action to the market. What is the capitalisation if I only have some accounting value of 100 marks or 3,000 per share. And now the Book's stock has been sold for 23,000. If someone had had capitalized before, he would have capitalized with 3,000. Please, I really don't mind anyone's attitude, but I'm just asking you, when you say an affair, say which one. Who's been hit? Are the small shareholders? Were the small shareholders deceived in the Book? Was the state deceived in the Book? (Glass: Back to the amendment. Well, you're telling the whole story. You come out for one amendment, Mr. Krassic, you're a lawyer, I'm not, and for one amendment, you point all that out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13442	Please don't flaunt. Just keep going. I thank the People's MP. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, and then by Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13443	I find it very incorrect that Mr. MP slept through the story of the Prince Milos, so now he remembered. You may have just arrived from the restaurant, Mr. Milosevic, but you've quoted dead people twice. They told you something in the trust of the people who are now dead. What kind of way is that? You were complained by an MP, the late MP of the SRS. He was complaining to you. To you? And you have a good relationship with the Serbian Radical Party. If it wasn't for you in Arangelovac, you're the only one who's guilty of the fact that in Arangelovec the situation can't move from scratch, because you're sore at defeating the election for the president of the municipality. And now you're telling me what the late director of the Book of Milos was doing. So, who raised that factory? You're not ashamed to accuse a dead man. What did you do for those four years when you ruled in Arangelovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13444	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13445	Since I was mentioned in the discussion of the previous speaker, Mr Radmil Milosevic, it is because of the public that we remember these events that relate not to this latest offer for the public takeover of Knjiz Miloš, but to what happened a year earlier. And it seems to me that ten days ago we were just talking about political principle, the consistency that every national representative here in this House, if he really cares about the interests of the people and the state, needs to show maximum. Let's see what principledness looked like. You are absolutely right, Mr Milosevic, that it was a constant obstruction in an attempt to form a majority package in accordance with the Action Fund Act. I was then a minister at the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, and I know that the obstruction just came from not only the late director, but from management in general, and it is not only in the company but also in many other companies, which are privatized under the 1997 law. It's actually an attempt, instead of shareholders controlling management, to reverse management, to control shareholders. As far as I'm concerned, and then today they're legitimate management aspirations. You have this in other major global companies, the tendency to management control shareholders, but what I don't understand is the fact that today's parties, political parties in position or in power, are completely changing "plate" compared to a year and a half ago. I'll remind you, and you can also see on some political parties' websites, that there were so many integrations in September 2003 to prove that Knjaz Milos is the best financial partner. It was just the G17 Plus party, specifically Mr. Labus, that a year later would completely change its mind and say "Knjiz Milos" is the worst solution to the financial partner. She's the best strategic partner. So much for political consistency. Similar criticisms came from all the other political parties that were then sitting in opposition, and now I ask you, and I ask you not for myself, I ask you for the public, are we here to really protect the interests of the state and really be true representatives of the people, taking care primarily of the improvement of the state, or are we here to raise the popularity of our political party with a series of dirty political tricks. So raised popularity is short term. Here, I'm telling you today, as I've always said, for "Knjiz Milos" the best solution would be a strategic partner, regardless of what may be done today by DS, if it's viewed in a tighter way, it doesn't answer, it doesn't matter. A strategic partner is the best solution for all major companies, including "Knjiz Milos". We'll never change our mind, because it's based on professional arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13446	First Zoran Krasic and then Radmilo Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13447	On my point that what Mr. Milosevic was saying had nothing to do with the amendment, he commented that we were giving some lectures here. I was right to intervene. You're the one who got two ideas wrong. What's this about? This amendment refers to a member who treats the situation when the Action Fund has already taken possession of actions. You used a familiar example of "Knjiza Miloš" when privatisation was not done, but rather a transfer of actions was made. In fact, it's probably privatization for what the state had in its possession, but what the small shareholders had, it just changed the owner. In that sense, I warned you not to stick to the subject. You went out to talk about the amendment, and you're talking about something that doesn't touch the amendment at all, not even this member. I just started reading and making a parallel between the provisions of the Company Act and this law. You can see that everything is identical. This provision of the Company Act speaks of majority social property, and here it speaks of the right based on the ownership of shares held by the Action Fund, but the rights are the same as they are for social enterprises. Here it is said - the Agency of the Republic of Croatia for Privatisation Affairs, it is the Privatisation Agency, and here it says the Action Fund. It's not a privatisation agency. I've told you about this amendment to show what this controlled chaos looks like, the confusion of the rules about "Knjiza Miloš" and the fate of the actions that are in the Action Fund and the possibility of selling. We had agenda number one, something's changed. You'll see from the next article and the next amendment that maybe it shouldn't have changed. We can't legally fix morale. If there are problems with the financial stock market, solve them there, don't interfere with these laws. That the laws are adapted to a historic moment when something can be rocked, to end, to cast great dust and noise, which is why we endure amendments and say, "give the principle." If you have a principle, take it all the way to the end, until the end of the season, but not here. From topic to topic, rules change, regulations change, can be retroactively, can be unconstitutional, the minister can be above the National Assembly, the government can also be above the National Assembly, the government can say whether it will apply a member of the law or not. As soon as you write a member in one law that the government decides whether to apply the law, what the law will do to us then. Run that late revolutionary justice of yours. Snooze, sell, but don't harass us, and it's all professional. How can that be expert?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13448	Ambassador Radmilo Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13449	We've all known since 1990 that privatisation can't be fair or fair. One thing, these laws will take another short time. You claim the privatisation that was carried out during the previous period was mob, criminal and theft. We tried to correct something, to improve it, and we are aware that changing the whole concept would be some fifth law that would no longer have any purpose. Something to try and change. It is true that there is no law that can be written that someone who is extremely cunning, not to say a criminal or I don't know what, or one of the services that apply that law, doesn't find a hole and make a mess. I'm not saying for a moment that this is perfect and extraordinary, but the same way I supported Mr. Vlahovic's law and I now support this, because it's going to make something better. The other thing, one of the people I mentioned was very fond of me. He didn't ask me for advice, he criticized me. That's Mr. Ostora. Mr. Nikolic said -- well, now he's asking you for advice. He didn't ask me for advice, he criticized me. Then, Mr. Director of the Book was constantly obstructing the completion of the privatisation of the Book, and that's clear. I don't have any political interest. As for the question of what I did in "The Book," I did in "The Book." When I was there in maintenance, on four old lines we produced 156 million units. There are 20 new lines today. It is given over a million euros a year for foreigners to come and fix it and produce 220 million. In 1987, I came back from the Colubary, where I had four times my salary, to help the Book, and I didn't take action in the Book. You can ask all the employees of the Book. I have no personal interest in the Book. Nor did I participate in this campaign to cheer for someone. The only thing I did on TV, and he was Mr. Stimac, we told the small shareholders that they were their actions and their right to rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13450	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Prime Minister and the Privatisation Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The Prime Minister and the Privatisation Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, in the opening statement, in the plenary debate, we have explained why we believe that Article 2 of this law must be reduced and more precisely defined. Now I'm not gonna repeat the reasons for that. I simply want to say that the task of the state in the transition period is to withdraw from the economy, not to re-enter it. This means that all places should be avoided by any new legal act that could potentially pose a risk for the state to play a more active role in the economy. This is the essence and purpose of an economic transition which, unfortunately, many people do not understand, believing that, according to that old good system, the state should be an active player and an allocator of resources. In any case, there is an indirect danger in Article 2 that the Action Fund, not only plays a much more important role in making decisions in privatised companies in 1997, but rather what is even worse, that the Action Fund is a political instrument for political cadation, something similar that happens in many public enterprises today, and then as an epilogue, we know very well what we have in the end. As an epilogue, we have ruined companies, ruined economic financial performances, and as an epilogue, we have not a strong economic advance, but rather a reverse economy. It would therefore be good to amend this Article by amending the amendment proposed by the DS by defining which decisions the Action Fund is interested in, or which strategic decisions the Action Fund must be asked about. I agree that the Action Fund must be questioned, in order to avoid a passive position which, combined with a very harmful Securities Act, was brought on a federal level in 2003, and it was forgotten that it was not the law on which this assembly was discussed, meant a fully passive role of the Action Fund. I therefore propose that the right to vote on the basis of actions of the Action Fund is achieved solely in those cases and that the way in which voting rights are exercised is defined in accordance with the Business Society Act. In this way, with these small changes, the possibility will be avoided, since the silence of the administration under the Administrative Procedure Act means a negative and no more positive response, that the Action Fund only has one or two percent can block many decisions; it will avoid the unpleasant possibility that the Action Fund, because the Minister has changed, has changed the composition of the ministry, can at one point be politically abused to deploy important political personnel into already privatised enterprises, into boards, and this is also about many quality businesses. The possibility of a double interpretation will be avoided. Why do we consider this amendment to be superior to the amendment that the Government has already adopted; therefore, because further in the text of the Action Fund Act, in Article 11 of the existing law, two positions have been deleted. One position, which says: "The action fund will not use the right to manage on the basis of the actions that have been passed on to it"; that was written in the old law; we believe that the next amendment we have proposed is the point put in place and said - except in the situation as defined by Article 2. So, you have two options, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you want to be consistent: to accept the two amendments that the DS has submitted, in a way that absolutely avoids any danger of abuse of the Action Fund; or, which is worse, but still a good variant, to accept the amendment given by my esteemed colleague Mr Palalic. But also later, you accept the amendment that the DS has given, because in this way, it effectively closes the possibility of potential accidental or intentional abuse of the Action Fund and the fact that it today and has a large percentage of ownership in many businesses. It would be the most important institution in this country, more important than the EPS, of the NIS, because the Action Fund, one institution, would probably have an average of 20% of the total capital in the entire economy. And you can imagine how this could be from politically irresponsible, inconsistencies to being abused, so from those who have no biography, who have nothing but politics, and such, ladies and gentlemen, is very much on the political scene. I suggest that the amendments be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13452	The word is Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13453	I would like to comment on this amendment and this article, because it is central to amendments and additions to the Action Fund Act, so I assume that in further discussion we will not return to these questions and we will only save time. So it's not about any kind of country that wants to take care of what isn't hers, but it's an absurd situation that the state hasn't even wondered about what belonged to her. We had a bad relationship, where we didn't ask ourselves, the state as the owner of a number of actions. So the state is just going to ask about the number of actions it has, no matter what the final decision will be. In every middle, 60% of the owners, small shareholders, will make a decision, will not be made by the state. Sometimes these two decisions will go to each other, sometimes they will be different, and most of the votes, or most of the shareholders will make a decision. Written consent is sought for the simple reason that the state does not intend to hold its representatives in the congregations and boards of directors, and that is the only reason why a decision is sought. Otherwise, by accepting Mr. Palalic's amendments, he was accepted in fact, although he was rejected, but the amendment of Mr. Vlahovic was accepted in fact, because in the first text he wrote specifically, so there are nine cases, and in this new amended text, six cases were explicitly listed. So, in an explicit way, and just that, and nothing else, it's a legal-technical editorial. If it's so important that we say it, and it's explicit, I don't mind it, but I think that this is really how the text is improved compared to what was proposed by the promoter, i.e. from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13454	Does anyone else want a word? (No). Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been sent by the people, Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund, therefore, to delete the text of "actions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article are sold on the public auction and off-market market by accepting bids for takeover, in accordance with the law governing the securities market and by public auctions, except for actions for which the Ministry of Privatisation has decided to record them in the Privatised Register", as well as "actions sold by the Action Fund on the Financial Exchange or off-market give the right to vote on the purchaser of those actions. "The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment, and in its explanation it has not been accepted because the bill complies with the Act on the Action Fund with the Law on the Market of Securities and other financial instruments and removes the collapsing of these laws that did not sell shares from the Action Fund portfolio in the first six months of 2004 as well as revenues in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the PIO Fund to employees. The Action Fund is also given a proactive role in the sale of shares and the completion of privatisation during the armed period. I have already asked the minister in principle to accept some amendments to the SRS, so that the law would be much more quality, because, indeed, from the point of view of the SRS, it is unacceptable to sell charters of value issued by the Republic or by one of its authorities outside the stock market. The new legislative proposal increases the possibility of abuse, as well as the monopoly on charters of values issued by the Republic or by a republican authority. And to prevent it from working, to reduce the possibility of abuse, I suggest the minister accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13456	I thank Mr. Cvetanović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13457	It's very dangerous when a former and current minister agrees on a member. You'll see that first step. Since it is now an amendment to Article 3 and concerns Article 9 of the Law, you have inserted a new position 3 and a new position 7, paragraph 5, you have changed. During this intervention, you've forgotten only one thing. You said that the Privatisation Agency is organising an action or share process under Article 8 of this Act. These are practically all those actions that the Action Fund has to come up with. This order referred to in Article 2 which gives the Agency of the Action Fund to conclude a sales contract should probably replace the conclusion normally reached on the stock market after the trade is completed, but what you are changing in paragraph 3, that is, if the shares are sold on the stock market, then it is done by public auction, and out of the stock market only by taking over, of course in accordance with the Securities Act, and if it is the trade of shares in the portfolio of the Action Fund, then the public auction, except for these other ones for which the Ministry provides that they should be recorded in the Privatisation Register. Now goes what's a big distraction. In this fourth position, I am talking about the consolidated text of this article when this is installed, "exceptionally from Article 3, if the Agency makes a decision, actions, or shares can also be sold through a public offering or a public tender. "All that was in the first item of the agenda is already contained in this law, and that is precisely in this Article 9th paragraph 4, with the difference that you are here, and when it comes to auction sales, you are putting in the Privatisation Agency, and you are even giving the possibility that minority shareholders with the Action Fund will also be able to build a package, thus allowing it to be not a takeover process, but through a public tender, the actions of defined owners, natural persons, are also sold. That's impossible. It doesn't matter if it's voluntary or not voluntary. It's just like when you say - who's to blame, he volunteered to go to a whorehouse. That's what you're talking about. What does volunteering mean? In a lawless volunteering as a liberating factor, it's not like it's your reason. Further what is said: "The action fund in the sale process respects the principles of public and non-discrimination", it can somehow be accepted; and then, you say in the end -- "actions sold by the Action Fund on the financial stock market or off-market give the buyer the right to vote. "It couldn't have been otherwise, because the question would then be why someone buys action if they didn't get the right to vote. What do you promote with this change contained in Article 3? You're practically ingesting chaos. Here, the Action Fund, according to the previous member, appears as someone who has state actions, and the Privatisation Agency appears as a place – I give you what it says in the first position of this member - where the sale process is organised. Then you have in point 4. - sell through a public offering and through a public tender. Here practically the Privatisation Agency becomes a market. The privatisation agency can only be involved in the process of privatising a social-legal person or that social capital, but there is no more social capital here. You of the Privatisation Agency are making a securities market of value because the Action Fund sells securities of value and interest. It's only possible on the financial stock market. That's what this is about. You completely unnecessarily insert a new market in the form of the Privatisation Agency, and it cannot get that authority, especially this attitude where it is allowed by small shareholders, Pera, Mika, Djoka, etc. join their actions to the Action Fund and sell to the Privatisation Agency. Did you take care of what you changed in law? (President: Mr. Krassic... This can't happen to you, and all those who go before the Constitutional Court will certainly take this down, because you are introducing a quasi-market. You're making a new stock exchange out of the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13458	I thank Mr. Krasic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally this amendment that we have proposed to Article 3, which is that Section 3 and Section 4 are deleted. It seems to sound like a technical editorial of an existing member. However, it was not the applicant's intensity. What it's really about. The position of the 3rd member made it very clear that the existing Act on the Action Fund after the word "sale" is replaced by a point, and the words "for the sale of the majority package" are deleted. We don't think that's good. What's this about? The intensity of this article is that the Action Fund, together with minority shareholders, forms a respectable majority package for the sale of this package in accordance with the methods defined in other members of this law, and everything is already in line with the amended Securities Act. However, we believe that this action of the state only makes sense if a majority package of actions is sold, that there is no effect if the state enters the package pooling and does not form a majority package. As you know, the interest of the state is not only the income of privatisation, but the interest of the state is also a respectable investment programme, a respectable investor, a social programme for employees of enterprises where privatisation continues in this case. All these restrictions or qualification criteria, or requirements set before an investor - a potential buyer, are possible only if you provide the investor with a majority management right, or if you sell more than 50% of the capital. Therefore, I see no reason why the state would enter into the formation of an action package that does not provide a majority share of capital, so 50% plus one share, precisely because these other objectives, for which only the state is interested, cannot be achieved by selling minority capital. That is why we propose that these words "for the sake of selling majority capital", which exist in the existing Act on the Action Fund, by accepting this amendment, be returned, in other words, to the existing solution being in this special position, to remain, because it is, in Karajukrai, more economically celebular and socially justified. As for the second part of the amendment, we have proposed that Article 3 be deleted. The 4th position refers to a comment, where actions sold by the Action Fund on the financial stock market or off-market give the buyer the right to vote. That's understood. That's how it's been so far. And so far, by buying shares from the Action Fund, it's the one who bought the vote at the same time. However, the amendment should again be seen as a whole, not as an individual, torn part. If you compare this or observe it together with the previous amendment, and with the amendment that will come, where it strictly defines which part of the management rights of the Action Fund has, in which part, which decisions, I think it is clear why we are proposing this amendment, because it is understood that I am selling shares from the Action Fund by the buyer of these actions and the right to manage. After all, it's defined by other laws. That is why we propose, above all because of the first position of this amendment, that this amendment be accepted by the promoter. Finally, Mr. Minister, you're going to have a problem, because you're going to have to accumulate packages below 50%, which is absolutely economical.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13460	Alexander Vlahovic's amendment has been accepted, so it becomes an integral part of the law. The government has accepted the amendment, but will vote on it since the committees have not accepted. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13461	Article 4 The bill refers to a new Article 9a, which reads: "A deal on the sale of shares, i.e. the share is considered concluded when it is signed by the Action Fund, the Privatisation Agency and the customer, except for the sale of shares on the financial stock market. "Now you can see exactly what I was telling you earlier. You're treating the Privatisation Agency as a market when it comes to a trade that goes through them. How is it possible to find a Privatisation Agency on the side of a seller or a sales witness? The privatisation agency is a state institution that conducts the privatisation process, conducts a tender and auction procedure and controls whether it is legally implemented, determines who is the buyer, who has achieved the best price etc. You now do not know what importance you are giving to the Privatisation Agency in this Article 9a. Is she a sales assistant - the Action Fund, is that the trader someone traded through and what is the purpose of the Privatisation Agency in Article 9a at all? I just told you that the Agency's mandate in Article 9(2), where you say "the Action Fund is selling shares on the basis of the Agency's orders," is here given in terms of the conclusion given on the stock market that the trade is over. You took the stock exchange's conclusion here as a warrant from the Agency, and you made a classic state stock exchange out of the Agency. That can't possibly go away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13462	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go. The government also accepted the amendment of Dragoljub Stamenkovic, which Mr Krasic explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13463	This is a technical amendment, and I believe the minister will accept it, especially since Mr Palalic's amendment to Article 2 has already been accepted. In fact, it is a member of the law which is deleted in the existing law of Articles 2 and 3. What is deleted: "The action fund will not use the right to manage on the basis of the actions that have been transferred to it". We have proposed an amendment adding "except in the cases set out in Article 8a of the Law". I think it's a more complete solution. It is said that the Action Fund will not benefit from the right to manage, except in cases defined by another member of the law, which is Mr Palalic's amendment, which has been accepted. I don't think there's any slow. This is absolutely every dilemma about how to manage, the amount of management of the Action Fund, is simply resolved and does not exist. It is clearly stated here that the Action Fund does not have the right to manage, except in the case referred to in Article 8a. End of story, done deal. As far as this second one is concerned, I really don't understand, Mr. Minister, why are you giving up the dividends that the Action Fund is supposed to take as the owner of the stock in some company? That'll be good for you to finance the stock fund's work. In the end, you will finance the tender sales, finance all of that togethering of the stock packages. There are no other assets of the Action Fund except for what the Ministry of Finance's budget transfers to the Action Fund. It is very well known to me that the amount carried over by the budget is very small, far less than previously planned and that, among other things, the reason why the pace of privatisation in 2004 is significantly slowed down. So I suggest you take back what you've been through, I suppose, to take back, which is that the Action Fund charges the dividend on the basis of the actions that have been transferred to it and that you use that amount of money, which is not big. To be clear, this isn't about super-successful companies, but it's part of the money you're going to use to fund the Action Fund. I therefore believe that this is a technical amendment, that there is no need to explain for a long time, and I expect that this DS amendment will also be adopted. (Predrag Bubalo: I don't know how many options there are for technical editorials. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13464	Here's the problem whether it's technically erased or not, i.e. Position 2 and 3. I suggest the next thing, before the next session, during tomorrow, the President of the Assembly during the follow-up of the third item of the agenda, because obviously we will not move to the third item of the agenda, the Legislative Committee is considering this second position and whether this can be an integral part of the amendment. If the Legislative Committee accepted, that would be the vote. Unless he accepts, of course, he wouldn't. This first part I realized was being accepted. Mr. Vlahovic's amendment is accepted. National MP Boris Karaicic submitted an amendment to article 6 proposing the addition of a new member of 11a. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7(3). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Action Fund. My proposal is to delete Article 7 paragraph 3 of the law, for the reason that it does not leave the right of the competent minister to determine the amount of commission costs in the privatisation process. In fact, you all know that there have been many abuses and irregularities in the present privatisation of all phases of selling social and state capital. The SRS believes that the real cost issue of the commission is very serious and important, so I believe that this issue of the commission should be resolved by law and not left at the will of any individual, even if he is a minister. We, Serbian radicals, respect the laws and believe in them, so I propose this amendment, and you gentlemen MPs accept it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13466	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13467	This intervention, or Article 7. The bill, you practically put something in article 25 that doesn't belong to that member. You will agree that Article 25(1), (2), (3) and (4) says that the Action Fund acquires funds for its operations. Then, as from the clear sky, you have inserted a new chapter 2 and 3 that says that companies whose actions have been transferred to the Action Fund are obliged to, at the request of the Action Fund within seven days of the date of receipt, require delivery of a prospectus to the financial stock exchange, etc. It's these two things that have nothing to do with it. This third, so dibidus has nothing to do with this one. We're not in charge of making things right. What is particularly worrying is not clear at all what is in point 3. You're saying the amount of commission from point 1 of point 1 of the law; I guess some member, not the law. What law? Just to remind you, you've been erasing something that says, the amount of commission fees from item 1 of this article. You messed up here. I don't know what it is. You speak here in this intervention of yours, you speak and you think probably of the expenses and commissions incurred by the sale of shares, I assume the Ministers are referring to it. It is likely to refer to point 1. He can't hear me. Okay. I have to draw your attention, you're here to give the minister the opportunity to prescribe expenses and commissions incurred by selling the shares. And you know yourself that you've expanded the forms and ways of selling shares in the stock fund portfolio, so you said, the financial stock market, it has its own price list, so you said by calling, or by transferring shares through the securities commission, so you introduced a public tender, so you introduced good ones. I don't know how this turbo-minister could see all this, especially that part about the cost of the financial stock exchange. I would recommend that you accept this so that people don't laugh, but by some sublaw, regulate it at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13468	I thank Mr. Krasic. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13469	In the case of this member of the law, an attempt to sell shares from the Action Fund is essentially equal to the sale of the capital of the social enterprise, so that the revenues from privatisation are subsequently allocated in the same way. I think it's very wrong because there's a huge difference between the type, the type of capital. In the first case, it is social capital, in the second case it is state capital. It's perfectly logical that when you sell state property, and capital is property, even though net assets, all income has to go to state funds. In no way should it be deployed as defined by Article 61. The Privatisation Act for the sale of social capital. If the intensity of the one proposing these changes is that maybe local self-government and territorial administration or autonomy, and then the restitution needs are still being met here, then I'm asking the question, what about the money that shareholders, insiders, those from the company, authorized shareholders, were paying off when buying shares with a six-year discount, according to the 1997 Law. What about those revenues? Whether or not this should be arranged in accordance with the Privatisation Act, Article 61, because it makes sense to do things. That's the result of the privatisation. Then we enter a historical galanithia in which we should define, and which part of the privatisation revenue should go to someone in accordance with the law, Article 61. I really think that one declared principle – which each serious government is holding to the maximum and consistently if it wants to contribute to budgetary stability in the short and medium term, and that structural adjustment of the economy allows conditions for the long-term self-sustainability of the economy – must not distort, and that is the principle of unity of the budget. If you accept this member of the law, if in this case the privatisation income schedule is aligned not with the Action Fund Act, not recognising that this is state capital, not social capital, I'm afraid we'll have a problem with sustainability of the budget. And I'll remind you, at the Action Fund, in state property, don't forget, it's not about social property but about state property, there's also a large number of attractive companies, whose sales and realisation of privatisation revenues can be used through the budget as a strong support for restructuring large public enterprises, and above all in the work that the Transition Fund does. I suggest, indeed well-intentioned, that you accept this amendment and that you do not distribute funds obtained from the sale of state capital in the same way as the distribution of funds obtained from the sale of social capital. There it is justified to use a different distribution of funds. It really isn't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13470	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13471	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9. The draft law amending and supplementing the Action Fund Act states that after Article 26, a member who reads: "The responsible person of a company who does not comply with the request of the Action Fund under Article 11a of this Act will be sentenced by a prison of three months to five years and by a fine of up to 800,000 dinars. "This is a crime. We of the SRS believe that the crime scene is a crime scene in Criminal Law and that we should go towards one codified criminal law, that all the crimes in all the laws so far are systematized into one law, and we do not think it is good that even in these laws, which are now being passed, let new crimes be formed and prescribed. What the Government says is why it does not accept this amendment; it says - the amendment is not accepted because Article 9. The bill prevents the abuse of individuals and company managements in relation to the Action Fund, especially in relation to minority shareholders, as the lack of the prospectus of the stock exchanges and the failure of the listing agreement prevents the sale of shares in the privatisation process that is provided. Well, nobody said, nor does our amendment state that we don't think we should prevent these abuses that stand in the light of this law. But the government acts like this -- or they don't read to the end what we people's MPs suggest; or they think that's how we do it, so we don't get into the essence, so the government can tell us whatever they want and we'll say -- God, said the government, that's how it is. And clearly in the light of this amendment, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was submitted by counterpart Bozidar Koprivica, says: "This matter must be regulated by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. "So nobody said it shouldn't be regulated but we said the only way it can and must be regulated. I think, indeed, Minister, despite this, I would say, inconclusive reasoning of the Government, it would be good for you to accept this amendment and, of course, to suggest to your colleague, the minister of justice, who prepares these other laws, that this crime also be in that new criminal code. It would give gravity to even strengthen the legal system of the state, that we shouldn't do what we've all figured out many times, that it's not good, that we have hundreds of crimes in hundreds of laws, that we need as one serious state and one serious parliament to do the codified criminal law, and then there's no need now to build this provision into this law, and maybe in a month, we get a criminal law from the government, and then we go a month after that to amend and supplement this law. It should be (repeated to the Minister), the point is that it should be all in one law. I suggest, fellow MPs, that you accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13472	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Predrag Bubalo and then by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13473	What I'm trying to say is that the matter of criminal law is being entered, but what has been done is not legally impossible and illegal. It's a celery. We don't know when the Criminal Law will come to the agenda, but we do know that we have a lot of problems in those environments where small shareholders want to sell their actions, spend their records of values they own, and because of the lack of a prospectus, they can't do that. This is neither the first nor the last law to prescribe a criminal provision in this way. We also have it in the Banks Act, and there are those in the Privatization Act. We should simply also take care of the principle of prevention. And we have a situation to wait for Godo, or should I say, by feeding on waiting, we starve to death. Simply, rational reasons lead us to such a provision, and legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13474	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13475	Well, we already have in the procedure of passing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. The amendments have been made. I think it's the right place for a possible crime, if this is a crime, there, not in this law. But here, let's explain it a little bit. You have now said that you had to predict this socially dangerous behavior as a criminal act, because small shareholders are unable to realise their needs because there is no prospectus. I remind you of Article 11a(2): "If a company does not act at the request of the Action Fund under Article 1 of this Article (this can be interpreted - if the responsible person does not act) or by written initiative of shareholders who have at least one tenth of the issuer's share capital, trade in shares takes place on the financial stock market without a prospectus. "So, you've already predicted the possibility if someone is obstructing a company and makes it impossible for the state to trade on the financial stock market in shares held by the Action Fund. Now, what I'm trying to tell you is that this failure or that blockade can't be a crime. We can't prescribe that crime is all we don't like. If we accept your logic, then it would turn out this way - if the National Assembly's session doesn't start at 10.00 hours, the National Assembly president at 11.00 does a criminal act and every representative of the three-shot parliamentary group should shoot him. Well, we can't write that in the Rules of Procedure. Here, let me read you how you wrote this article. You said this way: "The responsible person of a company who does not comply with the request of the Action Fund of Article 11a of this Act will be punished by a prison of three months to five years and by a fine of up to 800,000 dinars," and will be shot with three bullets in the back of the head. Because you see how nice that sounds, how it makes one whole. It can't be a crime, Minister. He can't. It's in the area of economy. He didn't do anything, he didn't do anything, and talk to the Republic Public Prosecutor, he's probably in the description of this behavior, and he can find elements of the being several crimes, because you tied him to Article 11a, where it's prescribed what needs to be done. There's a crime here of committing a responsible person. In legal theory, it's familiar. If you want to bring him down to criminality, the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia has an answer for this. Does the prosecutor apply, does the Action Fund run the process, that's a second question, but don't scare the bear with the solution, because if we go with that logic, then I can rightly ask the question, you just cited concrete examples where management blocks the transfer of action, the continuation of privatisation and trade, and what if the state blocks? What if he's blocking Kljajevic, the President of the Trade Court, what if he's blocking? What if he's blocking someone at the Privatisation Agency? As far as the situation was concerned that you had called auction sales, people and auctions were declared unsuccessful, and there were expenses. Who paid 800 grand, three months to five years, did anyone at the Agency get punished? Nobody. And it's obstruction at the Agency. See what was done on the Privatisation Committee, where concrete examples of where the Privatisation Agency stopped auctioning for no reason. Let me remind you, this is where we listened to some Pavlovic for normal Serbia. I guess you remember, you, Vlahovic, that MP. He was after the director of the Privatisation Agency and when he was stepped on by the Privatisation Committee about Gorica, he specifically made remarks against a guy named Grujic, he says dead cold, sorry, please, I've known for years, he's my friend, what do you have against it. What's not a crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13476	I don't know why Mr. Vlahovic is running so far for this pay phone, he was Minister of Industry and Privatisation for three years and said what he had. Now he can get out of the opposition position, but, you know, he doesn't drink all the water. I just wanted to tell you, when it comes to this amendment by my colleagues, Bozidar Koprivica, Mr. Minister, although it is justified to prevent a colleague, now to give you an additional argument, I have to tell you that Mr. Koprivica is a lawyer, otherwise an excellent culprit, and he is a man who wanted you as a minister of business to point out that he is not a good practice, and Mr. Vlahovic knows this earlier, and we warned him about it, and all the other ministers that the area being treated and should be treated with new criminal law is being incorporated into this law. You just said you have to act preventively. I could accept that, Djelic had the same story before, that you were not seeing Minister Stojkovic and that you are not in this same government of Kostunica, but as you have the government's sessions, as Serbian citizens on TV see you meeting there, you pull Minister Stojkovic's sleeve, so ask him - colleague Stojkovic, when the new criminal code, which you prepared and sent to the Assembly in the procedure three or four months ago, will come on the agenda. You know, the minister knows three or four days in the hallway to sit down, drink coffee and wait for a few members to change and supplement some law to be found on the agenda. And he'd be better off doing it and taking care of how trade courts work, and courts of general jurisdiction, than threatening, which makes it intense, both yesterday and yesterday, along with Rasim Ljajic, the Hague indictees, or those pursued by Carla del Ponte, to freeze their property. Yesterday, Mr. Vukic told you that first of all you have to take care of, and as minister in the government, that it never happens; when it comes to those being persecuted by the UN tribunal and when it comes to criminal acts that there is no point in putting them in any way, even if it is an excuse for you to act preventively, you put them in this Act on the Action Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13477	Replica, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13478	I'm mentioned by MP Krasic and I don't feel at all offended by that reference. On the contrary. First of all, it's time for everyone to start getting used to the fact that we're going to be at this pay phone and in the first benches of the DS soon. So there's no need to be surprised why I'm constantly showing up for this pay phone. It is extremely well-intentioned to correct the legal projects that we will be applying at the end of tomorrow when we are part of the executive government. Exactly, MP Krasic mentioned that at one point it even happened, in that tsunami that affected private sector development, that even a man without any qualifications would be the director of the Agency. I am pleased, and that is what I wanted to say, which seems to me to be the time of that total political acuity and opposition at all costs behind us and that, after all, the ruling coalition also had the strength and courage to admit and say -- we did have disastrous human resources in the institutions responsible for the development of the private sector. I hope it never happens again and that the situation will not be repeated in one, another, third public enterprise, and that we won't have to know what price, who knows what time we pay the price for our own stupidity. I hope it's actually a school.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13479	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13480	I hope you accept the amendment, because it is impossible for someone to be employed in the Action Fund and not be subject to the Law on the Rights of Employees in State Authorities, because then the question is asked - and what is this Action Fund? Whose is he, someone's private front? I guess the law applies. I guess there's a law that applies to government employees, because the question is, what do they do, who do they represent there? Why wouldn't that law apply to them? If you don't want to apply the law for pay, that's another thing. Give it to Dinkic, he will do it very effectively, but statusally there must apply this law, as applied to public services, to all other public institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-22-0.u13481	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Dr Predrag Bubalo, the Minister of Industry, want to say? No need, he spoke enough. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and continent, by concluding that the Legislative Committee, before tomorrow's session of the Assembly, will consider the amendment to Article 11 and whether it is possible to correct the technical slip and return the position in that Article 11, and then the debate on the third point would continue. I thank all the MPs for the extraordinary correctness in the afternoon work, by completing the second item of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
