ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-02-0.u16112	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 213 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than 130 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Aligrudic and Gordana Comic. Since we've held a debate on the agenda points of this session, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amendment to the constitutional rule of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, with the proposal for a law on the implementation of the amendments to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, with the proposal for a law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, are moving to a decision on each of these acts individually. I am putting the amendment proposal to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. For 136, three of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I am putting to the vote the draft law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. For 140, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCIAS LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. For 125, it did not vote 13, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 3 of the amendment to add Article 4a after Article 4. and amendment to Article 6. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 124, there were no votes of eight, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. For 125, they did not vote three out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 30 May 2005, at 15.50 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 135. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 75, against 121, six of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zarko Obradovic, at a session on 30 May 2005, at 17.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 89, 98 and 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. 93, v 104, abstention one, were not voted by three, of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Now that we've closed the session, my request is, immediately, the heads of the parliamentary groups, a meeting in the president's office. Thank you. So we can discuss the next session.
