ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20504	Mr. Markovic, you've already spoken for the third time -- here you go, but there's no way to turn the microphone on. Mr. Markovic, first of all, I have to say that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure again, and that is Article 85, paragraph 1, which regulates the time in which the Assembly works. I don't know why you're trying to be supposed to be nice, so you can explain to the MPs when they're going to work and how they're going to work, that they can plan their time, and you're taking the worst possible way to usurp our time, so one day you're making us work up to 20-21 hours, until midnight, or how, and the next day you finish your session after only an hour or 15 minutes of work. We had a situation on Tuesday that you practically cheated on us. We came all the way here, and you invited us to discuss the confidence of Justice Minister Stojkovic, and then you simply decided not to put it on the agenda and send us all home. But let's get back to the law, and I'd like to ask for conditions for work. Mr. Mihailovic, since I see that the chairman has now changed, and I am the question which relates to the breach of the Rules of Procedure overtly referred to Mr. Markovic, you do not have to answer, but I hope that he will do so when he returns to this room. As for the amendment to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, I will repeat a few things I said yesterday and try to ask a few more questions to the Minister. I hope that during yesterday's day and this afternoon, he consulted a little bit with the legislative service in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they explained to him that this law could look, what is constitutional and what is not constitutional, especially since we already have some decisions of the Constitutional Court that clearly defined the position that what is written in this amendment and supplementation proposal is simply not allowed in accordance with our Constitution. I'll remind you, Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "Everyone has the right to work. The freedom of work, the free choice of occupation and employment and participation in management is guaranteed. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function." So you can't, by any law or sublegal act, change something defined by the Constitution as the highest legal act in the country. If they voted in favour of what you asked for, if the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, i.e. in Article 36 of that Law, erases the position 4 which says that when adopting the programme referred to in Article 2 of this Law, or the City, they have no right to limit the number of persons capable of carrying a car taxi on the territory of the municipality, or the city, they would practically get nothing. Why? There are two reasons. First of all, because there is already a ban on the limitations of someone, anyone in the choice of profession, not only of taxi transport, but of any other profession, so that the erasure of this provision, which was, can be said freely, and unnecessary completely, because it regulates and repeats something already regulated by a higher legal act, will not bring you anything. Secondly, anarchy will not be removed, according to the minister, which could occur in road traffic, because all those who have been in force since the day of entry into force of this law, until the day that these changes eventually take effect, have submitted a request for a license to carry out taxi operations, must absolutely be allowed. Anything else would mean legal violence, total legal uncertainty, and it would mean that this state and this government are not behind what parliament votes to, that you, as well as some previous governments, continue to brutally trample both the Constitution and the laws of this country, that you are not worthy of those proposals that you make yourself. As far as this observation of yours is concerned, let me say, that what wasn't the government's proposal, as you say here, was adopted in paragraph 4, I don't know what it means that the adopted amendment was implemented in paragraph 4, because if something had been implemented in paragraph 4, then it wouldn't have been necessary to implement it again by amendment. But by adopting an amendment that is not a proposal from the government, you absolutely can't say that that makes you feel that erasing this attitude is necessary. That would mean that the National Assembly here is just a silent observer, that we can only name when you submit the texts, that the amendments are absolutely unnecessary category, and then not only should there not be a quorum in the days when a law is being discussed, but it's meaningless to have a quorum in the days when it's being decided. It is enough to say that something has been proposed by the government, that it is born and that in the future it is so. I hope that today, since I didn't get them yesterday, I will answer these specific questions by Mr. Minister. I would like to ask you one more question, it is said that the question of compliance with Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Articles 36 is raised. Transport laws in road traffic. So, if there has already been some discrepancy, it has been an exclusive job of the Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to propose, through the Legislative Committee, to amend a provision through a legal-technical order. There are opportunities for the Assembly to stop making further decisions after the amendment has been adopted. We've had this situation a few times. In no way can there be any justification for changing what the congregation has adopted be that attitudes 2, 3 and 4 of the same member of the law are not in line. Because of all this, of course, the SRS will not vote for this law, and I call on all those who, for the first time, have voted on the agenda for this amendment to reaffirm their opinion, because I don't know what the forces are that make you change certain positions completely within a few days or a few weeks, whether they are some heavenly forces, whether they are groundwater, which is what they are, I don't know, but be sure that one day you will have to explain to your voters why one day you stand for one, and the next day you stand for a completely opposite solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20505	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, we experience once again that within 15 - 20 days, the law we have already passed, which we have voted on, the amendments we have adopted, a law that has already entered into force only in 10 or 15 days. Given that it is a traffic safety law, the reason is not traffic safety, but is one of the amendments adopted in this assembly. It is an amendment that Serbian Radical Party MPs have put on the table of Article 4 36. The minister, i.e. the government is asking for the 4th position to be deleted, and I will read this 4th position because of Serbian citizens: "In the adoption of the programme under heading 2 of this municipality member, i.e. the city, they have no right to limit the number of persons who can carry a car taxi on the territory of the municipality, or the city. "What did this mean? This means that anyone who meets the law of the prescribed conditions can apply for a taxi and thus earn and support his family. The reason why this is done, at least in terms of yesterday's and in the explanation given to us, is not to report a large number of taxi drivers, that someone who buys a car and has a B and C category, meets these legal conditions can go freely to the taxi service. That's the open-minded reason. The second reason, therefore, is to say to the citizens of Serbia, very simply: Nenadu Bogdanovic, mayor of Belgrade, has shown the opportunity to do so in this way, to limit the number of taxis and licenses, because this will be the next step, for quite a profit. You know, in a situation where he built a pump where it didn't belong, when he dug up half of Belgrade, and still doesn't asphalt, when a lot of crime from this very mayor in this Belgrade, the citizens, they didn't want to throw this away either. This is a way to take at least 5,000 euros from each license. It is a public secret that under 5,000 euros, Bogdanovic does not work. I'm not surprised Bogdanovic, I'm surprised the minister accepted this unless it's some blackmail or if it's not that - work by effect, I do it to you, you do it to me. Why does this not fit, because besides, the market economy, who is capable, who is good quality, who provides quality services will survive on the market. Those who bought the car to get involved in a taxi, so they saw that they couldn't make money on it very quickly will be excluded, because, and the fact is that it can be determined, Belgrade is exactly with about 5,000-6,000 taxi drivers, and it's constantly being maintained, and when there were no legal restrictions, and when it was, they introduced it for a time, and then they erased it. If we go like this, then some minister of trade and tourism will say -- there can be so many mixed goods stores in Belgrade, so many confectionery stores, in Belgrade he can extort 2,000 cobblers and not one more, and then he will give the shoe license. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not in accordance with the law, and Mr Sarovic made it clear yesterday why he did not comply, why this Article 4th Article should not be deleted. Competition is the only way to survive the market. Now I'm going to expand the subject a little bit. I went recently to Obrenovac; the road, which he cut the tape for, and released by Minister Velimir Ilic, we fixed the bridge, not built, it was a nice bridge, we let it go, the road was made at the time of that unnatural regime that you brought in after October 5th; the bridge was also built, so your friends knocked it down, so you let it go for two months that road and the bridge and two months that bridge and that road didn't work. Did you then lie to the people that everything was ready when you let him go or now you lie to the people; if he was ready, why do you hold him for so long now? One more thing for the citizens of Serbia has to be said, and I ask – is it not by any chance that this law and similar laws mask that something much bigger goes by? It's a concession on the Horgos-Požega highway; it's a halfway concession, Horgos-Novi Sad, or a whole highway concession, but half the highway has already been built. It is a concession on the already built Danube bridge, and there is a second half of 120m euros, or 120m dollars. We made a decision here to put the state in charge, or it was a counterguarantee decision. It is a highway built from Beska to Belgrade, a construction road from Belgrade to Požega. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs at prices before this gathering, and now the prices have jumped, about 100%, because there have been 200 dinars to Vrbasa, and now 400 dinars in one direction, so at that toll price, the net profit of concessionaires exceeds 640m euros. I wonder and ask the citizens of Serbia who can, therefore, give 640m euros of their money to someone and what are the reasons? The reason is: he's either my brother, or that third reason I won't talk about, because I don't want to doubt that the minister is subject to corruption. However, the Serbian Radical Party's expert team, where the prominent professors, the doctors of the construction profession, had done an elaborate to prove that at the cost of capital, at the cost of a 5% loan, which is about the figures, the Belgrade-Pozega highway would be completely paid off by 2025. From 2025 to 2030, as a concession is given at 33 years, it is a net profit, not taking into account the infrastructure around the highway. It's motels, hotels, gas stations, etc. We need to talk about this one more time in this assembly before the concession comes out and before one of these concessionaries gets his hands in the jar, into a Serbian bear jar, licking his fingers for another 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20507	The word has the head of the DSS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic, a folk MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20508	As head of the parliamentary group, I will say something about matter itself, the law and the amendment that has been proposed. So, there were words about whether the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, whether it is legal – it is legal, as soon as it is the law, of course; whether it is in accordance with the legal system – it certainly is because there is no other legal regulation in the country to which this provision would be opposed. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the Constitution primarily implies the equality of citizens in all areas of life, where it is logical and normal. Let me remind you, first of all, that equality in the exercise of profession or activity or in some other sense means that people are equal, that citizens are equal under certain conditions. Therefore, there are conditions for carrying out certain activities or certain professions and, under these conditions, all citizens are equal. This means that when there are conditions for carrying out taxis, all citizens who meet the conditions prescribed for carrying out taxis have the right to carry out that activity. Here, however, the next question was whether it was possible to limit the number, which this provision would give, because it does not limit the number of taxi drivers in municipalities and cities, but rather enables local self-government to limit the number of taxi drivers, i.e. people who operate taxis in the city, by regulating traffic in the city and in the municipality. It comes from the assumption that it will be done on the basis of conditions of traffic in the city, not on the grounds that there is someone's motive that someone has no competition. It can't be the legislator's motive, it can't be the motive for us here today to say – because there are esnafi, taxi associations we want to limit the number of taxi carriers, so that some others wouldn't be competitive if they showed up. No, I don't. The basis for that is something else. I'll remind you that there are similar restrictions in other areas, so nobody's making any questions, and it's a logical thing. Take, for example, higher education or high school education. You know very well that the Constitution and the law allow everyone to be educated on equal terms. You know that universities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac receive a number of students during the year. Many, and more than that, would like to study at these universities, and so are the entrance exams that are eliminational. Therefore, there are certain points that are being calculated and that means that not all those who want to enter a certain university at that time, because there is a limit in numbers. So there are certain conditions that not all can meet, although potentially they all have their rights, so then they can't all study in college. We're going closer to what's matter, we're going to the city traffic organization in public transport in cities and municipalities. You know there's got to be a line-up. Linear transport shall be determined by establishing a number of lines according to the needs of the city, and the decision shall be taken by the city or municipalities on their territory. Therefore, the number of lines shall be determined in the city or municipality and the number of vehicles which may be included in those lines shall be determined according to these lines. The number of vehicles and the number of lines, both are determined according to the conditions of traffic in the city. Imagine, for example, that in Belgrade, we can freely hire anyone who wants to drive, according to conditions the city's decision would determine, and carry out transport by private vehicle, which is nothing controversial, and that is, say, the number of 5,000 vehicles. I guarantee you that the city of Belgrade cannot handle that number of vehicles. There'd be a traffic collapse. So, a taxi ride, unlike the private transport that we have when we drive our own car, is a transport that takes place by making people do it for life. They do it to live, and when they have a license and they're defined to be driving a cab, they have to get in their cab to try to make money that day. The truth is that the market would clarify the situation, it is true that many of them eventually give up on carrying that transport if they realize that competition is big and that they cannot earn as much as they thought. Gentlemen and ladies, it would be a time until it was realized, it would be five, six, seven months or a year, and in that time, since everyone would try to perform that work, there would simply be a collapse in city traffic. Therefore, someone has to take care of it, and this must be allowed by law to take care of the overall burden of traffic. Therefore, it is not about discrimination or the setting of conditions that are discriminatory to anyone but it is about something that falls under the conditions of carrying taxis. Therefore, everyone is given the right to drive a taxi, and if there are conditions and if one city or municipality in Serbia can withstand such a burden at a given time and I think it is quite correct that the law allows the city or the municipality to determine, in accordance with its constitutional and legal powers, what it is or does not have to burden one city or municipality when it comes to traffic conditions. So that's the key and that's why we're making a provision like this, and all of this has nothing to do with what I'm talking about. Therefore, there is no basis for discrimination against anyone with regard to the right to exercise activity, but it is simply that we need to determine whether there are or not in a certain environment conditions to be placed on the market by a certain number of vehicles for persons whose professional activity will be, and who have no choice from that point on, but have to sit in their car and have to burden the streets of the city by moving their own vehicle to which they operate. So that's the point of the story, not whether or not someone will be able to perform that action. So, everyone has to perform this work, which meets certain conditions, and this condition will also fall under the conditions for carrying out taxis, as it will be given in certain urban or municipal decisions in Serbia, and which does not have to be, because the provision of which is, and I hope to change as we have suggested, will enable cities or municipalities to do so. Therefore, no discrimination shall be exercised by this legal provision, nor shall it be announced in any way. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20509	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20510	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I absolutely don't see what this comparison has to do with what Mr Aligrudic has to do with enrolment in colleges with taxis. So, if you say so, and you say you don't want to discriminate against anyone, but to prescribe conditions... We, of course, absolutely don't object to the regulation of conditions. So you can say – whoever wants to take a taxi must have such a vehicle, which must have five doors, must be of certain age and quality and meet certain conditions. Anyone who meets these conditions you must absolutely give permission to work. Anything else, if you say - we will limit the number of taxi drivers in Belgrade, then that can only mean that you want to protect those in Belgrade, and you know very well who these people are, from Bogdanovic and beyond, who are taking extremely large sums of money to issue permits. Therefore, it is a public secret that there are several thousand people who have fulfilled all the laws and regulations and decisions of the city of Belgrade prescribed conditions for carrying out taxis, and that they wait several years to obtain permits, while yet others who apply after a month or two are already on the street with neatly issued permits. So it's not about anyone here, at least it's not about the Serbian Radical Party, that in any way it forbids someone to engage in certain activities and to bring chaos or anything else, it's about what is guaranteed by Article 35. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the right, is said to have the right to work and to guarantee freedom of work, free choice of profession and employment. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function. So, you can prescribe the terms of whatever you want, stricter if you want a smaller number of taxi drivers or less stricter if you want a larger number, but you can't say that by law or decision of the city, you'll forbid someone to do any legal work, a taxi ride, to be a baker or anything else. Your second argument, that this is allegedly due to the conditions of traffic in the city, is also not acceptable, because it is clear, and these are European tendencies, so done in all European cities, is being stimulated to make the most of the transportation across the city via taxis and buses. So this is what needs to be stimulated – the more people who are professionally involved in this work. It's the only way to get traffic out of town. But this is not arranged in any study, nor in any other serious way, but it is wanted, under some excuse that absolutely does not drink water, to protect someone in the city of Belgrade, who, I repeat, is taking big revenues from these people, and they will only have to pay a lot when licenses are issued on the agenda that the minister announced.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20511	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20512	Of course I didn't mention it, as I didn't mention Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, seeking a replica, probably in accordance with Article 101, has just injured the Rules of Procedure, misleading the chairman of his own right to replication. That's what you could tell from the exposure on the spot. As Mr Nemanja Sarovic quoted the Rules of Procedure yesterday, so will I. So, in Article 101, it reads: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation", which is probably what you are calling for, and I will say something about this, "the national MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. "The replica can last for a maximum of three minutes. So I guess Mr. Nemanja Sarovic called for me to misread what he said. First of all, I didn't mention any moment to No Sarovic. Secondly, in my presentation, he recognized the wrong interpretation of what he was talking about. It has nothing to do with what Mr. Nemanja Sarovic was saying with what I'm saying. That's exactly the point of the story. To misread you, I'd have to bear in mind, comment on what you've been saying, draw the wrong conclusions from what you've been saying. No, I draw absolutely correct conclusions from what you've been saying, or anyone from your MP group, and I'm very good at the view that it's not good, that it's not right. Whether it's wrong or not, you can't appreciate it. I've made some other arguments here for the same thing, which doesn't make it any less obvious that I misread you. Therefore, when we have cleared this up, it follows that you have misused your right to replication, misused the chairman's trust and thus, Mr Nemanja Sarovic, violated the Rules of Procedure, misused your authority under Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20513	It is true that I gave the replica precisely because MP Nemanja Sarovic was called on to be misread. This is Article 101(1), and in relation to Article 3, I have given the right to replication. Mr. Sarovic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20514	Mr. Aligrudic, since it is now indisputable that you mentioned me, I will read you a few more members of the Rules of Procedure, and I will tell you next. In accordance with Article 27 of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitution is holding meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In his absence, Mr. Aligrudic, that's what the chairman does. Then I'll explain it to you. You are the head of a certain parliamentary group, and you can feel very much because this parliamentary group is still in power, but, Mr. Aligrudic, it is not yours to interpret the Rules of Procedure. So, the chairman, Mr. Mihailovic, was absolutely right and was an excellent judge when he gave me the right to the replica, because it is doubtless that you spoke about what I was saying first last night, before the end of yesterday's session, and then continued this morning. Mr. Aligrudic, you said you'd be replicating me last night, especially since you got hit by the management board thing, about the cash, etc. That's when you announced you'd be replicating me. So don't say it has nothing to do with my exposure. We can also check the stenograms if you want. You were just talking about what I was saying and completely misread the goals for which this law was passed and completely misread my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20515	Mr. Aligrudic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20516	Article 104 says: People's messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and they are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr. Sarovic, I address you with respect. I haven't said any disqualification for a moment. But you couldn't help but remember that I was looking for a replica yesterday. I gave up that replica because if I wanted to, I would remind the chairman at the beginning of the session to give me a word. It's just, at that point, I thought I'd give up on something, give up on it, and I'm not going to comment on it anymore. The mention of boards of directors, cash, etc. It's probably about you trying to challenge a certain debate, insult me personally or my parliamentary group. I really have no reason to react and I think that's okay. As for the interpretation, believe me, nothing to do with what I've been saying has anything to do with what you've been talking about. That's what I've been trying to prove and prove all along. Therefore, do not feel called. If at any point you felt called, I apologize to you immediately for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20517	Since MP Simonovic has returned from the Committee, we will give him our word, then Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20518	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the law seems small, like, erasing the position of one member, but it is very important to arrange a taxi service in the country of Serbia. I'm primarily in Belgrade here because sometimes I use a cab and I know these problems. This isn't a new thing. And before that, when I was a councilman in the City Assembly, and then the cab drivers protested, they sought some of their rights, etc. So this is not a new problem at all about Belgrade. The change is important because it allows city authorities to limit the number of taxi drivers. There is no city in Europe where that number is not limited. The number of taxi drivers is determined according to the number of residents of one city, for example. Belgrade can have 5,000 taxi drivers. It's over and no one can get a license anymore. It is an accident that some MPs are beginning to assume that everything will be done unfairly. I don't go from that assumption. I don't see why you're defending this restriction. When you sit in any taxi today in Belgrade, ask the taxi driver if he wants to be a limited number and he will tell you – yes, we wait for that, we want the number to be limited. We have another specialty that's nowhere in the world, and that's what it is. Wild cabbies. One day I sat in a cab to take me to Calemegday and I was looking for a bill, and he said, "Sir, I don't have a bill," and I said, "You're a savage? ". "Yes," he admitted to me honestly. Who gives them those plates that they're taxi drivers? I've heard it, but I can't say it's given to them by the president of a cab driver's association. That's what taxi drivers tell me, nobody tells me about Nenad Bogdanovic, but the president of a Belgrade association gives them these tables and charges. I don't have any evidence of it, and I don't want to talk about it any further, but I've heard it from a cab driver these days. So it's not just a taxi number problem, the problem is what taxi drivers and their vehicles look like. I got in a cab once, except it's not falling apart. It's not only ancient, it's dirty, it's never washed by that cabbie. He lit a cigarette, doesn't ask me if he can smoke or can't. What's he got to smoke in the cab? One day, we may decide that taxi drivers are unbalanced, so that the vehicles are categorized, to choose, say, two taxi vehicles in Belgrade. It's like that everywhere in Europe. Now we can't do that, we're a poor country, we can't ask the cab driver, but it'll come in line one day, because the cab is a public service, ladies and gentlemen, and it has to be arranged, as other public services are arranged. As for the right to work, it says in the Constitution that everyone has the right to work, but not on the terraces, in Serbia's territory. That's what this is about. Let's say someone ends up in medicine, goes to one hospital and says, "I want to work," and they say, "I'm sorry, we have enough doctors, so far we don't need you, and when we do, we'll discuss the contest, and then you'll get back to me." The same goes for all other jobs, including taxi drivers. The taxi drivers expect this change, at least as far as the taxi driver in Belgrade is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20519	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20520	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party is against this law, not because of taxi drivers, but because of citizens using taxi services. Let's get this straight first. Furthermore, if it hadn't been for these two predecessors who defended this bill, I would have suggested that the minister resign, and let them ask themselves why only two deputies of 130 and something who support the government came out to defend the bill. The reasons for the adoption of the law states that the amendment implemented in paragraph 4 and which was not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes it necessary to delete this position. With that, Mr. Minister, you can go to a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a legislator before the Government sets out a bill, but with such a text to go to the National Assembly and say that the Government is smarter than the Assembly and the People's MPs, it is a disgrace and humiliation to the Assembly and to any MP who defends such a bill, especially if it is so reasoned. I've listened here, from those who defend this law, all kinds of nonsense, at the very least. The man was mixing grandmothers and frogs, when he was talking about the number of students, the number of buses, it was just missing planes to talk about. That's all that was missing, to compare the plane to the taxi service, and nothing more, to make it complete. There have been stories here that all European big cities are doing it. Maybe. What is the problem in Serbia, in the country of Serbia, what do some like to say? The problem is someone's trying to get a piece of bread to their family, nothing more. That's the difference between European metropolis and Serbia. Unemployment forces people to look for a way to provide their family. First, Mr. Minister, you brought bulldozers to power by a government that caused huge unemployment in Serbia. Now you're taking part in the government that's been going through this job, people are running out of work, trying to figure out how they know and know, and one way is to take a cab ride. Why are you challenging him now? Who are you leaving this right to? Who is it that has such a right to give local self-government something that, by some rules right now, shouldn't be. Someone said there were no legal obstacles to one of these legal proposals. What about the Competition Protection Act? Is it contrary to that law? That's where my colleague came out, told himself everything and everything. What about the Competition Protection Act? Is he breaking up here? It's breaking, and this government brought it in. How do you explain that now, Mr. Minister? Where's the resemblance? On the one hand, we work in the interest of citizens, and on the other hand we pass a bill like this. Now someone comes out and says taxi drivers aren't against this law. Maybe those who have a license, who somehow reached out to local self-government. What about those who are still waiting for permission? Are they for one of these laws or not? What about the citizens? Why does this town hall, as Belgrade is the largest market, not prescribe conditions, standardise what kind of taxi cars they can be? We can discuss this, say that citizens should not get into every car that is not clean, which is not regulated, which has no certain standards, five doors, certain years of age, etc. That's what we can talk about. What happens to citizens when we limit the number of taxi drivers? Citizens are users of taxi services. If there are not enough or a limited number, one specific service will cost as much as that limited number of deals and no market law, no supply and demand laws. There were stories that by passing this law, it would be regulated not to collapse in city traffic. That's, at the very least, nonsense. If the price of the taxi service is high, if it works, from the Serbian Parliament you should go to Zemun and give 1,000 dinars and 1,000 dinars to return, it is normal for me to get in my car. I'm not giving someone 2,000 dinars. I think that service doesn't cost that much, but it can be carried out on the market because it's someone in love with the mayor of Belgrade. It's nothing else. It may occur to someone that in some of the following laws, they limit every type of service: retailing, trades, department stores, textile sales, etc. We can thus simply create one layer of people who are close to some ruling structure in some local self-government and that they operate the opposite market on a particular territory. In addition to this argument, which is ultimately a disgrace to the National Assembly, which has put one such legal proposal with one of these arguments on the agenda, the question of whose idea is this. On the one hand, we have a party that says it will not enter the Assembly because the Democratic Party of Serbia allegedly took away two MPs and will not go with them to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also because they sit well in the City Assembly and dictate together with Nenad Bogdanovic DSS what legislative proposals they will bring here. That's what you're voting on, gentlemen Members of Parliament from the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20521	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question we should ask the President of the Assembly is whether he had the right to come before the National Assembly with a bill of law that is directly contrary to the Constitution and to what Article 35 provides. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party believes the president of the Serbian Parliament made one big precedent when he allowed himself to find the proposal of an unconstitutional act before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To remind and repeat, we Serbian radicals say it's in article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that everyone has the right to work. It guarantees freedom of work, free choice of profession, employment. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function. Under the bill of this law, there is no such thing. There is obviously discrimination here, and there is a limit to the number of citizens who will be taxi drivers tomorrow, and not just taxi drivers; this opens up the possibility of numerous abuses for numerous professions. Mr. Ilic has made a proposal to amend this law. Now expect the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Other Resors. They all have the right to say now – we are now empowering the mayor of Belgrade to prescribe how many midwives, cooks, electricians, mechanics, all other professions we will not list. Who is authorized in this House to trample on fundamental human rights, which are guaranteed by the international documents that this country has ratified? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted, the UN took part in its adoption, the UN Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and not to mention. Then, European, American, African and other documents on other rights. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the American Convention, the Resolution on European Co-operation, the Paris Charter, the European Convention on the Prevention of Justice; then, to stop seven countries, the United States, France, Germany, Italy and not to list, which are properly regulated by the rights of all citizens in the country. If our country is relying on European standards and accepts international legal acts and respects those international legal acts it has ratified, then there can be no word on the adoption of a law that will limit discrimination by certain occupations. If we bear in mind that we have introduced a multi-party system, that we have mayors in the municipalities of Serbia from different parties, it will also happen that a taxi driver will get a work permit if he and he joins that party. I don't want to list which party it is and which could possibly be tomorrow, but there are numerous possibilities for manipulation and numerous abuses. He'll be a cab driver, but they have to come to the president of the municipality to sign an access card and they'll be from one party. This will not be possible and this should not happen and we cannot allow even those fundamental human rights prescribed by international acts to be violated. Therefore, Member States which have ratified international contracts and these provisions of certain rules undertake to respect and guarantee all persons on their territory and who fall under their jurisdiction all specific rights, including the right to work. The minister's laughing. He's probably having a laugh. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but I wouldn't allow it myself. I would first take these international documents that our country has ratified, and I wouldn't give up on them, so let me be criticised by someone who doesn't like it tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, these international documents have specified it, these international documents have established it, and we have to respect it. The question is, what the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party said, is there a order in traffic. There can't be order, Mr. Minister, if your traffic inspectors don't do their duty. What's going on in the field? Run an analysis, go to the Assembly and the Government, so say - we have traffic inspectors in Serbia's territory so much; whether that's enough number to control traffic and to control and who has a license to work as a taxi driver and who doesn't have a license to work. Gentlemen, traffic inspectors on the ground do not carry out your duty as prescribed by the law. It'll be easy for you and those who don't have work permits. Just have him do an inspection on the ground and take the appropriate steps. But what the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party said must be considered, and that – if the government improves the social situation, opens up new jobs, there are no workers so many in the million in the employment office, certainly there will not be so many of those who will be wildly doing this work. But if you have a wild cab service, then no one answers and no final result will be achieved. This isn't gonna score. Absolutely this won't give you results, you can change the law a hundred times, practice says otherwise. Secondly, the cost of taxi service will certainly be affected if the cab driver's number is limited. Why? Because it will only be possible for individuals to enter the taxi register and get permission, and a large number of those who have nothing to live on, as Serbian Radical Party MPs have said, will be in a more unfavourable position. We Serbian radicals believe this should be removed from the agenda, but we are telling you that this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 35. It's against all international... Repeat, it's not a waste. We have ratified a number of documents. If that's true, if you admit it, please warn and draw attention that this will be able to go even to the International Court in Strasbourg, because if you make a solution, you reject someone that can't get permission to work, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees that they have the right to address the International Court of Justice. What's it gonna be? It will be asked there – well, Serbia signed and ratified as a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, why you restrict rights regarding certain occupations and citizens cannot gain the right to work. This isn't meaningless. I believe Minister Ilic will not be able to get around this easily, if this is regulated by international acts. Yes, but it can go from today to tomorrow, but this is not applicable, and we will be faced with the provisions of international law. I, as a lawyer, draw your attention and tell you that this is not a meaningless matter, even though it's down to only two members. It opens up space and possibilities for numerous abuses in different structures and at different levels. If the basic problem is how to arrange a taxi service, please, there is a certain service, there is police, there is a ministry and traffic inspectors and let them do what the law requires them to do, not to look through the fingers of Janku, Mark, whether it's from this party or that party. Serbian radicals believe this is not allowed under the law, because Serbian radicals believe that all citizens are equal and under equal conditions have the right to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20523	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, this is where the objection was that Natasa Jovanovic was before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill, namely to put aside the power of one previously adopted amendment of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through a proposal that came to us from the Resolute Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only is it a bad practice for an executive relationship with the legislative authority, but one clear message to the MPs of the opposition parties that we should not even submit amendments. When it comes to amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, and you know that we are the most pressing in this because we are the strongest critics and the only true opposition to the current government of Vojislav Kostunica, we seek to make these amendments both in legal and technical terms and essentially, in line with the SRS programme and with what we consider to be a better opportunity and condition for the citizen and for certain areas, we submit amendments. But now what happened to the Labour Act is happening several months ago. In fact, in February, the Labour Act was adopted; at one point it was created, at some deaf time of the night, a lot of MPs and there was a congregation majority; he suffered drastic changes compared to what Lalovic suggested as a resolution minister. And then after a few months Lalovic showed up and said -- nothing good about it, the MPs didn't make a good decision, the blackmails with these "privers" who support Kostunica's government and came with amendments and additions to the Law in front of the Assembly and "eat a donkey wolf", there's none of that. What we agreed one night was wrong, a majority that improved the rights of the workers was created, and this is the same story. So, if, at some point, one of these coalition partners who constantly points out Kostunica's new requirements, according to the system of the earlier single DPS, as they were coming to Belgrade or now those others who are negotiating and colluding with Kostunica, and Marovic with them, for a bag of money to come to the assembly meeting of the state community, so there are both blackmail and agreement, and that's not good. If the motive of the second nature of Minister Ilic and the Republic government himself is that the issue of taxi drivers and taxis is arranged in this way in our country, it is not good. There are experiences from other countries. I have indeed, without false modesty, visited most European countries and metropolis and know how taxi transport works in London, Paris, Athens and other large cities or in the capitals of these great countries. It is true that there are certain restrictions, liner transport and restrictions there, but you must bear in mind that carrying out taxis in Serbia is directly related to the social structure and negative tendencies in our society, when it comes to those who have lost their jobs. It is impossible that in London, out of the 7,000 taxi drivers, it is one established tradition and because of cars used for this purpose, which means that all are uniform, or in another Europe city you find a taxi driver who says – I am a graduate engineer, I have worked in that company for 20 years, I have lost my job and now I have to taxi. However, in Kragujevac there is such a case, the number of taxi carriers and companies registered for that area in the city where I live, and there are hundreds of them, perhaps about 500, but I will check the data for a session of the City Assembly, where other things will be discussed and their constantly expressed problem of parking in the city. Such a decision and a transfer of responsibility, namely by giving off hands to the presidents of municipalities, mayors and those in power in local self-government units, creates a great opportunity for abuses. The Kabadijan behaviour of Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic in the town of Kragujevac is very well known, and even to your MP, Mr Vukevic, who is there the opposition in parliament, where the SRS is also a fierce opposition to Veroljub Stevanovic, but cab drivers also have a problem with him. He can't reason. In addition to putting a little behaton plate on Nikola Pasic Street only on one side, and now it's trying on the other, which is a completely unearthed city, which is also your MP, that's where the boardman and our committee group point out every Monday, he through some performances, and we through concrete examples, that nothing is done there and that taxi drivers, with a rolling stock that is more than 15 years old, break what little basic assets they have. He has a leading expert there, so I wouldn't give two skins drawn to guard, a certain Nebojsa Vasiljevic, who will say – if he can do so much, because he understands everything. There is no area in which this Vasiljevic does not understand and he will say – listen, Verko, the law has been passed in the Assembly and I will tell you how much the town of Kragujevac needs an optimal taxi driver, and he will believe him, as he is blindly trusted, and people will find themselves in trouble. It is my mistake and failure – I have no driver's license, so when I need in some small relationship to drive around the city, when it is necessary to use this taxi transport, which, by the way, is also because of the social situation in Serbia far cheaper than in your hometown or in the Kingdom, without talking about Belgrade and other major cities. These people work to survive. Those who have more cars may be able to make a little more money, and these other martyrs, those who are employed in these companies and work as taxi drivers, 12 hours is one shift. That's what young people and old people say, and very often these workers of the WHO, fired from the flag or from other Kragujevic failed companies. They will now express an open concern of what will happen to them if in such a way the number is limited and if only similar, as previously during crime and major corruption, which leaves traces in Kragujevac, during the rule of the DS, received jobs. That's how she got the job of the construction urban mob during these yellow ones who won't stay here in the Assembly, and some of them are your opposition, and you know they're not. Here, and Tadic shows it in co-habitation with Kostunica, and all of them at the level of local authorities and with the DSS both with you and from all other parties. But the problem is that one such decision is always based on a new model of corruption and mafia, in the right sense of the word, is something the SRS is against. I'm specifically talking about the city I'm from. Since there have been a lot of words during yesterday and today on this case and concrete examples that such practice exists, as I have now said, and probably you know it, in these other major European cities and other continents, things are happening here that your ministry cannot begin to solve, which are a major consequence of the great crime and corruption of the Dosmanian rule. I'm going to look back and connect those two things, so that means that corruption can take hold of you and remind you of one of your publicly said grades, especially on national and national television. That wasn't the time you mentioned me in some context, apparently I shouldn't be criticizing you for concessions and doing it inappropriately when I'm basically not doing it professionally. I can criticize you for all because I am a national MP, so when the Minister of Health comes, I can talk to him about it, when this one comes for agriculture, too, when the one comes for tourism, which is my area, and I can speak much more competent and professionally, but you don't need to have that kind of vanity when it comes to MPs, because you're MPs, and you're also an MP, who can tell you everything, and you have to put up with it all, and you don't have to put up with it for the first time on national or any other television to talk – this one attacked me there, this one said this or that. You can't do that, Mr. Minister. First of all, you have to be a gentleman, and on the other hand, that as a minister and a carrier of the executive authority, you have to put up with it nicely. You were right, and I have to support you in this statement given in February 2005, and later you repeated it on the Committee on Traffic and Connections, so I'm interested in today in the context of your presence and this whole crime story that we're making, and which is directly caused by the rule of then the Democratic Parties and now these heirs of G17 plus, you're saying that this is still happening in Serbia that SBB and KDS are doing whatever they want. When it comes to Kragujevac and KDS's relationship to the public company RT Kragujevac, there is neither Stevanović himself, and that he wants to engage in this, and he will not obviously be able to solve the problem, because he is from Belgrade, or from the Republic, monopoly behaviour and what you have rightly said, that they are collecting large capital, paying no one anything, that Soros is funding them, and that's true. Some newspapers have written about how they use their equipment and the way they operate even to listen to political inexperiences or those who, as they called it, are a hard national option, and against Soros and those who systematically destroy the state and the people, but these are already other professional stories and analyses. I'm particularly interested in when your ministry, the Republic government, is going to go into a tough fight with those who are carrying out, and apparently legally, a crime that happens by the SBB and the KDS. They are on our market, both in Kragujevac and in all other cities in Serbia, completely without one single dinar, cent, whatever you want, come in and do business. The issue was raised on the Privatisation Committee and very often the journalists asked you about it. I specifically asked the question at the last session of the City Assembly whether a new tender will be announced, how we will resolve this relationship, even though we are in favour of all media houses being privatised. You know, tails are drawn by one of the DS leaders from Kragujevac (and he is now engaged in this cable-distributive system), who was the director of a media house whose founder is the town of Kragujevac. So from one city to another, you're having an affair, and you don't solve anything about it. On the other hand, what's a big problem with the SRS, to you personally and to your ministry, when it comes to the Traffic and Connections Committee, whose member I'm not, I'm sorry I couldn't do that day, which is my business opportunity, so when it comes to the report and the table review of the consumers and the works done... It's very indicative, and that's why I've been asked by some colleagues who, today, have circumstances due to their obligations in the SO are not here, and they're members of the Transport and Connections Committee, to ask you what they asked you about the table and the non-explanation of the cost specification. Let's just say, as they explained to me, and I understood very well, when it comes to a 15km share of Užica, it is publically shown all that the tender, who is the performer, how much the funds have been spent, how far it has been, how much the stock has been realised, but when it comes to, let's say, the Vrčin share -- the drum stream, or so on, there's nothing, it just writes -- the realization 100%. We now have one situation in Kragujevac, I don't know if you're familiar with it, probably not this coalition partner of yours has informed you of the latest case; it's a scandal in the right sense of words and none of the normal presidents of the municipality can agree that Stevanović has entrusted the city with the new 350 million to do certain infrastructure projects and jobs without any cost specifications. He was given the right to choose a business bank to sign a contract with, and we don't know what deadline, or what interest it is, or how the overindebted citizens are going to pay it back. They say they'll do that part and that part of the city, that's how it costs gas, and that's what they did before in the DS, and that's why they went through the election. But we warn Serbian citizens, when it comes to this crime around the KDS and all these blurry jobs where there is no representation of what the citizens cost, that it is something they cannot bear. Because in all the problems that exist in society, with which we are burdened as a state and as a nation, with everything that is threatened by those who are constantly blackmailing this government, they have also blackmailed the previous one, trying to play with us as a people who have suffered hard, citizens, as part of all the issues and problems they recognize as the most pronounced and when they require early elections, and the vast percentage of those who are looking for it at this moment, what is the most troubling of you. You have no business, no hard living, little pensions, unemployment, and now all these other health threats, don't God, who are harassing the world, with whom every citizen is currently burdened, what is the one that hurts you the most? And they say crime and corruption. Where does that come from? From the top of the state government. Where is this KDS and SBB thing coming from? From the government of the Democratic Party and the Dossovo regime, the problem must be resolved. As far as the cab driver is concerned, think carefully, our argument is not only because we want to resist at all costs any proposal from the Republic government that we can criticise, because we are the strongest opposition, we are the only one able to bring you down with power, but things in some legal project that we believe can remain in this form of not touching the amendments. For this we tell you that it will cause many problems, because local kabadiahs and those who are willing to abuse the positions of the authorities in which they are located, as I know it is the case in Kragujevac and other cities and where DS, such as Bogdanovic and Belgrade and other cities, will take advantage and abuse this and take some child a piece of bread out of their mouth, and that is not a small thing. I ask you to tell me today, if possible, because your assistant magistrate Dragomir Vasiljevic told me on 9 May, that he has knowledge and information, everything regarding the KDS is in line with the law, and it is not, and you were right when you claimed it – whether you are staying with these claims and when this great crime in the country will be resolved. That's what the citizens are asking for, and I'm asking for them as a Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20525	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would take the opportunity, since I've been mentioned, to be a replica and, of course, to say something closer to this law. Of course, I have the right to a replica, Mr. Krasic, and I also have the right to talk about my environment where I live, as did Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Of course, many of the things that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic has said stand out, and I agree with some things, and I want to say that the law, article 36, says: "The municipality, or the city, can prescribe closer conditions for carrying out car taxis. The municipality, i.e. the city, in accordance with traffic and technical conditions, shall adopt a programme defining the optimal organisation of a car taxi. “ It is certain that certain conditions should be provided for each activity, and for taxi transportation the city must provide certain conditions. The town of Kragujevac has about 1,000 stops, they are marked, or parking places, and about 80,000 vehicles. The town of Kragujevac has about 700 taxis today, I will allow myself 10% up or down to make mistakes, and simply the city is not in a position to locate such a number of taxi drivers. No one here wants to deal with discrimination, no one here wants to ban the right to work, because everyone has the right to work, but you will allow one local self-government to have the right to regulate one area or one activity in its midst. Therefore, Kragujevac is in a very specific situation, and it is precisely this social situation that requires many people that very simply with small resources that they can carry out that work. And there's a situation where in the town of Kragujevac, the centre is blocked by taxi drivers, that none of the citizens can approach the city center, that there are too many technically invalid vehicles, inadequate vehicles. Of course, what is very important, what should be allowed, is that competition is choking, and it is certain that all these people will come into a very difficult economic and social situation, because with their activity they will inevitably fail. What I'm trying to say is that no one here makes any discrimination with this law, that no one limits the right to work, that every taxi carrier can work on the first, second and third shift, means to hire two other drivers, but we need to know and we need to be honest and say that local self-government can say – we can provide so much and so much during the year... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And for taxi drivers. That local self-government has rights and needs to do and it is in the interest of local self-government, it is in the interest of citizens. As for all these arguments that it provides opportunities for bribery, corruption, if someone goes from themselves, how he did, so he thinks it'll work for others, it's not a good starting point. We're going to the European Union, we want to regulate legal relations in this country... (President: Mr. Vukicevic, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... both bribery and corruption will be eradicated in Serbia in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20527	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20528	It's a good thing we have a bill that paints the practical character of this government that's been working for a year and a half. You see, the reasons for adopting this law are – because there is a legitimate question (and we do not know what question) of the consistency of the positions 2, 3 and 4, and only after a few months. This is a new innovation. We first had the innovation of Mladjan Dinkic when last year the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Excise Act was passed, and he got angry and, of course, returned the law, through changes and additions to return what he had, I think it was the excise on diesel fuel. Because MP Hranislav Peric submitted the amendment and the Assembly adopted it unanimously, and then Mladjan Dinkic whines and says – the IMF is angry and we have to return it. The second innovation was that famous falsification of the Labour Act, and this is already a novelty based on the fact that Article 4 exists, but it is not the result of the intellectual efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a legislator, but the inventiveness of the MPs who proposed the amendment and the Assembly adopted the amendment; the government is angry that the Assembly adopted the amendment, and now the government will return to its own. Here we have an open coalition between the government and local authorities in larger places, not in smaller places, but in these big places where big money is spinning and there are parcels of regulated interests, etc. The ones that aren't in the O.R. today, and they kept the right to come in when it's significant, and they didn't come in today, although this is significant for them, probably for one fraction of those seven factions in the DS, but not to calm them down because I'm not doing a good job... Let's just look back at what's changing now. There is a change in something that should not be touched, because if I turn things around now and ask the question – that, in any case, in the previous amendments to this law, attitude 4, what would be a distraction to the local authorities to apply one principle based on equality, the right to work and freedom of choice of profession, etc. Then we come to the conclusion that she did the job if she proposed the law and the National Assembly passed the law and that's the end. What about law enforcement? Here, let's take a hypothetical that the 4th position didn't even exist, would that mean that local authorities could then violate some constitutionally prescribed principles concerning human freedoms. We come to the conclusion that here, in fact, he doesn't know that in all areas, and you've brought, you're the majority, and the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, and then you wrote that priority has an international right over domestic law, especially those conventions that have been ratified by us. I'm not going to list what's wrong with you, I'm not going to call on the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, but I just want to point out more because of these people who are dealing with this activity and who are now in a very unpleasant situation, because obviously, with mutually conflicted interests, they are now in a position to get different information, like, the government is helping them, local self-government is pressing something, and radicals are now all trying to shake it up and commit themselves to some immoral alleged and illegal business of this area, which is not true. In this case, the change of this law shows that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, those people who design this policy in fact and do not know this area, do not know that conditions for the exercise of some activity can be prescribed by law, cannot be prescribed by a sublegal act, especially one level that is not even government, but local self-government. We don't have an answer to the question whether auto taxi transport is a matter of general interest. If so, in which part it is. Third, is there a little consultation here on the Law on Local Self-Government and in which part local self-government can interfere when it comes to carrying out an economic activity, and this is an economic activity? Finally, a special area unknown to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is concluded on the basis of such draft laws, is – in our legal system, the pursuit of this commission of action is the activity of personal working by means of funds in our citizens. Now, something reported in the meantime that, based on the registration and the license plate and the fact that someone is registered and that a taxi is engaged in the operation, he is achieving some benefits in the import of vehicles and loans, etc., so there is another new right that whoever is leaving and losing his job can use some benefits and start with some work, now it's chaos and confusion. Now we come into a situation where the government tells us – we don't want to apply normative law that was passed a month ago, and I call it anti-monopol law. In this law, it is said, when it comes to action, that this state has defined that the issue of monopoly regulates competition, in the predominantly part, and in the second part, the ban on behaviour that violates competition. It's a much wider problem that the government doesn't understand from the personal interest of some people who are at the head of some associations or those who think that they can cheer and dress etc. Now, in order not to criticize radicals for criticism, if they are now allegedly pro-forms in favour of freedom of action, I must draw your attention to the fact that there are three approaches to this problem. The government has not defined any of the three approaches known. That's the problem. It's that weird mix. There's something mixed up and nothing's done. We now have a situation that if a man wants to deal with this action, he has to pray to God that someone with a plate dies, that someone should sign up, and then the president of the Legislative Committee comes out here and tells us that these are the conditions and that there is a possibility that conditions can be prescribed. Yes, there are possibilities and there is an obligation for certain conditions, technical conditions and other conditions to perform some work, which must be fulfilled in order to obtain permission or to be entered into to perform that activity. What do conditions have to do with the conditions for temporary activity such as taxi transport? He messed up his grandmothers and frogs, he totally messed up the pots, two different topics he tried to compare. The student enters and does not exercise economic activity, but competes to be educated, and the taxi driver, if registered and registered somewhere, acquires the right to act. It's two different things, it's grandmothers and frogs. But we have such a president of the Legislative Committee. He would define those conditions somehow, as he knows and can. Furthermore, interestingly enough, several directions exist. The government could define one concept and say - this activity can carry out a registered legal person, and prescribe the conditions that should be met by a legal person who needs to employ an adequate number of people, have appropriate technical means and carry out that work. But that's another concept. In our case, the Law on Personal Work stipulates that taxi activity is something that natural persons do, while fulfilling certain conditions and enrolling in the relevant register. What Bogdanovic predicts is the closest thing: that there are several licensed associations, probably in the future several legal entities, companies that would have to meet those standards, etc. This isn't where it even started. If you go with the concept that you need to allow this job to be done by individuals who meet certain conditions, then it is really illusory and to think that some sublegal act can limit the performance of that activity. Just now, one MP said that local self-government was authorized to prescribe action. If it is authorized to prescribe action, why does it not prescribe how nuclear power is produced? Why does local self-government not prescribe how to produce and what conditions should be met by aircraft flying over Belgrade? Well, he can't. If conditions are prescribed for the exercise of some activity, it must be regulated by law, it cannot be subject to sublegal law. Neither Bogdanovic, who allegedly is angry, cobajagi, nor any other mayor, nor any local self-government to prescribe. Here through the form of the program... You see, "In the course of the adoption of the programme of the 2nd position of this member of the municipality, or city, they have no right to restrict the number of persons... ". What's wrong with the fact that it's in the law? I just explained. And if this isn't in the law, it exists and has to be applied. As far as you're wrong, I'll tell you one case: the European Court of Human Rights verdict, where two English citizens wanted to open a private English school in Gibraltar. (President: Mr. Krassic, time is up.) Of course, they got it. It was then found that no limit could be made when it comes to the exercise of activity. But this government government you see how you write -- delete, coordinate some interests, argue here, attack here, on the same trail. I guess that'll end too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20529	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move on to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE REFERENCE OF THE TRUE ABOUT NEW KIDS MISSED FROM PARENTS IN MORE CITY IN SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision made by MPs Živodarka Dacin, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Snezana Stojanović-Plasić, Miroslav Nedeljković and Milan Dimitrijevic. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does a representative of the Proposer National MP, Živodarka Dacin, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does MP Miroslav Markicevic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. I'm setting a break to 16.50 hours, when we'll continue to work in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work according to the Rules of Procedure. Since 24 hours have elapsed since the principle of debate ended, we will move to discussion in particular. Before we cross, because of the schedule of your time, I'd like to pass on all the information relating to the work of the Assembly. Since a large number of MPs informed me of their duties after 18.00 hours and since we cannot guarantee television transmission, today's work day will end at 18.00 hours and we will continue the debate in details Tuesday at 10.00 hours. At the same time, all those preparing to work on the amendments, I would like to inform them that the second item of the agenda has been withdrawn at the government's session of the Republic of Serbia, so that everyone who planned to prepare for work on the amendments can take a break. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE VETERINARSTV (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Petrovic, Arsen Kurjački, Dragoslav Milković, Milorad Krstin, Dr Zoran Masic and Prvoslav Savic, as well as the Committee on Agriculture. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the amendments were withdrawn by Parliamentarian Arsen Kurjački to the title above Articles 30 and 30 and by Parliament member Milorad Krstin to Article 30. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. Just one more announcement: Parliament Speaker will definitely schedule a new session for Thursday October 20th, and all parliamentary groups will be informed of the list of laws planned to prepare new amendments in due time, so that it will not be too late. Here you go, Mr. Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20531	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as I can tell, the minister is not present, so he's not interested in this law. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the Proposal for a Veterinary Law, which is to Article 3rd point 36) where we demand that it be changed and read "animal wastes are components of the animal body which are not intended or are safe for human consumption, confiscat, animal corpses and parts of the carcasses of animals". The government did not accept this amendment with the reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term "animal waste" in the bill is defined in a order that is more logical. According to our proposal, however, it turns out to be more logical, purely out of spite, since it is the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, it is not accepted and I am very surprised that it is not here to explain why it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20532	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Since the government has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20533	The proposal for a veterinary law as the minimum organisation of veterinary services provides for veterinary clinics. The draft law does not provide for veterinary clinics to sell medicinal products and feed for animals. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16(1) to add after point 3) a new point 4) – a veterinary clinic can traffic on small veterinary medicinal products and food for animals. The government has not accepted this amendment. It says – the amendment is not accepted because it is necessary to have special veterinary and sanitary conditions and professional conditions for the marketing of a few veterinary medicinal products and food products for the purpose of carrying out these tasks. In case the infirmary meets these conditions, it may traffic on a few veterinary medicinal products and food for animals. However, the bill does not stand that way. Veterinary clinics are already meeting the conditions, doing drug trafficking on a small scale, having rooms, and I'm surprised the government didn't accept it, and the minister isn't here to explain it. In undeveloped municipalities with a small number of inhabitants, veterinary clinics will not be privatised purely for economic reasons. They will remain state and public veterinary hospitals, so there will be problems if they are not allowed to sell drugs. I'm surprised the government didn't accept this amendment. It was not accepted purely out of spite, because it is the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. That the amendment was the G17 plus party, they accepted their amendments, but in our version, so they changed them a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20534	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the Minister of Trade does not know Serbia, so he proposed the law he proposed, the Energy Minister also, and not the Minister of Capital Investment, which we had the opportunity to criticise this morning because of that bill he made, but the Minister of Agriculture must know Serbia. It is incomprehensible that in the mountain-mounted area, where our villages are lagging behind and where the possibility of opening a veterinary clinic has been scarce, that this clinic is not allowed to, besides the rest, as requested by MP Milkovic... He is like a veterinarian, as a man living in such an area, certainly the best way to see the situation, the problem, and he wanted this amendment to help improve the law in that part, to correct the injustice that is done to citizens living in the mountainous and mountainous area. It is unacceptable that a man must go 20, 30, or 40 kilometers in order to buy a medicine in the nearest town pharmacy or veterinary pharmacy, while at the same time having a hospital in the village, having a veterinarian in the village, has an expert who can give that injection or medicine. It's been a while since everything had to go to town. Our villages have become old by the way. You're forcing an old man of 70 years to go 40 kilometers into town for a simple drug and a veterinary clinic under his nose. I understand that the Minister of Health is deafening when it comes to pharmacies in rural hospitals, but this is really necessary and I think this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20536	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 30 and Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. Since the government has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dr Zoran Masic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Proposal for a Veterinary Act. The amendment concerns the tasks to be carried out by the veterinary chamber. Since the chamber is an association or institution of all veterinarians working in the veterinary profession, among other tasks to be carried out by the Chamber, the draft law provides that the chamber should propose the prices of veterinary services. The substance of the amendments that I have submitted implies that the veterinary chamber determines the lowest prices for veterinary services and proposes the prices of veterinary services to be performed by both veterinary services and veterinary cells and laboratory tests, which will also be carried out by specialist veterinary establishments under the animal health care programme. I believe that there was absolutely a basis to accept such an amendment, because the chamber, under the bill, has the right to determine the prices of veterinary services, but certainly the requirement of the veterinary profession was that the chamber would determine the lowest prices of veterinary services, because these services could not be of the same price throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is precisely confirmed by the reason given by the applicant, which is why he rejected the amendment, because it states that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the exercise of veterinary activities is an exercise of activity on the market, where prices determine the supply and demand, or the quality of the service, and by proposing the price of veterinary services, the chambers have the possibility of affecting the level of the same. We have so far had the situation that just the Veterinary Chamber, which otherwise exists as an organ of veterinary profession under the existing law, established a unique price list of all veterinary services, which were in some way binding for all veterinary cells. It has been shown that this is not good, precisely because some cells can provide a higher quality of service, are better equipped, have an X-ray, X-ray, hematological and biochemical laboratories, surgical offices; therefore, such veterinary cells qualify for the possibility and higher service prices; ultimately, they have a higher number of performers and should simply earn for all those working at the veterinary station. For these reasons, the profession proposed that the Chamber have the authority to propose the lowest price, and precisely these market conditions and competition of providing services to determine the highest price level. Normally, the service user will accordingly define whether it will go for a quality service or go to someone who can provide the basic service, only medical treatment without being able to provide more quality service. The second part of the amendment I submitted concerns the right of the Veterinary Chamber to be a partner to the Ministry of Agriculture in determining the price of services provided by the veterinary service through the implementation of the animal health care programme, which is primarily the extraction of blood for diagnostic testing and TB, a test on tuberculosis. It was mainly the work carried out by the veterinary service; veterinarians from the veterinary cells and veterinary clinics worked from the scales of the programme, and other, diagnostic part or laboratory examinations were carried out by specialist veterinary institutes and these two veterinary scientific institutes. I thought so, and so is the opinion of colleagues working on implementing a programme of measures, which is otherwise funded by the state in the budget, that the Chamber should have a partnership with the Ministry and the Government precisely in determining these prices and making budgets for each business year. In order to agree on the prices of these studies in the autumn and to achieve consensus on this basis and to implement the programme of animal health measures in a good way. Therefore, I find it unacceptable that the argument given by the Government is that in terms of price formation under the programme of measures to be financed from the budget, there is no justification that for this type of service the price forms the Chamber, but responsibility for the height and method of using these funds falls on the burden of the Ministry. The amendment does not require the chamber to form those prices, but only to be a partner in setting those prices with the ministry. I am now asking the Ministry and Minister, unfortunately, not her, nor my colleagues Krnjajic, as director of the Administration, but I am asking from this pay phone and them and the Government what will happen when the programme of measures is adopted, when there is a complete private veterinary service, veterinary station, and veterinarians estimate that this price that the state in the budget has set and which the Ministry has set for implementing the programme of measures for them is unprofitable and that they will not work that part of the job. Who's gonna do that? Today, the Ministry and Government can behave in this way, while we still have public or state service, but within a year, when a full public veterinary service, veterinary stations, where the state will only be in areas and municipalities where privates will not be interested in opening up veterinary stations, I ask what can happen in such a situation if these services are not satisfied with the price offered by the Ministry of Implementation of the Programme of Measures. Also, specialist institutes; but unfortunately, they will remain a certain number of years certainly state; some will most likely be a longer time period of state, they can be forced to do so, but it will be a problem who will take the material from those animals to be subjected to diagnostic tests from the health care programme. Therefore, the veterinary chamber, as an organ and body of veterinarians, which should protect the interest of veterinarians, should absolutely have the right and the possibility of partnership with the Ministry and Government precisely when determining the prices of services to be operated for the State. Otherwise, if there is no consensus and the service is dissatisfied with the price, there may be such danger and the possibility that a state programme cannot be implemented. I think there was a basis to accept that. During the debate on the Committee on the amendment, ministry colleagues justified that the chamber would propose and determine the price by statute, but also the agriculture ministry agreed on the statute. And, one is the price of veterinary services that are past the health care measures programme, but for the amendment measure programme, it has no substance and does not prefer that the chamber be the express participant i.e. that it determines the price, rather than only having a partnership relationship with the Ministry and that the prices of these veterinary services in the framework of the action programme are jointly determined. I must express my regret that this amendment has not been accepted, as I would like to publicly express my gratitude for the understanding of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, which has withdrawn from the procedure a bill which we have said absolutely has no basis for, in this form, being considered in this high house and as such to be brought in. It is good that she respected, above all, the suggestions of us from the Serbian Radical Party, because we are the only ones who have proposed amendments to this law and have disputed the need to adopt such a legal act. I am pleased that this bill has been withdrawn from the procedure, and I hope, if the government is defined to prepare a new one, that it will be prepared in a much better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20538	Thank you. I thank you from this high place for your support of the high home. Here you go, Mr. Kronic. You asked for a word on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20539	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few words about the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Dr. Zoran Masic. I think the point is two key words. Article 38(1) of the Law states that the veterinary chamber proposes the prices of veterinary services. Of course, it is understood that one of the entities that affects price formation is. In the amendment of my esteemed colleague, it sets the lowest prices. The difference between the proposal and the determination is significant. It's normal for someone to pay for it to have an impact on pricing. I just wanted to say so much – I don't think it's the same thing to suggest and determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20540	Thank you. Replica, Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20541	The clarifications are working, let me just say, Mr. Kronic, what you've brought out doesn't seem to fit much. The proposal is that the chamber determines the lowest prices for veterinary services, and refers to services which are not covered by the programme of the health care measure, that it proposes the prices of veterinary services and laboratory testing from the programme of measures. The proposal is that the chamber only proposes to the Ministry and normally implies further harmonisation, and sets the lowest prices for other services that are not part of the programme of measures, so we probably didn't understand each other. The truth is, in Article 38. The bill states that the chamber proposes the prices of veterinary services. This is at point 8 and here is a proposal to determine the lowest prices, and it proposes prices for the programme of measures. I think that's the misunderstanding, most likely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20542	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Dragan Petrovic submitted the amendment to Article 96. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 96. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Machine. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20543	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment submitted by Mr. Dragan Petrovic is essentially what I suggested during the first debate and in the amendment, which unfortunately the government did not accept. My pledge was to correct the text in Article 96, to be in the epizootic unit, which is the area of one or several municipalities, can carry animals without the obligation to register their means of transport with the Ministry of Agriculture. I am pleased that the amendment has been accepted by Mr Petrovic, because I think it is essential for our farmers and cattlemen that, when transporting animals within a municipality to markets where animals are traded, there will be no obligation to register transport funds with the Ministry of Agriculture, but those means of transport must meet minimum technical and hygiene conditions. The point of my commitment and my amendment is exactly that. I remain in the view that the formulation that I have given and offered to the Ministry and Government is more complete and comprehensive, because I also suggested that when means of transport must be registered – if transported from one epizootic area to another, this should imply registration of means of transport, although in the last position of this member it is said that through the Regulation or sublegal act, the Ministry will determine the way and procedure of registration of means of transport and what is meant under technical and hygiene conditions. Just as long as such a rule does not see the light of day will continue to be a delusion among a large number of agricultural producers and herdsmen, then at the veterinary inspection and, ultimately, with the police to control these means of transport whether, for example, from one municipality to another, or take an example from India if animals are transported to Ruma to a Romanian fair, whether this means of transport should be registered or not. So until the epizootic units and epizootic areas are defined, this legal solution will continue to be the dilemma that means of transport should be registered with the Ministry, which can be used for the transport of animals without prior registration by the Ministry. In any case, I would like to welcome the Ministry's good intentions that at least this amendment, which Mr Petrovic tabled, has amended the basic text of the bill. And that's good to start with, and we're going to wait for a rule that's going to regulate it closer, so we're going to eventually propose to amend this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20544	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Please, Mr. Markovic has the same word for the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let's clear up a few dilemmas, because we've been discussing this law for a week, or since we voted on it, so the law has fallen and here we are again, and we and our citizens of Serbia have been harassing to discuss it again, and the bill has not changed at all. What was painful in Article 96, and what remains painful unless the amendment of the People's MP, Prof. Zoran Mašić, is adopted and that Serbian citizens living in areas and dealing with agriculture, or livestock, will feel the most about their skin, is precisely the first and last position of this member, i.e. the first and fourth position of Article 96. "The transport of animals is carried out in vehicles that meet technical and hygiene conditions... "It's normal and it's been done so far. In order to transport animals, it must be a pathway made so that it does not miss the organic waste that these animals produce during transport. What was painful then, and here it is now, and then I'll say why, that's -- and that's what was registered in the Ministry. The last position states: "The Minister is closer to prescribing the technical and hygiene conditions that must meet the vehicles referred to in Article 1, the way they are registered, as well as the veterinary-sanitary conditions for the facilities referred to in Article 3. "We again bring one person who is a civil servant to the level of the institution and to the level of the organ. The minister is a civil servant, and the ministry is a state body. Therefore, the ministry prescribes rather than -- the minister prescribes. But that's the least important thing in this article. Much more important is something else, a dance about the amendment proposed by Professor Zoran Masic and the amendment proposed by Dragan Petrovic. The first part of the amendment by Professor Zoran Mašić and Amendment Dragan Petrovic are identical, as it is said – after the word "animals" in attitude 1. the words "from one epizootic area to another epizootic area" are added. The second part of the amendment submitted by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić reads - the transport of animals within the epizootic unit is carried out by vehicles that meet the hygiene and technical conditions. The part of the amendment was not adopted with this proposal submitted by Dragan Petrovic. However, there is one more thing that should concern all of us and those to whom this law will apply tomorrow. What are the limits of the epizootic area, which determines those limits, whether the borders of the municipality are, because if the Ministry comes to mind to propose the borders to be municipalities, then we will come to an incredible situation that, say, Ruma has a fair, there are sellers and buyers at the fair from all over the region and we have Irig, which is eight kilometers away from the resort in Ruma; if Irig as a municipality of epizootiological area, this man has to meet all of these conditions of Article 96. That means his vehicle has to be registered with the Ministry, etc. That goes on to mean he won't be able to load the pig in the freezer, so he can drive him out to the market, that he won't be able to get on the tractor in that basket, as our peasants usually carry cattle from house to market, but he'll have to get that haircut and that cage to register at the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a lot of indetermination, and it's not naive at all, because when you turn the next members where the criminal provisions are, he says -- he's going to be punished by 100,000, or a million dinars, who commits a violation of Article 96; well, the peasant chased nine pigs into the market, all cost him 90,000 dinars in total, and he's got to get another 10,000 dinars out of his pocket to pay the fine, because he didn't register his trailer at the Ministry. She is registered in the SUP, she has that green plate, she's allowed to participate in traffic, but she's not registered in the ministry, so he's going to have to come home, another pig to load and give to the ministry. Since our peasants don't have the money, but have the goods, then the Ministry will have to make special rainfalls, logs and stables to collect that cattle that will be collected from those fines that will be charged by peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20546	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20547	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few words in short, since there were words here about the registration of means of transport. Please, in the letter of the law, it says they are registered at the ministry, and Mr Petrovic's adopted amendment says no animals that are within the same epizootic unit are recorded. Therefore, no registration, is registered under the traffic safety law. Today, vehicles carrying animals outside the epizootic areas are naturally controlled for disinfection, etc. Those same regulations apply today. The adoption of this amendment does not even record those vehicles in the Ministry; it is about registration, not registrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20548	Thank you Mr. Kronic and thank Mr. Mašić who explained the same thing before. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. I'm sorry, he didn't mention you in any way. He was talking about the amendment, please, he was talking about Mr Petrovic's amendment, and you were talking about Mr Masic's amendment and there's no reason, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20549	Just a minute, Mr. President, everything's fine, they don't register, but they register, and that records are paid to the Ministry, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20550	Thank you for your clarification. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic to article 115. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20551	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted an amendment to Article 115. A bill where we predict that after the word "remembrance," we add the words "clonal embryos". An explanation of why I propose this - the proposed amendment should clearly prohibit uncontrollable imports of cloned embryos, as this may have negative consequences for the farming of Serbia's country. The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation, so it says: the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, under the term "fertilised egg cell" all stages of embryo development, regardless of the way in which the embryo is fertilised, so there is no overallity of the special separation of the concept of " cloned embryos". By refusing this amendment of ours, we will be in such a situation that everything and everything will be imported. You yourself contribute to this law to make an affair. It was a sugar affair, it was an affair around the soybean; by not accepting this amendment of ours, it will eventually come at the time of the cloned embryo affair, because today everything and everything in this country is being imported. Therefore, the minister is not here, we were competing on the Committee, not accepted, however, if the proposal were G17 plus, it would surely be accepted, and since the amendment comes from the Serbian Radical Party, of course it is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20552	According to the same amendment, the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, has the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20553	Dear People's MPs, at the very beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction that the draft law on the laboratory agency has been withdrawn, because I have had the freedom here to declare that it is one of the most harmful laws offered to us by the MPs to adopt it, the most harmful in Serbia's citizens' health. Thank God, she seems to have worked out the consciousness of the Serbian government, that the argument that has been made here, unfortunately, only by one parliamentary group, could in some way adopt and accept and prevent the adoption of such a harmful law. Please, let me look back at this article 115. We proposed, so, in addition to prohibiting imports and exports of seeds for artificial insemination, we add, and cloned embryos. We get an answer that says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, under the term "fertile egg cell" all stages of embryo development, regardless of how fertilization is done, so there is no wholeness of special separation of the concept of "clonal embryo". So, one funny and layman's explanation that deserves a single comment. First, why don't you consult the profession? Did someone at the Academy tell you to answer like this? It doesn't have to be from the Academy of Sciences where you have academics who speak clearly and they would tell you what the process of fertilization or fertilization is and what the process of cloning is. That's two different things. Genetic engineering is not necessarily the work of assisted fertilisation or fertilisation. That's two different terms. Namely, when you say - fertilized egg cells; biology is the heart of science, veterinary, agricultural and medical; it should have basic knowledge or have elemental ignorance and give such an explanation. It's said to mean all embryonic stages. That's not true. The fertilized egg is a biological entity a pair of excelances and a legal entity a pair of excellencies. All European laws have this activity and they have also included assisted fertilisation and fertilised egg is a special unit that has nothing to do with this other. When a fertilized egg cell is divided (and now I'm supposed to be giving you a lecture here), it's a blastula. When there's a lot of cells, it's moral. According to you, the fetus in the womb is also fertilized by an egg cell, or it's one stage. That's ridiculous. How can you give these ridiculous explanations and avoid the essence, because watch out, this 115th member of yours says when import is banned – so not all fertilized eggs (both towards us and cloned fertilized eggs) but if they are bacterialally infected and biologically harmful. What do we think? Why did we make this proposal? We believe that cloned fertilized egg cells are dangerous at the moment. We believe that genetic engineering has given species natural, both plants and animal organisms, at the very least untested safety. Since 1996, these organisms have been massively applied and it is a short period of time to determine their harmful fact. Yesterday I warned you that if you don't already have the expertise to consult when you're talking about such important and serious things, you must also have the opposite argument and consider and respect. I told you, take it, so read a book that says what are the dangers of genetic engineering. We have a soy here that's been implanted on us and we know exactly who put it in and who stands for genetically modified soybean. We know and they told you yesterday that already 50% of the food products on our market have the most likely substances that are the product of genetic modification, because of the corn, because of the syrup used in the conditor industry and that I don't list everything. That's our reality. I told you yesterday, in Serbia today we import 250,000 tons of genetically modified soybeans. I also told you that Surchin has 50 acres of sown genetically modified soybean. I said that there are more than 350 acres in Machva, sown by a genetically modified strain, which you have discovered and which you have not destroyed, and you are required by law to destroy. You're playing hard with the health of Serbian citizens. Would you like me to read you something else? Our minister is not here, and he should have read it. She goes to Zagreb often, then continues to America. Here is a beautiful book from this year, 2005, "Do Croatian genetically modified crops and whether Croatia will follow the path of Argentina" by Professor Marijan Jost, the edition of "Mother of Croatia" this year. What would you read there? carcinogenic fact of genetically modified crops in animals, numbered, professional literature. Why don't you read it? Then in such an inappropriate way, you reject one of our amendments, which is based, and we're not saying this because we're smart and because we think we've drunk the minds of the world. The Serbian Radical Party draws on its knowledge or ignorance from experts from professional services. We have consulted a wide range of geneticists and people dealing with these problems to tell you today. And whatever you do, sit down and keep your mouth shut. Shame on you. There's no answer. Say, "You lie to the radicals. Say, you are destructive. You say we're destructive, and you find the arguments that will kill what I've shown here, this data; you tell us where you have better data. America has entered the war with Europe because of genetically modified food and is asking for that food to pass here. She advocates, and there are big problems. They defend European countries as much as they can. They didn't even accept not to use that food in their own countries. Most of them are. If you ask the citizens of Europe, 80% of them are against genetically modified food. What are the executives – the World Trade Organisation or their peoples, the health of their peoples? That's what you need to ask yourself when you're proposing laws like this. Please, no misunderstandings, yesterday I said that the veterinary law, which is essentially a good law, and we need it, took the liberty of taking over the jurisdiction of the sanitary law. That's why you refuse these solutions, and that's why you give these things, and they're not lay, they're funny reasons, that you take away what you're not responsible for and for what you don't understand and you don't know. I don't wonder why that's the case, when it's run by the Ministry by whoever's leading, when the minister's been a federal man since 2000, Mr. Vitosevic, who plays a significant role today. I'm not surprised when sanitary protection in this country is run by whoever's leading, who's a doctor of family medicine with 180 hours of Andrija Stampar School for Family Medicine. Serbia's sanitary profession leads, and then we can fall for this and be offered this. Please, do you want to go to Europe? I read to you yesterday, "Karl Bro" said -- everything you make, it's your political decision, we don't interfere with what responsibilities the Ministry of Health will have, which will have the Ministry of Agriculture. Here's that document. You know him well. I want him to tell you this, too. Slovenia is probably a country that is in Europe, you will agree with me. What does Slovenia say about this? What's all the jurisdiction of health care? Look what's been numbered. Only three in Serbia. You took everything. And you vets are now taking jurisdiction from medicine. If we're talking about food, since you say for this law in the introduction, in an explanation – quality and food safety is the basic reason and preventing the transfer of infectious diseases to people, don't worry about it. Take care of these animals, be human to them. Don't introduce terms - human slaughter and human killing. Our profession has good terms, better terms that mean it. I want to tell you, when it comes to that food, what the Slovenian law says, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. It says this - to provide healthy proper food and products, as well as materials that come into contact with food, the following types of control are carried out: first internal, then official health control over food, drinking water, food additives, the composition of foods that may have an impact on the biological and energy value of food, nutrients for the enrichment of food, products and substances that come into contact with food, and are doing health, except for the controls set out in point 3 of this attitude. Here's point 3 - official production control, not traffic, and you want to control traffic. He can't. That's what doctors have to control and do in all orderly countries. They are carried out by veterinary inspectors on the production of food of animal origin. So that's the law, and here, I don't want to tell you the number, he's at my place, and I can show you, that's page 6,949 from 2000, and there's a new variant from 2002. What are you doing? You're breaking up the sanitary protection 100 years old, with a long tradition. Example: Your labs you imagined to start and never heard of exist. The former state health lab on the Surcinal Road, which has an ISO certificate, in which is invested $500 million for equipment, what about it? Who tried violently to get in and out, and why isn't she working? The one who is equipped, who is qualified to control the health of food and resources. Answer that, that's what we're asking, that's what you owe. The Serbian people are in a miserable position. These strangers you're hiding don't say what you're doing, they won't stand behind all these things that you're standing behind. The only way and the only way, I think, to come better for all of us is to still have parliamentary elections, to have patriotic forces, to those who care and a child on the street that goes with his mother, and a pensioner who's tortured and today, when they come to power, then we'll have to suspend many of these bad laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20554	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please listen carefully to these arguments, and I also ask that everything from which knowledge is being delivered be delivered, therefore, all of Croatian science to be delivered from Slovenian laws as well. I think we all have to respect each other. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by National MP Dr Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 124, where I have proposed that in the process of issuing import licences and animal transport licences, this applies above all to imports of animals, products of animal origin, food of animal origin and animal food should be subject to prior laboratory or diagnostic examination. It means that permission implies mandatory control after entering our country. The proposer of this law allows for control. I have repeatedly explained why I feel that what I have proposed with the amendment should be adopted. I do regret that the promoter, the Ministry and the Government, did not accept this. Especially for me, as a man who deals with the profession and who is doing laboratory research for all these 26 - 27 years, how I work in the profession, the explanation that has been given, and I have to read it, so let our expert audience hear whether it really is, with apologies for those who gave this proposal for an explanation, whether it was too much or not. It says: "Amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the laboratory and diagnostic examination of animals, products of animal origin, food of animal origin, food for animals and accompanying objects is subsequently carried out on the basis of the risk analysis carried out, based on the criteria set out in paragraph 4 of this Article and not on each import of the consignment. That provision also provides for the harmonisation of provisions relating to the issue of import licences with OIE recommendations, international conventions and other international agreements." The risk analysis, in this proposal for a law in paragraph 4, literally states, I read as set out in point 1) of the bill, means that the examination of what is imported into the country will be defined, saying: "a purpose for which products of animal origin, food of animal origin or animal food will be used". What does that mean? 2) "the geographical and other characteristics of the exporting country, i.e. the countries of transport affecting the occurrence, spread and survival of the disease; 3) the existence of an area without infectious animal diseases; 4) the identity of the veterinary service of the exporting country and veterinary services in the Republic; 5) the identity of the measures in the Republic and the exporting country, i.e. in the country of transport, in the prevention of infectious animal diseases". First of all, what's listed here in paragraph 4 can't be a serious risk assessment and analysis. Let's start with that. There is no real definition of what everything can do as a risk assessment factor, especially "the purpose for which products are to be used". Whether it goes to pâtés or sausages, I think it doesn't matter. If it is products of animal origin, it should be controlled, not to mention live animals that we import. Yesterday, in the principle debate, I presented fresh data, which I came to from my colleagues who work in certain institutions, about what kind of cattle are used for breeding and which should be given to private owners and which diseases they are infected with. It was just enough for the Ministry and the proposer of this law to impose a commitment, and I suggested, just as long as we're in transition, that we control at least what we can, and we can control a lot of things. It's from a country that has developed livestock, which has a much higher level of livestock production than we do, that we've imported the throats infected with diseases that shouldn't be represented. Now we'll send those throats to the slaughter, and we'll pay them there as infertile. Whether the one who imported it made a commitment to return it to that country, but it was a disgrace from that country that exported it and from us. If we hadn't controlled it, if it hadn't been imposed, that kind of throat could have gone into breeding and spread the disease into animals. Today, when we have this dangerous infectious disease -- animal influenza, which threatens, I must admit that the Ministry has made a solution to the ban on the import of live animals from countries where this has occurred and livestock products. That's quite all right, but I can cite x examples from my own practice, since I'm in animal nutrition, how many imported fish flour contingents with an increased amount of heavy metals, say, cadmium and mercury, or soy or soy juice with the presence of mycotoxin, that it's not controlled. Until this law, every solution that was issued for import, which was issued under federal law, meant to be controlled, whether it was live animals, animal food, animal food, anything used in our country, meant obligation. By passing this new law, in order to agree and to comply with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation, we place one "can be ordered to examine", which will be the goodwill of the one issuing the solution or signing, so someone will be ordered, since those costs are paid by the importer. So someone will be, as an importer, burdened with the obligation to examine everything that is prescribed by us, and some importer can pass and import without examining his or her animal food or live animals. I don't think it's right that this amendment is not accepted, especially as the following paragraph 6 states: "If veterinary control is established that previous consignments from the exporting country, i.e. from a specific establishment of origin, were safe for use and followed by correct international veterinary certificates, import and transport licences shall be issued without laboratory control of consignments of products of animal origin, food... "and so on. So first, we have to control it or we need to systematically control it. If proven truly and proved to be that reliable supplier or exporter, then freed him at some point. Such a definition in this article gives the possibility of a discretionary decision to the Ministry to which a mandatory examination will be ordered and what will be done and what will not have to be diagnosed or laboratory examinations. I don't think this is how serious law regulates this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-13-0.u20556	Anyone else by this amendment? You have two minutes. Is that enough for you, or are you gonna pass it on for Tuesday? The SRS parliamentary group under this amendment has two minutes left. We continue the debate in detail Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the electronic counting system is not working right now and don't insert your cards. The professional services count the MPs present, and we will begin the work, and the electronic system will be repaired. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 105 MPs attend the session, but based on the number of professional services, I would like to inform you that 90 MPs are present and that we can begin our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Milorad Belic and Nikola Jovanovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on VETERINARSTV (resumption in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the search for the amendment to Article 124, which was submitted by MP Dr Zoran Mašić, and that the People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward on this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Mr. Arsic and all the other speakers later, we're going to have to use this time machine, but I think we're going to be correct with each other.
