ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21851	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than a third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of MP Ksenija Milivojevic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL FOR THE SCHOOL OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT The Word has a National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21852	Should I wait for this village or start the discussion? Have a good trip. You're free to go. You finished your day's work. You have no obligation. Mr. Mihailovich, Markovic escapes because he knows what he did last night. Don't mention the journals, you took $15 million, and we only took three. Then come out and explain it. So, you're off the hook, you don't have to attend, you don't care. So, Mr. Mihailovic, Predrag Markovic demonstrated yesterday that this Rules of Procedure and the Constitution is something that does not bind him, even when he is the author. Yesterday, in a hurry, until you were able to figure out how to ensure a permanent presence of 126 MPs in this room, he swept through his teeth and through that beard, to put in an emergency procedure an SRS proposal to launch a procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic. He finished his vote in a hurry. When he is told that if he uses something that is in the Rules of Procedure, then all the suggestions for an emergency procedure should be put before the Assembly, that the National Assembly should make a statement. He cheated on us, said it was the only proposal for an emergency procedure. I remind you, I know you don't have it on you, that on November 11th, this year, the government sent a bill on banks, with a proposal to, according to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall bring an emergency procedure. That wasn't put on a plea yesterday to the National Assembly. Why wasn't it put in? Because Markovic interprets a letter from the government, which ends in a position that reads: "According to the provisions of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is proposing to the National Assembly that the Bill on Banks be classified as the 5th item of the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, which was called for Monday, November 14, 2005." When you take the Rules of Procedure and look at what's written in article 92, you will see that this has nothing to do with Article 92, which means that those in the Government don't know about Markovic's Rules of Procedure. Article 92 states: "The National Assembly shall decide, in particular, on any proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda". Yesterday we had a proposed agenda for the Fourth Session. Then he says, "The new points entered into the agenda on the basis of a proposal to supplement the agenda," and then "the proposal to merge" is not true, there's no need for it to stand here, "or an emergency procedure proposal - to be included in the agenda. "So only after the National Assembly has completed its statement of urgency can Article 92 be activated. Markovic severely broke that law. Why? To go to Boris Tadic, because he counts that Boris Tadic has more than 5% of the popularity, since the G17 does not have one percent. There isn't! What irregular status is the National Assembly on the agenda – the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, you who are talking about the subject, take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and read Article 126. It says, "The Constitutional Court has nine judges. The function of the Constitutional Court is permanent. The President of the Constitutional Court is elected from the order of judges to five years and cannot be re-elected." In Markovic's Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which of course applies 'bratski' and Boris Tadic, it is written, when it comes to the Constitutional Court election, that is Article 184, the following: 'Proposal for candidates for President and Judges of the Constitutional Court... "The President of the Constitutional Court is not elected by the National Assembly, but by the Constitutional Court. So Markovic also tramples the Constitution, in a coalition with Tadic, tramples the Rules of Procedure, which he has brought, to make the Assembly effective. Since, Mr. Mihailovic, you did not do the injury but Markovic, I do not think you are competent to give an answer. Regardless of the answer you give, I propose that the National Assembly be heard about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I call on MPs to read the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, because we will not allow the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to be applied in the way most people decide. This majority has shown that she is unable to interpret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21853	The assembly will speak in voting day. Indeed, I haven't prepared this session, and I couldn't even answer your questions. The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21854	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to the Parliament's business obligation to set the agenda, put on the agenda the SRS proposal, our parliamentary group, to discuss the recall of Boris Tadic, the DS president, who falsely presents himself as the president of all Serbian citizens, would be simply correct, before we discuss his proposal for the Constitutional Court judges' election, if we had cleared this proposal of Serbian radicals. Let's see if we have most of the initiative to move forward with Boris Tadic's recall. Because if that's the case, then it's pointless for this motion to elect the Constitutional Court judges. Which is why Predrag Markovic gave it up, I don't know, but obviously, even as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in this assembly is not applicable and is not valid. We have had various interesting assets of so-called democracy since 2000; swearing to the rule of law, swearing to the functioning of the system, to strengthen institutions. On the other hand, we had something that was, I guess, unrecorded in no serious legal state, that Serbia works (if it can be said to work) for a year and a half without the Constitutional Court. So there are some things that happen to us that the majority of the assembly, and now it has passed, as well as the media, are closing, that the citizens of Serbia are not in a position to get acquainted with such important things in the functioning of the Serbian state. It is not the only flow of democracy that is very negative in relation to Serbian citizens. Why is that, when it comes to the lack of a Constitutional Court? We know exactly what's been going on these five years. How many unconstitutional decisions and laws have been made in this House. However, more in that previous assembly, but then it was possible to pass unconstitutional laws, because then the congregation majority knew that there was no Constitutional Court, that there was no one to assess constitutionality and legality, and then they did whatever it occurred to anyone. Then it was possible to vote in a remote vote, to vote without the presence of MPs in the O.R., then it was possible that someone who was the minister said he should return the death penalty for 15 minutes, I guess that he kills who he thinks he should kill, then there were possible various thefts in this parliament in various ways. It's just, there's been a lot going on, we didn't look like the rule of law. Unfortunately, we're still a long way from the rule of law today. The SRS has submitted many initiatives to examine the constitutionality and legality of various acts, mainly the laws passed in this parliament. There were very strange things going on at the Constitutional Court. Let's say, for some law, firstly, if the SRS initiative is in question for two years, the Constitutional Court does not think to discuss the initiative. If it is necessary, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, to conduct a public debate on the initiative, the SRS will be informed that a few hours will hold the public debate. And, the day before that, you get a telegram notice that there won't be any public debates. When, however, it happens, along with some other initiatives, declares some law or part of the law unconstitutional, then in the preamble to the Constitutional Court's decision, it is said that it is on the initiative of this group of citizens, that group of citizens, of this company, of that, there is no SRS anywhere. And the SRS has initiated over 90% of the requirements for establishing the constitutionality of certain laws that have indeed been declared unconstitutional. We had an interesting request when it came to abuse by the former president of the Natasa Kandic Assembly, who recruited the MPs, who took... Micic, what I said – the same are, not a big mistake, only, fortunately, she wasn't really in the Assembly... So she recruited the MPs and the Constitutional Court, who, of course, then supported the idea of Natasha Micic, did not say that such a provision was unconstitutional. Some other provisions, however, have been declared unconstitutional. When it comes to what is happening today in the Serbian Parliament, it cannot be missed without saying that the direct responsibility of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, Vučetic, was also ruled out by a flea market from this parliament. It was then done, when at one point Judge Ciplic and Vučetic had the same attitude that corresponded to the then assembly majority of DS – Boris Tadic. When it was appropriate for them to banish whoever they wanted, to bring whom they wanted, then such a decision was made – that MPs were the owners of their mandates, which is completely illogical and out of their minds. As a lawyer, I say it's not a good decision, regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, on the other hand, I know that this decision has to be respected and respected until some law is passed that's going to put such stupidity into effect. So, the decision -- that an MP elected from a party's parliamentary list could be the owner of his mandate, that he would come out and say that 10, 12, 15, 18 thousand citizens voted for him, is a complete nebulosis. Who is this MP in this House who can say that he was voted against by 18 thousand people?- I'm sorry. Of course, votes were won by political parties and coalitions. It is a sin of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, I stress, from a time when Ciplic and Vucetic had the same political stance. But there were also some situations, Ciplic, as an exposed official of DS, and Vučetic, a G17 Plus official, when these parties disagreed on the political scene, then these judges had completely different views. I'll remind you, when some of the laws are declared unconstitutional, the famous extraprofit: Vučetic comes out on one television and explains the reasons why it was put out of force, why it's unconstitutional, so turn the other channel that keeps DS under control, there you have Chiplic telling a completely different story, as if they weren't sitting in the same court, as if it wasn't the same decision. Why has Vučetic still made such a decision in time, to return to the shortest, most embarrassing decision of the Constitutional Court, which refers to the MPs as the owners of the mandate and to the provision of trade and, I repeat, flea markets in this House? Now there's a lot of talk about it, and in the last session when we Serbian radicals talked about it, it was sort of being put aside and there was a minority secret for Serbian citizens, that the first sin of taking a mandate in that last meeting was by G17 and SPO. The G17 was not even a party at the time of the elections, and after that, they had MPs in this parliament. The SPO did not pass the censorship, but they also bought MPs in this parliament. So it's an old story with the same roots, rooted in the decisions of Judge Vučetic and his Constitutional Court. What Boris Tadic writes to us today. Of course, again today we are without the full composition of the Constitutional Court, and that literally means without the Constitutional Court, and then we have this completely unblessing proposal. Yesterday, Mr Krasic read what the "respected" president of the DS, who falsely presents himself as the president of all Serbian citizens, and then we got an unwise explanation from the president of the assembly. Now I'm going to read again what Boris Tadic tells us. He, on the basis of Article 83(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as judges of the Constitutional Court, Svetislav Bulajic and Dragica Marjanovic. "I consider these candidates to have professional and personal qualities based on which they will properly perform the functions to which I have proposed them." Then he says, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 22 June 2005, made the decision to suspend the office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia Dr Srdjan Djordjevic, on 30 September 2005. Taking into account the fact that the newly elected judge could only take office as of 1 October 2005, I would like to inform you that I will propose to the candidate in good time, so that the Constitutional Court can work in full composition as of 1 October 2005, and today it is 15 November. It really remains unclear to me, since you are in co-habitation, whether you will listen to Boris Tadic and accept this proposal. It remains unclear to me, and when you choose whether the Constitutional Court still lacks one judge. According to what it says here, it's missing. According to Predrag Markovic, but since he communicates well with Tadic, you remember that Labour and Fine Communications Act, so it can be faked in no time, no matter what the National Assembly says here and what decisions and conclusions are made. Now we have two concrete proposals here. One proposal is for Svetislava Bulajic and her biography here on three or four sides is written, so far. We only have briefly, on one side, the biography of Dragica Marjanovic. Now, by the logic of the matter, since this first one, Bulajic, was born in 1964 and Dragica Marjanović in 1943, it would be logical to have more data from the biography of this which should almost be retired, but I don't know why Boris Tadic chose it this way. This lady, Dragica Marjanovic, is 62 years old and 38, already 39 years of work experience. According to this terrible retirement law of yours, in a year's time, two of the most, it meets all the conditions of both criteria, or no longer has to choose, but has to retire. Why today would we choose a Constitutional Court judge who in a year's time is going to retire, that we have a debate here again on the same subject and that Boris Tadic, if we are not called off or if there are no snap elections by then, if he is president of Serbia – we will again be without the Constitutional Court as much as it suits him. I think it is inadmissible and indeed MPs who intend to vote on this must make sure that, however, we are serious about the vote and the election. The Constitutional Court is the highest judicial function in Serbia and should indeed be seen in this way when voting and discussing these proposals. Tadic deliberately blocks the Constitutional Court, it is not a secret, but it is clearly supported by Kostunica's majority in the Assembly in that intention. So that's how you cohabitate. There is no cohabitation when it comes to agreeing to provide this parliament with a platform on resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. That's where they can't agree. And when the Constitutional Court is blocked, Kostunica and "maneken" Tadic agree fantastically. So, what's Boris Tadic's second proposal? Mrs. Svetislava Bulajić. The lady was born in 1964 and now, here, I said, there are three sides to her: and language knowledge, and work experience and other engagements, selected publications, books, etc. But there is something that Boris Tadic did not write, which is that Mrs. Svetislava Bulajić, who is 41 years old, in a generation of former students, and now professor of extraordinary and regular law school, is the only one from the generation still an assistant and similar to Mladja Dinkic, and all of her classmates are either extraordinary or regular professors of Law Faculty, such as Gordana Ilic-Popov, a regular professor and a generation. Why was this Mrs. Bulajić admitted to law school at the time? He's received a professor. Pavel Nikolic. He was the oldest professor in the department and most influential at the time. Why do you think he took it? Because the lady at the time was his own daughter-in-law, the wife of his own son. That's true. You're the only one who's frowning and on the way to a colorful newspaper, you've got something to see, but keep track of what we're talking about. So why is Boris Tadic proposing it now? Because he can't be a magistrate much longer, ma'am, and he can't be an assistant. Then it would be nice to settle for some sound function, where they will work as much as Tadic and DS ask her to, where they will keep company with the official DS, Chipplic, and the wonderful one. And what does Serbia still have no Constitutional Court, which really takes care of constitutionality, which really takes care of the legal system? And you all smile on this discussion of my and our discussions of this kind, just to remind you of the trade in this parliament, which is the outcome of the Serbian Constitutional Court's decision. Do those of you who smile support it? We saw it yesterday, and we'll probably see it in some of the next votes, but that's what dear colleagues are talking about in front of Serbian citizens. As a result, you from the congregation’s majority will answer in some subsequent elections. That is why the "maneken" Tadic will also answer; he will be asked by citizens one day how much money he spent on those mirrors each day in the Serbian presidency. He would be better off dealing with his constitutional powers, not getting involved in the work of the SPC, not opening a National Office with local offices throughout Serbia, on the cost of Serbian citizens. We will talk about it when the budget is announced to Serbian citizens how much Mladja Dinkic predicted money for the unconstitutional National Office, therefore, to do his job, what his constitutional authority is. It is the constitutional authority of Boris Tadic to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court. We don't dispute his authority, but we dispute him and dispute his proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21855	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21856	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Angelkovic, we have before us a proposal from the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. To come to the Assembly, to respect the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law of this country, Members of Parliament would have to put their finger on the head and consider whether Boris Tadic is the president of the Republic. First of all, let me ask you from the DSS, you chose him as president, you helped the "yellows" to be elected president of the Republic, now step outside the National Assembly building, walk the streets of Belgrade, start from the north to the south and ask the citizens who are their authentic representative and who is the real president of Serbia, everyone will tell you that this is Tomislav Nikolic. Since you did everything possible on election day, in the second election round, after Tomislav Nikolic declared him first, Boris Tadic, thanks to your votes, received the mandate to do what he did not do, the affairs prescribed by the Constitution and the law, then you must also bear responsibility for two candidates, which Mr Krasic spoke of yesterday and Mrs Radeta today. Because this tribe of their biography and everything you didn't write, or Tadic didn't inform you, still keeps you uninformed, certainly says that the candidates are bad. As for the SRS, we can also talk about the existing judges of the Constitutional Court, and you know that we are experts in poor and catastrophic biography and behaviour of Slobodan Vučetić, to talk about these two today, as some of you would say "candidate", these two candidates, but at this point less important, but the fact that candidates are proposed by the president who had one of the candidates in his expert constitution group. Since this proposal of the Constitution came in such a way that the DS would rub your nose or finger in your eye and since the lady participated in the draft constitution, you had to think about it a little bit – what kind of conconsequence this choice of judges of the Constitutional Court will have, and what kind of body and organisation she already has, as the letter of our Constitution puts it, and what kind of political institution is it in the first place. Since 2000 and since the arrival of Slobodan Vučetic, from performances written in the teams by representatives of the SRS for the launch of an assessment of constitutionality and legality, Mr Krasic, among all of you who are lawyers and those who are judges of the Constitutional Court, has always had something to say in his expert reviews of the violation of the law and the Constitution. I have to ask you: what about the laws and did you so condemn them, who flagrantly violated the Constitution and the rights of man and citizen and individual, who were more notoriously persecuted by the DOS regime, in which you present factors, in most part, coalitions around Kostunica, participated? Remember the Law on Extraprofits and Remember the Hijka and Haranga of People, and above all, Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Vukic and the other SRS leaders, such a law that could not possibly survive in legal traffic, which these lawyers would say against whom the SRS is and why it immediately wrote a play to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I must return you, it is a good thing Mr. Angelkovic is now chairing, for a period of time since before the DOS harassing in Serbia and to give a clear and precise assessment that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has been since the 1990s. a year of political institution. You, who do not know anything about what has been going on in Serbia for 15 years or for you it begins from the infamous October 5th and beyond, I must now, as long as it allows me, with a brief observation to return to the summer of 1994. To ask Albianic what he was doing at the time – he used summer vacation, lectured at school, took walks, went to pick some lawns, watched what he was going to do, chased the children a little with a stick, he had nothing to do with what was then in Serbia. I'm so glad that at this point Serbia's nominal president, Mr Nikolic, is entering the hall. I have to remind you of the 1994 fact. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the SRS, Prof. Vojislav Seselj and other representatives of the SRS, have in the most harsh way, because of such a decision by the Separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, which you at the level of the state union in cohabitation, in coalition, expelled the SRS leaders from one municipality to another. From the Municipality of Perast to the municipality of Zemun. Is that true? Here, Mr. Palalic and all the people who remember, as well as Mr. Angelkovic, who was the protagonist of the regime at the time, not this separatist in Montenegro, but this one in Serbia, knows that it is true. Where, to this day, the Constitutional Court of Serbia's response, then, as political institutions, whose continuity was Vučetic, as where G17 and as an expert in the field of justice, continued. There's no answer. You have not wondered how it was possible for the MPs, then and from the Federal Assembly, the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, from one municipality to be expelled and deported to another municipality, at four o'clock in the morning, with all the small children, pulled out of bed. Then what surprises me? Then how do you react and why do you care about one law, when people are acting like that? I must remind you, in 1997, the political Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia did not give an answer, based on the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, and on the presentation and initiation of the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and violation of the rights of citizens, above all, the theft in the elections, when Milan Milutinovic was elected President of the Republic. Should I remind you of that, and you never put yourself in protective custody when you were some petty opposition, there were two or three of you, these "yellow" then were not even in the Assembly, and then you decided to boycott the Assembly and now, that's why they're failing and there's less and less of them in the electoral body. You have not wondered how it is possible for 20 Serbs to live in the polling post, 16 Serbs to vote for Prof. Vojislav Seselj and 1,800 and some voters, meaning the turnout almost 100% for Milan Milutinovic. Or in the village of Prekaza, where Shipatarian terrorists, Yasari, had their foothold, where police could not enter the tank for more than 15 years, the turnout was not 100%, but 102-103% and all voted for Milan Milutinovic. After 2000, the political functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, led by Slobodan Vučetic, continued. The law on extraprofits, racketeering and Mr. Nikolic, and Mr. Vukic and all other honorable and honest people, and other tycoons and thieves who are good to you, of course, you haven't touched, are still intact today, just some of the examples of a flagrant violation of the Constitution. To this day, it never occurred to you to throw out all those disastrous provisions of the Planning and Construction Act. You did not rebel when you were given the mandate to be MPs in the National Assembly, and when the answers came, after a year and a half, by the Constitutional Court, because you stated: what we care about, we attached this coalition, Vučetic is still good for us. In March 2004, decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vučetic, were published on performances that the SRS had submitted for years or months in succession. There you got the answer that she was right, only in one part, the SRS when, referring to the Constitution and the law, it challenged that Natasa Micic and Cedomir Jovanovic had come up with that MPs could not explain the amendments. I know it's hard for you and today, because we always make arguments against your criminal laws. Everything else, you see, was according to the Constitution and the law. And that the unfortunate woman reads the messengers who are not in the hall, and orders the police to interfere and intervene, and to rip the MPs' hands and feet out of the door, and to recalibrate them, and that the persons who by no letter of the law could not come into the assembly, such as Milet Corinthians and others, suddenly, one day, enter this door, about five o'clock, sit in the benches, some temporary cards, throw in, that the Assembly then has 308, instead of, at that moment, 250 MPs, and that the series of laws, which are today in force, whose only changes and additions you do, voted with the help of Milet Corinthians and others who came, one day, sat down, were two or three days, voted, so Ceda and Mićka told them. And then, imagine, were, reportedly, Stevan Lilić and Dragore Hiber, professors of Law School, in legal error, not aware of what was going on when they resigned to the seats of MPs. Are you from the DSS with such a type and degree of amnesia, did some hypocrisis come to you, to talk to these G17s plus pointless, is an expert on Slobodan Vučetić from their group, it's known that they are passing through and you see by these polls that censors, with Bubka's spear, can't transfer anyone from G17 plus, but all of it and forget all of it – how can you forget that you've been thrown out head-to-head, so you all had to go through here and have Micicki pass the parliamentary card? Were you right when you claimed the same thing as the SRS – that by stealing the mandate and votes in the Republika Srpska Assembly the laws were passed here? Yes, it is. You have now forgotten all this, because in June of last year, instead of supporting an honorable man, a patriot and a representative of citizens who are both Serbian and other national, you supported Boris Tadic. Well, you had someone to support. How smart he is and how he does the work of the President of the Republic you see these days. Just look at all those newspapers standing in front of you. What's his attitude, and we'll see in a few days, about Kosovo and Metohija. Where is it to plead? Where are his MPs? Their devastating political decision to leave the Serbian Parliament and not being there and being wiped out on the Serbian political scene is certainly something good. And that corresponds to the SRS, and above all to citizens who have been mistaken for being some Democrats and that this president is someone who can provide them with prosperity, to be an ambassador to the economy. But when this lady, with her noble biography, this sister-in-law, as Mrs Radeta said, was an expert in the writing of the constitution, take their proposal to put a finger in your eye and interrupt the work of the Constitutional Commission of the Republic of Serbia, for, for, for God's sake, they have decided, (and you tend them because you are in cohabitation) only a chapter – guarantee, constitutionality and constitutionality and legality to cast out. What's with the Democratic Party? They do not respect the Constitution and the law, Boris Tadic does not adhere to the Constitution and the law, and you then accept such people and such proposals. You didn't mind, and you wouldn't miss, and we invite you to do it right now, that because of both political biographies and because of the position and role played by Slobodan Vučetic, as president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, you do nothing, and because of such decisions made and the laws that are harmful and unconstitutional in force, you reject this proposal. Otherwise you'll be held accountable. Kostunica will boast and say that all institutions are stable, the government is doing great, in parliament everything is nice, everything is booming. Look at what the Rules of Procedure is like, see what the provisions of the business are still in force. You've held them back, and you've disfigured even more of the Assembly. However, there are no more evictions and such ferocity and such a frontal conflict, but look at what kind of a Rules of Procedure you're doing, how you humiliated the highest legislative authority in this country. Then tomorrow you think that you are giving these people hands, that these two women, along with the other judges of the Constitutional Court, headed by Vučetić, are assessing constitutionality and legality, will not be able to do so. These are people who will never look at the letter and the Constitution and the law to protect the rights of citizens, units of local self-government. I've mentioned more than a few times the Arangel case and the fact that I'm running some sort of so-called so-called. The assembly majority (with the introduction of the committee at the door, one day resign, after half an hour the other is appointed) is now in power in the municipality. This is what your former President Radomir Milosevic knows and knows about the performances that we have sent to the Constitutional Court. You don't expect us to have you amnesty in the future. Be assured, given that the elections are nearing or will certainly be before the mandate you think you have given your rule, that (just as I am Mr. Angelkovic today for the period from 1994 to 2000 or DS, and for those of you who supported them), we will remind you of that and keep telling you that you have made a mistake, but to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia, because you have accepted this proposal, which is not the President of the Republic, but only the President of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21857	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal looks at Serbia's political moment, the co-existence of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, the role of Parliament in all of this, and especially the highest institution to protect and protect citizens, constitutionality, legal order, respect for the laws and acts adopted by the National Assembly. According to you who are now in power and who in 2000 came to power in another combination, the democratic state in which you are in power is an independent judiciary in the state where you are in power. That's why you've done the lustration in the courts, which is why you attacked the Constitutional Court, so you first brought party personnel to the Constitutional Court, and then left Serbia for an unthinkable and unforgivable long period without the Constitutional Court. First the DS, almost a year and a half, and now, here, this new group of political parties leading Serbia, are holding us without the Constitutional Court, will be doing so for almost seven or eight months. The constitution says the president of the Republic proposes candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, and judges elect the president among themselves. We have come to the situation that you have supported the candidate for President of the Republic in the elections, he is your President of the Republic, and now that he submits a motion for the Constitutional Court Judges he is no longer your President of the Republic and there is a possibility, I think it will be realized, that you will not vote for at least one of the proposed two candidates, perhaps none. Don't think you have no responsibility in all this. The responsibility lies with the President of the Republic, obviously he didn't negotiate with you about the candidate for the Constitutional Court, but responsibility lies with you because we don't have a Constitutional Court. You make laws, you enforce them, and you deprive us of the right to control you. We submit a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government, you take the proposal off the agenda. We submit a proposal for the Assembly to determine whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, all the conditions of the Rules of Procedure have been met for the proposal, and the President puts it on the agenda most of the time. The assembly does not adopt an emergency procedure and we no longer have the opportunity, we do not have the possibility, you have suspended our constitutional right to discuss the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic wrote a letter to the National Assembly and proposed two candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. In that letter, he says -- I know that the court is left without a third judge, I know that it expires on September 30th, I will take care of that, by October 1st you will have a proposal in the Serbian Parliament and for the third judge of the Constitutional Court, and you will be able to make your statement. Tell the President of the Republic that this proposal has not been received. You have your personnel deployed there. Whether there was an agreement between Kostunica and Tadic to propose two candidates, one from the DS, and one acceptable to the DSS, I don't know, but it will be seen at the vote. One of the candidates is clean and dry DS, you know it very well, until the end, even the adviser to Boris Tadic, president of the Democratic Party. Why Boris Tadic did not rise high enough to be president of Serbia, because he was elected DS president and it seems to have been the highest range of Boris Tadic. This is his adviser who suggested that the Constitution be changed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't put a guard like that next to a treasure called the Constitution, I wouldn't put that goat in the house to keep the cabbage, because it's going to eat. He who does not guard the constitutional order cannot be the judge of the Constitutional Court. He who does not guard the National Assembly cannot be president of the National Assembly. An institution is sacred, not a man in an institution. Generally speaking, we are a man of sanctity, but the Constitutional Court judge is not sacred, the Holy One is the Constitutional Court. So think carefully about this agenda point. First, it has been standing in the Serbian Parliament for five months in some kind of procedure, and you know that the procedure starts only when this point enters the agenda, only then does someone declare themselves about the candidates. Why was there a motion for a Constitutional Court judge for five months? Because there hasn't been a Constitutional Court session since. Because it suits you that there is no session of the Constitutional Court, as it is, because there are people there who will not embarrass themselves, and that they may make any decisions that you will. After that last ruse when a whole law was put out of force at night, and you know that the Constitutional Court has no right to do so, the Law on the assistance of the families of the Hague prisoners, on the assistance of both children and women and fathers and mothers, and after that decision no longer has the decision of the Constitutional Court. There are no five judges who will vote for a decision. As soon as the Constitutional Court does not have nine members, the constitutional order is questioned. Of course, neither did anyone ask us when the candidates were proposed, nor does it depend on us whether they will be elected. I warn you, the staff lists for the Constitutional Court judges in the parties cannot be made. The best professors of law school choose as judges of the Constitutional Court and, behold, I will vote for such a solution. Keep your staff, those who are in the parties' schools, safe to run the state administration, save them for other functions, keep them from proposing something that the Constitutional Court won't bring down and it's a pearl, the state administration is the pearl of a state. It would not have happened to us if the government had submitted and elected two deputies as deputy ministers and claimed that they could still be MPs. And if you had appointed top lawyers to advise the government, the National Assembly, to deploy top lawyers to courts, no one would have resented you. What did you do? From 2001 to today, you have replaced three generations of judges in all courts. There is not a Serbia that many capable judges, there is no!- I'm sorry. That's why they're judging learned children now. Perhaps they will listen to you and make some decision that is your will, and is that the purpose of your rule? That's why I'm warning you, the Sanhedrin is the Constitutional Court. I don't know, and I don't want to make a statement about what he looked like before, and I'm not even going to say about that Constitutional Court that's been up to your day since 2001. I want to talk about the Constitutional Court at a time when you're in the majority and I want to talk about your relationship with the Constitutional Court. It's a humiliating relationship! If you choose one party official as judge of the Constitutional Court, it is a humiliating attitude towards the Constitutional Court. What do you need that for? So he doesn't undo any of your acts. Why not undo something that doesn't comply with the Constitution? Where would you take the state, if the Constitutional Court judge has always approved that you step on the Constitution over and over again, so they won't make a statement, they won't vote, or there's no sitting. In some other courts, the rapporteur is the chief, the judge's rapporteur, his position decides and does not repute judges. We can re-vote them. Don't make them vote on the party line. This proposal is bad. Both candidates are not candidates for the Constitutional Court judges and you know it very well. The first candidate is the Democratic Party. It's better that you suggested Boris Tadic. This one, which is a candidate, is more the Democratic Party than Boris Tadic, and the other candidate has two years to retire. It doesn't make sense! Well, it's not a retirement home, Constitutional Court. They don't spend their last days there. There's a lot to do, a lot to read, a lot to learn, a lot to travel. I don't blame the first candidate for saying he's never been in the country, but she may have learned something on those trips, although judging by who's organizing it and who's paying for it, I'm not sure he knows Serbia's well-known Constitution. After all, she was embarrassed when she suggested that we change him here in the congregation. I don't mind, let the judges of the Constitutional Court travel. Have them communicate with their colleagues from other states. Let them see the Constitution defend itself in other states.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21859	Mr. Nikolic, are you using another 10 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21860	Here, I'm done. Don't propose to us as judges of the Constitutional Court people who are already retired, who have already handed over to calculate their average. We need strong judges of the Constitutional Court, defenders. Believe me, our work here would be easier if you who are the majority now or we who will be the majority tomorrow if we knew that the Constitutional Court would undo any unconstitutional decision, and then you would be much more careful, you would be performing completely differently in both the Assembly and the public. And not to go into the judiciary and how we choose judges and how they humiliated us so that the MPs could only vote on who would be the judge. They can't choose judges. They can only vote. When we don't vote on someone we've been suggested, we're attacked in public for not voting, because we're the voting machine here. We've got the High Council of Justice, we've got whoever's proposing, we just need to vote him out. Why didn't we vote him when everyone agreed? Well, we're not a voting machine. We're thinking with our heads, and I'm asking you to think with your head. Return this proposal, ask Kostunica and Tadic to sit down to agree: whether they want legal order in accordance with the constitution, whether they want an independent institution to defend the Constitution, whether they want to choose the right lawyers for judges of the Constitutional Court. In front of such a list, and I know that half of you MPs know which professors deserve to be Constitutional Court judges, we, Serbian radicals, will take off your hat, although we will not participate in the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21861	Thank you. According to the reports, the word has been made by MP Sreto Peric, and should be prepared for Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to talk about this subject after the excellent presentation of the deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group. There is something left to say, and about this proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. The fact that the elected president of the Republic of Serbia is not acting in accordance with the Constitution and the law, that is, does not do what the president of a state should do, is also his proposal to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. Namely, by Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he has the right to propose to the National Assembly candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and this proposal is not good. So it's one of the few powers that he should do so well and that the state of Serbia has benefited from it, but he has not done so properly. I'm a little confused, whether we will now have eight or ten judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. That is precisely what results from this explanation in President Boris Tadic's letter. I realized that after these two proposals, there remains another vacant seat in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting to see the biography of one of the candidates for the Constitutional Court Judge, which is Svetislava Bulajic, I assume the biography was written by DS President Boris Tadic. And when it comes to the second candidate, Dragica Marjanovic, she wrote a biography in the first face of the one. The impression is that the co-habitation between the government and the president of the Republic is in action, that an agreement is reached – one to propose the President of the Republic and the other to the ruling majority, and then there would be some compromise to make it acceptable for the parliamentary majority. In yesterday's presentation of Zoran Krasic, when he said his names, one of the members of the Justice and Management Committee asked who these people were. I must say that the members of the Board of Administration and the judiciary are mostly prominent lawyers, colleagues I respect. It is likely that all parliamentary groups, according to their proclivities, have proposed members of the Board of Administration and Justice, and colleagues have made an effort to expand their knowledge from the legal profession later on. To explain Mr. Zoran Krasic on this subject, they asked – whose names are these? So, the members of the Justice and Administration Committee were completely uninformed about candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, which will say that this issue was not an adequate approach from either the president of the Republic of Serbia or the assembly majority. You remember one occasion when the Minister of Local Self-Government said: The bill, and it is about the Law on State Administration and civil servants, was based on the draft Constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is the impression that the ruling majority is concerned that the Constitutional Court judges are those candidates who will not interfere with their work; when some laws are adopted, which will have some deficiency, which we Serbian radicals point to when we hold a debate in principle, and later when the details are discussed, because it will suit you, that they remain so that some party functions and interests will be satisfied. It is very interesting for the first candidate in this proposal, according to the first weight, and which second, we may find it a little harder to answer, although it is clear that the first candidate is Svetislava Bulajic, I saw in the biography, which Boris Tadic gave along with this proposal for a decision, that she received nine scholarships for her completion. It's very interesting who the donors of these scholarships are. If only this were to be read, it would be the impression that we today should elect the chairman of the board of directors of the scholarship agency, not the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Then, in the skills and abilities of the candidates, it is a very interesting pedagogical research experience, which characterizes and monitors the work of this one candidate, Svetislava Bulajić, a consulting experience trained in computer work; this other candidate does not write it. Does that mean she's not trained to work on computers? It probably isn't, maybe it is, but this guy didn't think it was necessary. Finally, what Mr Krasic spoke of yesterday, trained for mediation and non-violent communication. This has gone too far. This sounds like a video, like a commercial. Then, in the reasons, it is said in the characteristics of which the associations and organisations participated and proved themselves to be Mrs Bulajic. I think there could be an adequate replacement for her here, because there's no big difference between them. But, well, it's not her, it's Mrs. Bulajic. When it comes to the second candidate -- Dragica Marjanovic, my colleagues from the SRS have already said that, it is about the person who is in front of the pension. Indeed, what Mr Tomislav Nikolic just said in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia should be chosen by those candidates who know a lot and have a lot of legal experience, and especially regarding constitutional law, parallel constitutional law, those candidates who want to prove themselves, who may be on the rise of their business and professional careers, but certainly cannot be expected from some candidate who has over 60 years of life and another year or two to retirement. I think this proposal should be rejected. No big deal would have happened. One of the MPs asked Mr. Krasic if he could give a photo robot candidate to the Constitutional Court? He didn't give a photo robot, he explained it yesterday, and now Mr Tomislav Nikolic said what kind of candidate he should be for the Constitutional Court judge, and these are some of the professors. Here, Albianic could be one of the good candidates, mathematically setting things up there properly. I made a little joke, but I think this proposal should be rejected and that for the candidates of the Constitutional Court, the most experienced professors of law school should be sought. That proposal will probably get a green light from the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21863	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, then Dragoljub Stamenkovic, then Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go. The SRS parliamentary group still has 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally come up with a proposal for the Constitutional Court judges, of course with a great delay, because for some seven or eight months Serbia has no Constitutional Court. Indeed, it must be noted that having no constitutional court again is a consistent continuation of DS policy, because this is not the first time, but it happened immediately after the DOS came to power, for a year and a half, Serbia was without the Constitutional Court. Then the executive power, and most of it, in parliament, was in the hands of the DS. In their hands, they also held firm the then-named President of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic. We all knew very well, and the citizens of Serbia, that he was just a pawn in their hands, that without them and their permission he did nothing, and mostly he did nothing. Simply, the situation that DS was responding to back then suits them today. For this reason, we were able to wait this long for Boris Tadic to propose two candidates for the Constitutional Court judges and once again to fail the promise he made to us, and therefore to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because in this letter, which was sent on 25 June 2005, he said he was aware that the Constitutional Court was left without a third judge and that, in order for the Constitutional Court to work normally, he would propose to the third candidate, on time, or before the end of his term of office in September 2005. Of course, Boris Tadic did not do it because he prefers the Constitutional Court not to perform its constitutional functions, to continue the chaos in the country. The second thing, which makes this proposal extremely controversial, is the question of recalling the President of the Republic. The SRS handed over the procedure, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, an initiative to recall the president of the Republic of Serbia. From that moment on he absolutely does not and can no longer have the legitimacy to perform anything other than those of his regular daily activities. But it is absolutely unacceptable for the President of the Republic, against whom the strongest parliamentary party has initiated the impeachment procedure, to propose judges of the Constitutional Court, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have any legitimacy after the motion for a vote of no confidence has been filed with the Government, and after you have refused to discuss it in your quasi-democratic manner. It should also be recalled that the Constitutional Court served the DS very well in the previous period and wondered if anyone from the DS could rightly look us in the eye and suggest here to us the judges of the Constitutional Court. Remember only some decisions, such as a decision on parliamentary mandates, which directly represented the collapse of constitutional order and some democratic flows in the Republic of Serbia. Remember the state of emergency and the requirement to review the constitutionality of introducing the state of emergency, which was filed by the SRS and which was waiting for a decision for about two years. It was not then, apparently, in the opinion of these Constitutional Court judges, that there were reasons for urgency. Only 12,000 citizens of Serbia without any civil and human rights were incarcerated by prisons in Serbia, with an unprecedented media hack. But if it's the enemies of the People's Order, as you said then, then, of course, they don't have to have any rights. It was their fault in advance. The principle of presummation of innocence, you have also replaced the principle of presummation of guilt and you have spoken then, and you are now saying, that some should go to The Hague to prove their innocence. When the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, went to The Hague, you were exulting at the time; it has been almost three years since he was there, and it is obvious that there is no longer a principle of presummation of guilt, because you and your friends from The Hague tribunal are not only forcing him to prove your innocence, but simply not allowing him during this period of nearly three years. It should also be remembered the Law of Help to the families of the Hague indictees. At that time, the Constitutional Court could react overnight, because the inconclusive and irreparable consequences would happen in Serbia if 200 euros were given to every family of the Hague indictees, but you did not mind that during the "Sabbe" action, tens of thousands of people were in prison! As far as the candidates themselves are concerned, it is more than interesting, especially this biography, and I would single out, it appears that this lady, Svetislava Bulajić, had traveled a lot, that she was even seeing, attended certain seminars from July to August 1999, in Budapest, it was right after the bombing, probably the last planes to return after the bombs were dropped on Serbian children transported to Budapest to finish some of these courses, so she was probably trained there for mediation and non-violent communication, as if she were going to fight with someone in the Constitutional Court. She was a member of the expert group of the president of the Republic of Serbia to develop a model of the Serbian Constitution, which is probably the biggest recommendation, but what I would like to point out in particular is, in the end, where it is said -- published books. This candidate of books has published a doctoral dissertation – certainly not published this work as a book, because in this case it would write where it was published, when it was published and everything else, and the second book it published, or did not publish it as the first, says - "French Guardian of the Constitution" in preparation for publication. So, of the two books that the candidate for President of the Constitutional Court has published, one has not been published, the other is in preparation. For all other reasons and many other reasons, I think it is necessary for this proposal to be withdrawn, so that, indeed, some of the high moral and quality lawyers we have in Serbia are proposed. Propose renowned professors of law school and then we'll vote for such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21865	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared; another 14 minutes is time for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the DSS wants to settle its misunderstandings with DS and Boris Tadic, and now we have a proposal that, perhaps not a prominent member or members of the first echelon of the DS, but certainly people very close to DS and President Tadic are proposing to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Perhaps the logic and thinking of the congregation's majority is as follows: we haven't had a Constitutional Court for a year and a half, he didn't function, so why not be these candidates, because, anyway, the Constitutional Court is in this country as well as a chemical pen, it doesn't get cut, so neither is the Constitutional Court. We have problems always with every proposal by Boris Tadic. We always doubt his suggestion, we're always skeptical when he proposes to anyone. Imagine when he suggested Gilas to be head of the National Office, and imagine Gilas being someone who runs a responsible business in the state. Then what other candidates can be here. Will they make us happy as Gilas makes us happy, spending huge amounts of hard-earned budget money and doing the things that Gilas did, mainly in favor of DS and in order to promote DS? Do you perhaps want to continue the tradition of the Constitutional Court as a political organisation, which will, in accordance with the needs of the parties in power, regulate certain matters and relations in favour of that party that exercises power, therefore, in the short term, and that any subsequent power will be replaced by the judges of the Constitutional Court as it suits them. I think it's time to stop in Serbia. The judge of the Constitutional Court should be a sanctity, an uncircumcised personality, a man who will be trusted and whose decisions will never be doubted. Do you want to have such a Constitutional Court and such Constitutional Court judges who will assign the party's mandates to MPs even though they are not by their name and last name, so I mean their personal name, elected, but have been given the party's right and trust to represent the party in the Serbian Parliament? However, I do not blame the Constitutional Court alone, if it were honor with such people, they would always put their mandate at the disposal of the party. As I say, my mandate has an SRS, I only represent the SRS and at the request of the party, the mandate always returns to whoever entrusted you with the mandate. I must tell you again that we are grateful to you. You could have made worse suggestions, you could have suggested Stevan Lilić, a proven plagiarist or Dr. Drago Hiber, who resigned in time, and then said that he was in legal error and that he did not know that he had resigned, or what consequences his resignation would have. Imagine, a professor of law school teaching children to be lawyers, being brought into legal error, and that would be an even more disastrous solution. We must thank you for that. I'd like to draw your attention to some things from the candidate's biography. Imagine when someone says she's trained for mediation and non-violent communication. I've seen films about James Bond, and that's where she writes "trained to kill" commercials, which is like that, but to the candidate for the Constitutional Court judge - trained for mediation and non-violent communication? I guess every single one of us who's a MP or anyone who's a normal citizen of this country, and not some case that needs to be treated in special institutions, trained in birth and home education, in school education, for non-violent communication. Otherwise, we'd have that kind of communication so people would kill each other on the streets for every slow, any traffic light or any place where they don't exactly agree. Now imagine this pearl here, says one candidate - 'Serve Italian and Russian', and the other says 'I serve English'. Tongue is either spoken or not spoken. To use tools, weapons, arms, spoons, forks. The candidate for the Constitutional Court can't, therefore, be the man we consider to be, above all, a top professional, a first-class expert in the field to work, and also an educated man, a man who knows how to use words in Serbian, can't serve that. If he says so here, we suspect, with what I said earlier, that he was proposed by a man in whom absolutely no one has any confidence anymore, that these people will perform their functions as necessary and to the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. Had it been for Professor Vojislav Seselj or Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, to propose candidates, it would have been another song.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21867	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21868	Ladies and gentlemen, it's kind of pointless to talk like this in front of an empty or almost empty gym, and that reminds me of a class in an empty classroom. For the sake of Serbian citizens, let me briefly refer to what happened here when this session began. In the adoption of the agenda, namely, the president of the Assembly, in addition to what was proposed for the agenda of this session, has put on the vote a single proposal by a group of 103 MPs, which is required to be put on the agenda as an emergency procedure, and this is about recalling the president of the Republic of Serbia. What's unclear to me, and probably most of the citizens, and because of them, I'm saying this, who may not have seen it last night, who haven't figured out what it is, I want to make it clear, just because of them. The assembly majority did not then vote to enter the session's agenda and the point -- a motion to recall the president of the Republic of Serbia. I will list several valid and reasonable reasons why the majority of parliament, and primarily the DSS, had to vote at least to get into the agenda and discuss it, and for the outcome and the debate to decide later on how to vote. Serbian citizens know that a year ago the DS tried to seize a mandate from the DSS. Serbian citizens also know that, some, a month ago, the DS parliamentary group left the parliament in such a way, justifying it by the reason that the assembly's majority took away or, as they say, kidnapped two parliamentary mandates. In doing so, they accused the largest party in the coalition, the DSS. 15 days ago in Belgrade, as well as in other Serbian cities, there were painted or glued posters showing the president of the DSS and the current prime minister, above the picture of the title or messages – 'lasov'. A month ago, the current Serbian president urged the head of the Catholic church to come to Serbia for an official visit without the approval or consent of the SPC. Also, 15 days ago, the current president of Serbia, when he spoke about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, or the start of negotiations, spoke about our arguments, the arguments of the Republic of Serbia, which we must use to preserve Kosovo and Metohija within our borders. But then he said that these negotiations would be difficult, as the other side has strong arguments, and then he underlined that their strongest argument was 'right to self-determination'. Of course, Mr. Tadic does not know enough who can have the right to self-determination and as president of the state who is directly interested in this issue cannot and must not address the nation in this way. All of these are valid reasons and arguments that should have required at least the DSS parliamentary group to put on the agenda, or help with the vote that we have that issue on the agenda, the issue recalls the president of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, the president of the Republic of Serbia is mostly the president of the DS and mainly performs the post, and very little and very incorrectly and the function of the president of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this proposal that we are considering here today also speaks of an incorrect relationship or disrespect of the Constitution, which is a better expression of the president of the Republic of Serbia, because as far as I understand from last night's discussion we have since December last year the Constitutional Court in incomplete composition. The Republika Srpska Assembly also received the proposal with two candidates at the end of June this year. So, for more than six months, the Republic of Serbia has not had a complete Constitutional Court, and it has been nothing new since this political party conglomerate, called DOS, came in 2000 and took Serbia into its own hands. We had in the beginning a year and a half of the situation that Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court, a year and a half no one could assess the constitutionality or legality of many laws and other decisions adopted in this parliament. Many of these decisions were illegal, illegal, unconstitutional, which later turned out, but unfortunately they are still in effect. Here, and now that practice continues. We haven't had a Constitutional Court in a full year. The President of the Republic did not find it appropriate to intervene in a timely manner, or to propose candidates. Without now entering into the validity of these proposals, we haven't had a proposal for a full six months, and now as things stand, we have again, and if these two proposals are adopted, there is one place left in the Constitutional Court unfulfilled. That is what the President of the Republic here makes clear and says that he knows that at the end of September of the month, the term of office of one judge to the Constitutional Court stands out, and that he, he, he, he, informs the Assembly, will deliver the proposal in good time. It's been a month and a half since that, we don't have that third proposal at all, it's a constant violation of the Constitution, which can only conclude one thing, that the president of the Republic of Serbia doesn't respond to the existence of the Constitutional Court in Serbia, that he deliberately obstructs and deliberately wants the institution, which is the highest and should be the highest in Serbia, not working. As for the candidates themselves, I won't explain what's already been said, but it just seems kind of symptomatic that the first candidate has a biography described on three sides and the other on one side only. From the first candidate's biography, we see that he has been engaged in various missions, NGOs, etc., which is directly associated with exceptional engagement in the DS. And what's most important in the biography is work experience, here it's only given in two sentences. The two sentences state that this candidate has been an intern since 1989, an assistant at law school. First as an intern for nine years, and later as an assistant, 16 years old, an assistant who's in front of a doctoral dissertation. In my opinion, the second candidate has greater advantages, given that this second candidate is already the Supreme Court judge. There is, in my opinion, one more significant work experience, a better working experience than the first candidate. However, this is probably a deal or agreement between DS and DSS, and for these reasons, the SRS will not vote for these candidates, because it believes that these places should be taken by people who are professional, competent, to be people with high professional titles, which Serbia certainly has.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21869	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the debate is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted a search on the motion to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISIONS OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA For this item of the agenda, you have taken the following: - Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, SRS, Milos Aligrudić - DSS, Miloljub Albianić - G17 Plus, Ivica Dacic – SPS and Veroljub Stevanović – New Serbia and Independent MPs Tomislav Nikolic – SRS, Milos Aligrudić - DSS, Miloljub Albianić – G17 Plus, Ivica Dačić – SPS and Veroljub Stevanović – New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9, 2. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: SRS – one hour, 36 minutes; DSS – one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes, 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four MPs of the SPP, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do they want the word of representatives of the promoters – People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milos Aligrudić and Marko Krstin? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I hereby inform you, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, until the opening of the search, no one in writing filed an application for a word. Before I conclude a unique search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? — Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide on each decision-making proposal in particular in the voting day. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 15th of November 2005, at 11.55 p.m., as a voting day. [[After break – 12.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. Since we continue to vote, because the Assembly has conducted a search, please, at the beginning, let us determine the number of present in the hall. I ask Members to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 127 MPs present in the hall and we can approach the vote. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT AS THE National Assembly has conducted a search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 178(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each Constitutional Court judge individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I propose that the proposal for a choice of Constitutional Court judges be decided by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, they did not vote two out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to decide on a proposal to elect Judges of the Constitutional Court by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Svetislav Bulajic, an assistant at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade as the judge of the Constitutional Court. For 52, against 65, two abstentions, he did not vote 51, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Svetislava Bulajic as judge of the Constitutional Court. I am putting the motion to elect Dragica Marjanovic, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, as judge of the Constitutional Court. For 121 against 44, it did not vote 7, out of 172 MPs. I find the National Assembly has chosen Dragica Marjanovic as the Constitutional Court judge. Allow me, on your behalf and on your behalf, to congratulate the newly elected Constitutional Court judge on my choice. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT DECISION AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE DECISION OF MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. For 169, a abstentioned one, not three, of 173 MPs. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who were tabled by MPs Tomislav Nikolic – the Serbian Radical Party, Milos Aligrudic – the Democratic Party of Serbia, Miloljub Albianic – G17 Plus, Ivica Dacic – the Socialist Party of Serbia and Veroljub Stevanović – New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9. For 170, a abstentioned one, two of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this motion for a decision, which means that the Assembly will have a committee on local self-government after the constitution. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, number 02-2635/05, which was tabled by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 170, they did not vote three out of 173 MPs. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, number 02-2636/05, which was tabled by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 167, six of the 173 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, number 02-2637/05, which was tabled by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 167, 5 of the 172 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. Since we have agreed on the proposals for decisions, I ask, do you agree that the adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – the decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 168, they did not vote four out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 14 November 2005, at 16.45 p.m., indicated that he was a injured member of 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 47, against 116, 9 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 15 November 2005, at 10:15 p.m., indicated a injured member of 92. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 46, against 115, 12 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. The session is closed at 12.45 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21871	The fifth session of the Second Regular Session on 15 November 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.45 hours. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 148 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of MP Ksenija Milivojevic. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 12, 13, 18 and 20 October 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, and on the basis of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 12, 13, 18 and 20 October 2005. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 12, 13, 18 and 20 October 2005. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal to merge the debate. The government has proposed to put the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, with a memorandum on budget and economic and fiscal policy for 2006, projections for 2007 and 2008 and proposals for decisions on granting consent to financial plans for 2006: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities, (g) the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, (d) the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2005. (Natasa Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Before, if you'll excuse Miss Jovanovic, may we approach the plea, did you want to do it by the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) So, before we approach the plea, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21873	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the impudence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and yours, as well as the parliamentary majority, exceeds all limits. We can understand that you are in big trouble with the parliamentary majority, that Minister Lalovic and the other MPs, visiting MPs in the Assembly, draw whenever you need to vote on the agenda. But to humiliate the citizens of Serbia, through the vote and putting on the agenda of such legislative proposals and the humiliation of the MPs, you are humiliating even more than you have humiliated the work of the Assembly, and especially through the proposal to put the law on banks by emergency procedure, and when it has already begun, as you say, working day during the week, to deliver it to the MPs, dare to put it on the agenda by emergency procedure and to combine the work on banks, money laundering, public enterprises, so give us a logical explanation. You, as president, who is always ready in your metaphoral and sometimes likable, very often unsympathic manner and style, explain such moves by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot find excuses for that, and say that the MPs are in their rights, according to this Rules of Procedure, which you have proposed and which most have voted, equated with the rights of those who are so boldly and above all unargumented. I understand that after the vote, which Serbian citizens can see, even though the camera is focused on only one part of the hall, to perform a real stampede. You're just gonna bump into each other with your heads, your hands, your feet coming out of this door. When you vote that you have combined all of this incompatible and you vote that in such a way you have violated and the dignity of those of us who reasonfully criticise you, and the citizens who have to suffer it, you will leave as if nothing had happened. The script is further famous, Mladjan Dinkic will come, propose budgets and laws that are very harmful to Serbian citizens, live harder and worse every day. Do you want us, the MPs who are ready to discuss with you and at all times of the day and night laws that are not good and per citizen of Serbia, to convince us that we must return-to do as you fly out onto this door. With all this, everything's funny to you. You have no idea which debate is being held. If Predrag Markovic doesn't tell you now or tells you - from that point to that point, let's all guess, one by one, which is the law on the agenda, you don't know. You know that the budget is being debated; you say, "Don't knock, you've been pounding on pots and pots for a long time, so you've kicked your ass." Let me tell the citizens of Serbia that this is inadmissible, all with the assistance of such a president of the assembly, who is trying to skillfully banish his undemocratic behaviour and such a relationship and to present himself to be the first among the equal. You, Mr. Markovic, who agree to such dictatorships and blackmails by Mladjan Dinkic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will bear the same responsibility, but remember that in the future, when you propose something like this, your authority, which is undeniably smaller and smaller, and the parliamentary majority, will be below 0.5% or 0.05% for Serbian citizens. That doesn't even happen in local self-government units. Sometimes it happens. (President: Time. ) But it still warns the council that some decision will be included in the agenda. That you bomb us overnight with your unsuspecting proposals and laws and connect us incompatiblely, you will see how further this kind of behavior of yours will take place, along with the amendments that we submitted and wrote neatly, that the debate is taking place. Rest assured, as the people would say, there will be no stone left on the stone, and we will completely dissipate your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21874	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I certainly accept the criticism of the urgency of the procedure. The president has scheduled a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I support the idea that an emergency act should be taken. It is thus possible for MPs to submit amendments until the start of the principle debate, and when it is not an emergency procedure, it is not possible. As you know, the Rules of Procedure are five days early. I think it's important for these things that MPs can go to the beginning of the principle debate, because they are very important laws, you're absolutely right, and perhaps the key laws for the next fiscal year. I support that, and I support your idea not to use one door on your way out, you're absolutely right. You have a door on the right at the beginning, on the right side up, here's the left door and this one. Ms. Jovanovic is not pleased and is asking for the Assembly to plead. Please be kind, you didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you did report to the Rules of Procedure. I've been following your statements and trust me. But if you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21875	I'm now reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr. Markovic, today your very bad rhetorical observation has not come across my sympathies, as you can see neither the parliamentary majority. By making fun of them, and they chose you, which door you should run to, there's enough reason for them to launch an initiative to take you out of that place. If the president, whom I elected president of the assembly, were to make fun of me and humiliate me, at the very least, what I would do is think straight away about starting an initiative to change him. Since you suggested and did not listen carefully, you often hear your ear on one side when we throw something out of your bench. So, you weren't in a situation, and besides these four microphones to hear me, the whole spirit of the Rules of Procedure is hurt by your behavior and such a cynical response. Not only are these laws not urgent, they're a disaster. They shouldn't be on the agenda at all. We don't need your laws. The fiscal policy you're leading for next year is, and according to your mentor's assessment, whose opinion you care about is very bad. So, next time, please let these Neanderthals sitting in the third row, in fact this one, before I asked you, at the deaf hour of the night...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21876	Miss Jovanovic, I give you your first warning. Parliamentarians are sitting in the assembly, possibly proposing representatives, who are not presently presently present. Please, this is the first warning now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21877	Mr. Markovic, if someone's letting out screams, if he's being rude, uncivilized, he's not like the MP, while I'm talking about a very serious injury to the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what else to call it. I apologize to other colleagues who didn't do it. This one, which is who you know it is, I recognized myself and, therefore, I have nothing to explain to him. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, he's absolutely hurt. Don't explain to us what's urgent and what's not. More than once, Mr Nikolic and Mr Vukic warned you, even in the same manner, you had the answer a few days ago, when it comes to the urgency of national security of the state and the people and the question of the southern Serbian province. You are now telling me that Dinkic's law is important to the better life of citizens and that after that everything in Serbia will be right. Don't joke about these things and in such a body president inappropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21878	Thank you. Therefore, the Assembly will plead for the violation of Article 104. I accept your criticism, I have not served any rhetorical observation, nor do I know that it is possible. I don't believe any rhetorical observation is possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses calling a session and organising a debate in principle. In fact, I don't think it's appropriate for us here today to adopt such a provision to bring together five health laws and discuss them together in principle. It's clear what that means. He wants to shorten the debate in principle for five hours. What I'm obliged to say in front of all the members of the SRS is that if you have three system laws in the package, no serious state will allow it. If you add more technical laws here, which you mix with system laws and say that the Rules of Procedure gives you the opportunity to find a connection between them, I congratulate you. Then you can find a link between the laws on religious communities and the laws on health care. But let's leave the irony. The laws were long awaited by the health authorities, as well as by the citizens of Serbia and as many of them expect. In one of these inappropriate ways, by putting five laws into a basket and bringing the debate to a minimal debate, I think it's only a shame to this House. This is what I tell the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens should be aware that the Serbian government and that the assembly majority are referring to very important legislation. You'll agree that health care is, however, a very important thing for every country. What's particularly interesting here is that you have an insurance law that goes according to an emergency procedure, so you've brought it together with the laws that go according to the regular procedure; it doesn't matter what other MPs have the opportunity to make their amendments. Therefore, a ridiculous, shameful galamaticist who does not honor any serious parliament. Yes, gentlemen, the MPs, who are shouting out of these lines, find me where it is in the French Parliament, the English Parliament discussed a set of system laws, and then hear and shout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21880	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. I understand you quoted article 140. But according to a completely different article, Article 162 paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on every proposal to put on the agenda acts by emergency procedure, has previously been decided by the National Assembly without a search. That's where we stopped. So, I read an act that arrived after an emergency procedure and I have to put it to a vote, no search. So it's on the agenda now. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Verica Radeta and then the MP Zoran Krasic reported. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21881	You've been confused, Mr. President, as have the majority of the assembly since last night, because we've crushed your accounts. You did not predict that you would still have to gather today in a number of 126, you did not expect to discuss Boris Tadic's proposal, the model, the judges of the Constitutional Court, but at least admit that it was a good thing that we went into this debate, because if it wasn't for what we drew your attention, you would probably have chosen that lady's sister-in-law as judge of the Constitutional Court, so whenever we take part in the debate, it really makes sense and that's justified. Now I've come forward specifically because of article 140. The Rules of Procedure and the proposal for a joint search. First it's even suspicious, we, you know, got a call for the fifth session of the Second Regular Session on November 7th, and on November 11th, after 1800 hours at the Parliament clubs, we've been sent a bill on banks, and now we have a proposal here on a joint principled search of four laws. But imagine what it is said, the bill in banks, if the National Assembly accepts the proposal to put the draft law on the agenda of the session as the fifth item of the agenda. So this is just amazing, and it's especially amazing that we have a proposal for a merger. We, therefore, have nine points on the agenda, and the actual debate will be conducted only on three groups of government proposals, which is inadmissible. I must remind you of a very restrictive Rules of Procedure, under which MPs have very limited time to talk about a proposal. Imagine, 80 SRS MPs, an hour and a half, they can talk about the budget, and that's amazing. Today we have a proposal to discuss together the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Law on Banks. Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, who proposed this joint search, called for Article 90. Article 90. The Rules of Procedure in the second position say – The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are related to each other, with each proposal being decided separately. While Milosevic Albianic submitted a proposal on behalf of G17 plus, believe me, we didn't have such unbulful proposals. Now I ask Mrs. Snezana Stojanović-Plasic to come out for this pay phone and try to explain to us what the connection between these four draft laws is, where they are conditioned or the solutions in them are interlinked? We in the SRS do not see such a connection, and perhaps Mrs Stojanovic-Plasic will convince us that she is right. But before you vote, listen, you'll see that the lady won't be able to explain this to us, but still, let her try. Mr. President, I'll use it not to go out again, I know I've been allowed time, I won't be pleased with your answer, I know what you're going to say. I demand that the Assembly declare the injury of a member in the 140th day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21882	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I will not allow, of course, Mrs Stojanović-Plasic now, for a very simple reason not on the agenda. It will be called as any proposer to explain when it comes, and now we have stopped at a statement about the first emergency procedure proposal. According to Article 162 paragraph 4, when it is on the agenda of the merger, we will call on the promoter to plead and, as far as I have seen, Mrs Plasic will certainly plead. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21883	Although the practice here is that the President of the National Assembly violates his Rules of Procedure by starting from this crown to these three stars at the end, I have found that the President of the National Assembly during the opening of this session and until the moment this conflict took place has been injured by Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges him to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to show you how he doesn't take care of it. The President of the National Assembly has the custom to contact the presidents of parliamentary groups when the agenda is established, but also the proposings of some of the acts, including these planted MPs, of course, they use their business rights to propose everything and everything, so the proposer could, therefore, put together the agenda, warn of a mental problem that, let's say, there is absolutely no touching point between the amendment laws and the additions of the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest and, let's say, a bill on the prevention of money laundering, and there are even fewer points with regard to the proposal for something we haven't decided yet, this is in brackets - if the National Assembly decides something. I understand, Mr. Markovic, that you have problems, so you've also got the G17 Plus Supervisory Board to control what you're doing here in the Assembly. It's been going through a lot here. A moment ago, when you voted on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, voting in red, you proved that you do not know how to read the Rules of Procedure, and here I read to you specifically what it says in the Rules of Procedure. So you're saying you can't read the Rules of Procedure, you don't know what's written in the Rules of Procedure. You want to force, at some abnormal speed, to push this through, and if we go a little deeper into this debate about the justification of joining some points of the agenda, I just have to warn you, legalists, think, prepare some resolution regarding Kosovo and Metohija, and we have system regulations on the agenda in which you will not see Belgrade, Nis, or Vojvodina, but only the minister and his interests. This is your state-of-the-art policy, and that is why some MPs who, of course, use their rights do not dispute their right at all, but I call on the President of the National Assembly, because it does not care properly and how it is written in the Rules of Procedure that the debate goes in some logical order in this assembly. We do not object to the fact that within the first item of the agenda there are practically six sub-points, because the financial plans of some public enterprises and organisations of particular social interest have been combined, because it has been a practice for 10 years to do so in the package. What goes for a merger from second to fifth and from fifth to ninth points of the agenda, please, simply put, it's a scandal. One more thing to tell you, if you think by joining a principle debate you make the National Assembly more effective, you're wrong. If in principle there is a good discussion of every regulation, then it is much faster and simpler to discuss amendments, and you do not, you are going to conflict. Now you're gathered to vote, so where do you like mine, which is for lunch which is at home, and those who want to work stay to work. We're going to work, and you do the math, because next time after the election, I hope you take advantage of what you put into the Rules of Procedure, and that's that open Saturday, where you have an open door to remember when you were here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21884	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Just looking out for the application of the Rules of Procedure, I must also respect the decisions of the Assembly and the business provisions, and I have said that it is now on the agenda to vote on an urgent procedure. So, according to Article 162, I don't find it difficult to read Article 4 again. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that any proposal to put on the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure of the National Assembly has previously been decided without a search, the president of the Assembly must respect that. Anybody else want to go by the Rules of Procedure? Here is the word of the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an organized group that destroys the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly. The organized group today has between 126 and 128 MPs. If elections were held today, this organized group, which deals here with the collapse of the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, would have between 40 and 50 MPs. You have to keep that in mind when you run this National Assembly. This is not the right acquired, because if the right had been acquired for four years, there would have never been an emergency election, and you socialists, as strong as you have always been, when the situation in society was bad or when you lost the support of Serbian citizens. You are now taking part in something called public deception, so that those who have no reputation and trust among Serbian citizens remain in power. How can they stay in power? By passing laws, laws, laws, by night. Is a good law not discussed enough, not good. You can tell by the ones you've brought so far. Only the law discussed by the opposition can be good. Only an argument by the government's representative on any argument by the opposition can correct the law, or leave it in that text in which it was proposed to the National Assembly. And what do you do here? You want the citizens of Serbia to hate the National Assembly because we dominate it. You would also hate Serbia, in Serbia we dominate. You wouldn't want to have any interest in citizens watching a transmission, static cameras like they used to at no viewers' games. You can see the handsome president of the assembly and the one who comes out for the pay phone. And it's the National Assembly. To make citizens think that the National Assembly is a place where thieves, criminals, corrupt people, people without knowledge, brainless, contentious, bullies, and that's where elected representatives of the people sit. Mr. President, you've been delivering bill proposals and a draft agenda for a session that's always scheduled for Tuesday. You wait, just leave, the secretary to inform the secretaries not to leave after the job is completed, because the material will arrive from the government and because they will arrive for a session of the National Assembly, and then they will try to inform the MPs. On Friday, there was no session, on Friday at 6:00 p.m., you brought here bill proposals to be discussed by an emergency procedure, and then to stop us, because you know it's bank law, and you should arrest half of G17 plus for these banks, Albianic doesn't need you, you didn't steal in banks, I admit, now you're going to put together what connects those laws. It's just a G17 plus company. Does it make sense? Does it have a causal connection? No, it's just a company. And now one minister here is going to explain five laws, not even a minister who is concerned by all these laws, and then one MP will answer, to discuss within three, four, five minutes and to classify five laws, different matter, to focus per minute on each law, and you will stand by and wait, you will be on the phone, when the day of voting comes to show up in the hall again. It doesn't make sense, and then don't wonder why the polls say you're losing your popularity and don't hide the results of those polls anymore. It's not worth it. You want a consensus on Kosovo and Metohija, of course we'll have one. Whoever betrays, don't even enter this congregation again. You're just waiting for a big national topic to point out that there are people in the assembly who think differently from you. However Kosovo and Metohija end, tomorrow we have an emergency session that brings together a debate on seven points, scheduled two days before the session, to make it impossible for the opposition MPs to come out for a pay phone and speak. Don't, Mr. President, remind us of the deadline for the amendment, that I don't remind you what time it is to put the item on the agenda, because if you put it on the agenda three days before the session, I don't have five days to write the amendment. There's no more day. If you put together a debate on five points, then the fifth point that would come to the agenda the day after tomorrow begins today, no more deadlines for amendments. You know it all, you do it, it's called a monkey. Serious people call it that, maybe you know some other expression, I admit, something from the animal world is. Stay away from that, Mr. President. Are we boring you? Stop the assembly, rule alone. You have the president of your country, you have chosen him yourself, you have the Prime Minister, you have chosen him yourself, you want the people's representatives, you want the opposition in this assembly. Rule, you have laws. If not, write them at night, bring them in at night, what will the opposition do to you in this congregation?? What are you up to, the whole rules, the rules that allow the opposition to do something? You just voted on whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, and you are aware of how hurt he is. Now it's apologising you, justifying you that the Assembly said you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. All that the people remember, Mr. President, and the people punish. Sometimes punishment undeserved, sometimes punishable, but the people severely punish. I felt it on my back. I'd like you to feel the people punish you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21886	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Thank you, above all, for your good wishes. Secondly, I know that you respect me very much, but that you think I'm beautiful, really; I'm just quoting: you said that the camera is filming the nice president of the Parliament. So, unfortunately, I can't break any laws, at least disband the Assembly, or disobey the Parliament's decisions, it's not possible, as I can't break elections until the conditions are met. That's quite clear. I thank you for your contribution. We're continuing to respect the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 162(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby put the government's proposal to vote on an urgent procedure. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure). Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure again. You'll get your word right after the vote's over. For 127, it did not vote 14 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion under this urgent procedure. Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21887	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I assume that the ruling majority is in a hurry only to vote to join the agenda points, so that they can approach the vote of the most important acts for them and that they think that they are providing their own salaries and positions for the next few months. What is this about and why everything Tomislav Nikolic spoke of is not only understanding, but even a special resistance, or something that should look like a replica of the views of Serbian radicals. Because people count, which belongs to the ruling majority, we vote the budget tomorrow, the day the president of the assembly sets the day for the vote. With him goes the law of banks and all the living things they can do. He spoke to Pai Momchilov about health laws, all joined together in one basket, so that one parliamentary group that has 80 MPs could speak for an hour and 34 minutes, instead of saying ten or eight hours, as you wish, to deny the right of the opposition to speak its opinion. And to you: well, we've voted another budget, although we've all been told that we're not going to vote; we've passed the most important laws, we've gathered 126, 127 or 128, as much as you want, the thin majority and now people think -- yet they're strong, every time they vote something like that. How strong are you? You are strong by praying only to God every morning in church, those who believe in God, what little they believe in God - don't let the elections come to us. It's -- let's just make sure we don't have a choice. Why? Because all the stick to take can't skip two and three percent, let alone five percent, four out of five parties from the ruling coalition. One can skip the censorship, maybe one more, and the others can't even dream of something like that. So, let's just say that it lasts as long as possible, and when it does - we'll give you the chairman of the board of directors, some board member who has 80, 100, or 120,000 salaries, he's been somewhat hesitant, something suspicious, something he's starting to do with those who want to secede, get out of the way, vote against the ruling majority; give him some board of directors, let him be some kind of director and sort of solve the problem. You, the people who represent power today, criticized here, along with us, former Socialist proposals 1994, 1995, after the 1993 elections in 1996, every time they joined the laws in this way. Every time they put together two laws, three laws, we went out for a pay phone together, you DSS people, along with us. They were Batic, the Petrovic brothers and the others and we attacked the SPS here in the most brutal way -- how could you deny the right of the opposition to speak of each law individually. Now it's changed. Now you've come to those positions and you're showing - five laws, even if those five laws were systematic, because you need to stay in power at all costs and you don't care what happens next. In those laws we can see, we'll leave Tadic more money, let him spend. You could've cut him by 30 million. We won't, we need it. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We'll vote for him again, he'll vote for you again. You attack and criticize each other. The only thing you're saying -- it's going to be a "democratic block" again, and you have to point out that it's democratic, because as a child when it draws a horse, it doesn't look like a horse, it has to write "this is a horse", so you have to point out that it's a "democratic block". There will be thieves with thieves again, because that's what you're saying to each other. I'm not telling you that, but that's what you say about Democrats, that's what Democrats say about you. Gilas says that about Ilic, Ilic says that about Gilas, this one says that I don't know who else from the government, I don't know who you're talking about in the DS. Once again, you will rule well, kidnap, and see the people see only the factories in Serbia being robbed, how everything goes away, and you think that's possible. Well, it's not. Because people don't see any difference between you now. People see you exactly the same and that's why Serbian citizens want to change, so Serbian citizens want to fight corruption. This is how you try to destroy the Serbian parliament, this is how you try to tell the opposition -- you don't matter to us, because we can do whatever we want, we've sat down three of us for coffee and whiskey, and we agreed to force you in the Serbian Parliament to finish discussing five key laws for one country in the same cost of two hours. Now we're going to have about five laws of debate that can't last one day, key to one country. For months, these laws, budget laws, are being prepared, first of all. The debate should take at least 15 days for this law to be valid, and in 15 minutes we will have five systems, the most important laws to adopt, because you are in a hurry to disband a little while, and that the wages continue to arrive and that all the other privileges that the authorities carry with them continue to arrive. I'm talking about leadership, first of all, I'm not talking about ordinary people, who you don't ask a lot of questions about, and they don't even know why they have to vote and how they're forced to do it. (President: Thank you. It's not "thank you" but change it, Mr. President. I was sure that it would be a shame for you to bring the laws together in this way, such as the citizens of Serbia, to see this. You have no argument against this. Come out and tell me, if you have. You don't. You know you don't, but come on, somebody's gonna come out one more time, and they're gonna shut up. We don't want to keep our mouths shut. Question the election. If you think you're very smart, very strong, that you're worth a lot in the people, that a lot of people love you, call the election. Here, I promise you, we'll clean you up from the political scene like so much that we'll be more than half the hall, as Zoran Krasic said, on Saturdays we'll take you to the open door, as ordinary citizens, not as the MPs from your ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21888	I'm sorry, I still refuse any kind of urge to break the law. So I can't discuss the election until the conditions are passed by law. Mr. Vukiæu, since it was under Article 104, in case what they showed up to happen, then the Assembly will declare itself. The government suggested putting the emergency procedure on the agenda... I'm sorry, Mr. Sarovic, you're really trying, I don't notice you. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. Please excuse me. National MP Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. He checked in before I even started reading, Mr. Momir Markovic, too. Excuse me, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21889	Mr. Markovic, I really don't know what that means to mean that you don't notice me. Then I'm going to have to do a little bit more work in the next period and you're going to notice me, and don't forget me, because you forgot I was leaving. Mr. Markovic, I think you're doing another thing that's extremely incorrect again, and that's when someone calls in the Rules of Procedure, you get out of the O.R. and that way... I'd like to ask the chairman to allow me to speak and that my previous time doesn't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21890	I'm setting a five-minute break to keep my passions down.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21891	Thank you all for your patience. According to Business, the MP Momir Markovic is a member of the Parliament. I broke up? You broke up, Mr. Sarovic? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21892	Mr. Markovic, I'm still going to end up being forced to think that you have something personal against me after all. So, the trend continues that you're supposed to forget who answered the word when he answered, all in a desire to interrupt and prevent the MPs from going out for a pay phone and saying what they want. So, you, Mr. Markovic, have, on several occasions, injured certain members of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, Article 140, Article 27, which speaks of your rights and obligations, and you keep doing incorrect things. I don't know, first of all, why, when I went out for a pay phone, a break was made. The main order was that if you're already taking a break, then you're saying that the break is going to be that long and that's what's going to be done. Why are you even setting it up? The next thing you know, if you've already decided to take a five-minute break, then I think it's extremely incorrect that you're not giving MPs a break by turning that five-minute break into a half-hour break, and I don't know why it took this first one, let alone a half-hour break. It's completely unclear why you're so nervous. If you're as strong as you claim it is, if this coalition of yours is as strong as you say it is, if the government is doing as well as you say it is, then, Mr. Markovic, we shouldn't have had any of these problems at all, we should have started the session on time, so that without a problem you vote here what you need, that you don't take breaks, that you don't drag around, that you don't skip the benches five times, but you're working on the Rules of Procedure that you've brought, and I don't think he's any good at all. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure a moment ago when you didn't answer the question he asked you. I think it's high time you started listening to what the MPs are saying and those injuries to the Rules of Procedure that they point to. You obviously think you're untouchable, you think we've forgotten that initiative that we've submitted to discuss your mistrust, or your shift, and if you've already thought you've done well enough, then why haven't you taken advantage of that opportunity that we've generously given you to put a little extra weight here, you and your party, so you can jump from two percent to maybe two percent, and instead you think you're protected as a white bear. You promised that the first time you broke the Rules of Procedure you would resign yourself, and then, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, you resigned once, and then, with tears from the parliamentary groups, mostly yours and some others, you decided, however, to continue on that difficult road that you plotted and for the sake of Serbia's well-being, to stay in that place where you are. So, Mr. Markovic, first of all, start fulfilling those promises you made to the citizens of Serbia... (President: Time. ) Mr Markovic, the only obligation you seem to care about when it comes to parliament is how much time will be spent. I have spent little time, but you should remember that you have allowed representatives of the ruling coalition to speak in the Rules of Procedure for nine minutes. Therefore, I think the minimum, which I am entitled to as the opposition's representative in such a democratic system, is the nine minutes. I certainly won't use more than seven-eight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21893	Mr. Sarovic, it's three minutes max. Mr Nikolic, who I just allowed nine minutes ago, does not call himself a representative of the ruling coalition, and I have never allowed anyone else to address the Rules of Procedure for nine minutes. Be kind, you asked me to work on the Rules of Procedure, and I warn you that three minutes ago, three and a half minutes ago. Be nice, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21894	I thank you, but I certainly hope that the time you've taken from me by the incursions will certainly be taken from this, and the time I have the right to quote certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21895	That's right, but since it's been four and a half minutes before that, I have nothing to tell you. Be nice, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21896	Mr. Markovic, if you have or have nothing to take from, it's really not the parliament's problem. One more thing I'd really like to say is that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure by addressing MPs like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21897	Just under Article 27, I have made it possible for all speakers who have responded, although it is clear that they have not spoken about what was on the agenda, which was according to Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure, and I have made it possible for all those who have come forward to express their views. As you know, I don't consider myself strong or beautiful, as much as I insist on it. You're absolutely right, there was a proposal to vote for mistrust to the president of the assembly. I put it on a statement, the Assembly refused, and those who suggested it, among them also, were those who did not vote to put it on the agenda. The president has to listen to the Parliament's decision. So, I haven't been able to. I don't have any problem. Vote it on the agenda. It'll be a great pleasure. I don't suppose you're happy with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21898	Mr. Markovic, of course I'm not happy with your answer for a number of reasons. Namely, saying that you haven't been able to test how much trust members of parliament have in you simply doesn't stand and give such an explanation from that place is extremely unserious. Mr Markovic, if you from Parliament's post do not have enough authority to have the ruling majority, not even the whole, with 80 MPs of the SRS that you have animated a third of the ruling coalition to support your proposal, you would have wanted the debate on the agenda. The fact that you failed only speaks of you having absolutely no authority. If you had the honour of having, after that, when that proposal failed, you would simply say that you are resigning yourself and that you cannot lead a parliament that has absolutely no confidence in you, because it is clear that we of the opposition do not have that trust in you, just because we have filed for your shift, and also that the second part of this Parliament, the ruling majority, has no confidence in you, because your proposal is not supported. The other thing, whether or not it's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure for nine minutes or not, it's simply a fact and it's very easy to determine. Blagica Kostic spoke, and if you don't remember, please check with your associates or professional services. So that's something you absolutely can't hide. Third thing, you're saying that none of the speakers who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure spoke about the agenda. Mr Markovic, the agenda of this session has not yet been established, so it is absolutely impossible to speak outside the topic, or beyond the agenda. We're talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, and you can't say I'm not talking about the agenda. I'm referring to the Rules of Procedure's injuries in determining the agenda. I don't know why you're calling for Article 162. I didn't even mention that member at all. I mentioned Articles 27, 90, 100, 104 and 140. These are the injuries to the Rules of Procedure I was talking about. So concentrate a little more and a little bit better or ask for the help of professional services, but please do not treat your work so easily anymore, rather than pay more attention to which injuries the Rules of Procedure we indicate here and that you really concentrate that these answers that we give are related to the injuries we have pointed out and that they too are meaningful. So you are thus literally humiliating not only those who report to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but quite all the MPs sitting in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21899	Thank you. Out of respect for Parliament, I'm just quoting the facts. So you're absolutely right, I didn't obviously convince the ruling coalition, and neither did the opposition to vote for it, but once again I remind you, the exact data says that not all representatives of the opposition voted either. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, or you're giving up. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sarovic is not satisfied? That is what the congregation will declare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems it's become a matter of proverbial violation of the Rules of Procedure. The biggest problem of this Rules of Procedure is exactly the time that is divided into parliamentary groups, because, apart from the SRS, no MP group uses its time and that time is thrown into the wind. In addition, for those of us who normally go out by law, which we consider every project you propose, every bill, this time of hour and 30 minutes is not enough. However, the Rules of Procedure set it that way. Now we have to fit in. The biggest problem is that you are now using a second option, and the question is how much is business, but you are using it to put two, three, even five points together into one, and in that hour and a half of the SRS, which has 80 MPs, anyone who wants to go out for this pay phone, only the names of the law cannot count until the time passes. The problem you have with the quorum, and if you'd listened to the SRS when she told you, don't sell out state-owned enterprises, you'd have them now, you might now be able to subdue the boards to everyone who's otherwise unsatisfactory and then you'd always have a quorum. This way, there are three or four public enterprises left, so when you sell them, the question is, how can you hold this loose coalition together? As for the merger of dots, the bigger problem is this second group in which you are looking for a joint search for proposals for health insurance laws, Red Cross laws, health care chambers laws, laws on substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and health care laws. Not everything can be mentioned in an hour and a half. Members of the SRS always fill out that list, after 10 or 15 MPs, it comes out about every item of the agenda to speak and not per minute about every law. And we'd like to ask the minister who imported that tetanus, so it turns out it's just distilled water. Who picks up the money for that? Antitetalban. Next, whoever destroys Torlak, so now we'll have a flu vaccine. Whoever has ruined the companies since 2000, and you were there, except you changed the cards; then no, one group has fallen off. You're very much the same as Chad said in his own time. As for this first group of laws, I see a connection, no matter what my MPs don't see the connection. Because, listen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Development Fund Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, and what makes the link between this first, second and the Bill on Banks, which is fourth, is this third law - the bill on the prevention of money laundering. So far, you've been laundering money through public companies and banks. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21901	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Did I understand you correctly, you pointed out the shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure and did not seek injury. Inadequacy. Thank you. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 November 2005, be put on the agenda. So, as I have pointed out several times, according to Article 162 paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on every proposal to put on the agenda the acts of urgency, the National Assembly has previously decided, without a search, and I am putting this proposal to the vote. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 October 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on banks, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 November 2005, should be put on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the fifth item of the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, five of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the Implementation of Action of General Interest, the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed agenda, and the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Red Cross of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Chambers of Health Workers, the Proposal for a Law on Substances used in the Unauthorized Production of Drug and Psychotropic Substances, and the Proposal for a Law on Health Protection, points 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the proposed agenda. Does MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plavsic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, against two, they did not vote three out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda, in general. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2006 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with a Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2006, projections for 2007 and 2008 and proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2006: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities, (g) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (d) the National Employment Service, which was submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a bill on banks, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a Health Insurance Act, submitted by the Government, 6a Proposal for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kostic, Judge of the Municipal Court in Paracin (put on the agenda for emergency proceedings during the session on 25 November 2005), 7. A Bill on the Red Cross of Serbia by the Government, 8 / 8 Proposal for a bill on health care workers' chambers, submitted by the Government, 9. A bill on substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances submitted by the Government, 10. A bill on health care, submitted by the government. We move to work according to established agenda. Before that, two notices. Before we move on to the first item of the agenda, there'll be an hour's break and we'll continue at 3:15. Because of your obligations and all those who write the amendments, and compared to the discussions we had earlier, so today we're going to be working until 6:00. That means there will be a follow-up in the morning of this 1st item of the agenda. We certainly cannot assess when this united principle search will begin, but because of the importance and what Mr Nikolic has drawn attention to that I have further helped parliamentary groups, notifying them on Friday that they will arrive, but still, not everyone could organize, it will certainly be possible to receive amendments by 15.00 tomorrow afternoon at the Banks Act. Now I suggest a break by 3:15. According to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is made by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21902	I answered in time, before you announced a break, to suggest, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a way of working on what you've decided. I'm taking the opportunity to, in accordance with Article 94. Rules of Procedure, when determining the duration of the principle debate, determine that the principle debate does not last five hours at these points where it is united, but twice as many – 10 hours, because there are a number of mutually different substances from the laws that you have united during a debate. President, that's why it is necessary, while you now have the opportunity to maintain this majority, to make that decision, or, in the end of the day, as you have begun, you might reduce the debate to 15 minutes per bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21903	As you know, when the first item of the agenda is opened, there is a possibility of putting forward a proposal and the president will read it after the debate. I thought it was something that's on the agenda now. Thank you all for your patience and thank you, Mr. Krasic, for the good idea. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. So, according to Article 94(3). The Rules of Procedure may suggest an extended period of time, only then. [[After break – 15.25.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. The year (with the 2006 Memorandum, the 2007 and 2008 projections and the financial plans of the republican organisations for 2006) you received the above draft law, with the Memorandum and the proposals made by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, and there are no conditions that if that proposal were now made at the end of the afternoon... We're discussing, I remind you, I'm sorry, just a second. So, the total time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes, 24 seconds, New Serbia of Independent MPs 9+9 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, SDP and four independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this item of the agenda for the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs – MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, for the SRS parliamentary group – MP Veroljub Arsic, and for the DSS parliamentary group – MP Slavoljub Matic. I am opening a principle search on the draft law and a single search on the proposals for decisions to give consent. Since the proposer's representative is not present, and certainly the Assembly will not work without the presence of the representatives, as so far, I am giving a break until 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, this is the fifth time I propose to the National Assembly a budget, specifically this time for 2006. As you know, we've had one and a half rebalancing every year, but I can say that this is the first time I've really been satisfied with the budget, because some things that are ideal in public finances have managed to achieve this budget. The aim of all public finances is, firstly, to balance the budget, then to reduce unnecessary state expenditures and thirdly to provide as much public investment as possible. Unfortunately, the circumstances were such in 2004 and 2005 that there was not much room for public investment. This is the first budget that has far greater public investments compared to the previous period, and they are over 50% higher than the budget we adopted for 2005. I would like to begin by saying what the objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, on the basis of which the draft budget was also made. First, it is retaining a high rate of economic growth of at least 5% a year. Second, a further reduction in public spending, on the ultimate basis, along with a surplus in a consolidated public finance account ranging from 2.3 to 2.4% of gross domestic product. As you know, for the first time this year after a long series of years, we have managed to secure a surplus in the Republic's budget, and the local budgets this year will end with a surplus of about nine billion dinars, and in the 2006 budget, for the first time, the Health Insurance Fund will also have a surplus. The only government funds that remain in the deficit and whose deficit is covered by budget transfers and privatisation revenues are the state pension fund and pension insurance fund of farmers, as well as the National Employment Service. The third objective of economic policy in 2006 is to further increase exports and foreign direct investment, while further reducing the external trade deficit and current balance of payments deficits. The fourth important goal is to knock down inflation at 9.3% a year, with the relative stability of the dinar course. Finally, not less important, the fifth goal is to continue structural reforms, but this time not only in the economy, but also in health and education, while further improving the business climate. As you know, our economy started the transition process in 2001. I can say that for the first time we can now see the end of this process. In fact, the transition takes nearly five years and realistic expectations are that the transition process should end in Serbia between 2007 and 2008. The transition started with the restructuring of the economy first. The next sector was the restructuring of public enterprises, and finally there was social security reform in the social sector. It started reforming the state pension fund. Now at this session you will have opportunities with the Minister of Health to discuss a set of health laws, which de facto start reforming the health system, and it is planned to create a reform plan for education in the first half of the following year. These are the three key remaining segments in society, which are not yet sufficiently reformed and whose reforms will be implemented in the coming period. As for the implementation of the economic policy measure in 2005, before I begin to explain the 2006 budget, we need to see which starting points we are starting next year. First of all, to remind me, the main objective in the budget for this year was high economic growth, with a significant reduction in the current balance of payments account deficits. That was our primary goal, because last year we ended up with a high foreign trade deficit. And the current balance of payments deficit was 15.6% of gross domestic product. Then after that, as you remember, we took radical measures, such as reducing public spending, limiting wages in the state sector. As a result of these measures, with measures to restructure the economy, we managed to increase exports by 40% this year in the first nine months compared to the same period last year, while imports grew only 4%. The external trade deficit is significantly lower, so this extremely high current balance of payments deficit from last year of 10.6% of gross domestic product this year will be reduced to between nine and ten percent, as the last quarter remains to be completed, so that we know exactly what level it will stop. Of course, the goal is to keep going, because having 10% of the current balance of payments deficits is still high, and it is characteristic of countries that are rapidly developing. When you develop quickly, you have to import more equipment, buy technologies, so that you can export more in the future, so that all the countries and Southeast Asia and China, all those that record explosive growth, actually had high growth and high deficits in the account of the current balance of payments, so that's no exception to Serbia. What's important is that next year, we have a favourable economic conjuncture. Last year, economic growth in Serbia was 8.6%, the largest in the whole region, and I think even in Europe. As for this year, the first half of the year ended with social product growth of 6.1%, so that at the end of this year the social gross product per capita in Serbia will rise to $3,200. Of course, this is not the amount to be satisfied with, because the Croats have almost twice as many of us, and Slovenians four times more, however, it is more significant than those levels we had five years ago. Unfortunately, we lost a lot in the '90s because of the famous events in that period, and now it's time to recover and return, we've already returned to those paths before, but we have to move forward. When you have high economic growth, the challenge of every country that has high economic growth is also slightly stronger inflationary pressures, given that high economic growth is sometimes the result of real economic restructuring, and the good part of it is supported by credit growth. So a larger loan approval means a higher monetary mass in circulation, and if a conjuncture is to be maintained, an slightly higher degree of inflation must be allowed. Of course, I don't want to be unobstructed. Inflation this year will be bigger than we planned and this is the only goal of economic policy that we have failed to achieve in this year, because all other goals, literally from the first to the last – inflation we have failed to bring down – we have managed to achieve, and the greatest result is that we are just shooting down the current balance of payments account deficit, with a 40% export growth. Something else happened this year, which is significant compared to the previous period. The parliament passed over 90 laws only this year, 86 laws in the previous year. All of this has contributed to a significant improvement in the business climate in Serbia. It's possible that we ourselves can't see it when we're watching it from the inside. However, here is the third consecutive publication of international financial institutions released this week, which declares Serbia the country that is making the biggest relative progress in improving the business climate. After a World Bank study, published in September of this year, where we had the largest relative progress in improving the business climate, the European Finance magazine Euro Money moved 62 places on the list of 185 countries in September this year compared to March of the same year. Finally, on Thursday, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is due to present its latest annual report, where it is found that growth has slowed in all Southeast European countries except Serbia. Serbia is the only country that has managed to continue to have high economic growth. It is in a few months the third consecutive international financial institution to assess that there has been a significant shift in the improvement of the business climate. But international institutions can give such or such assessments, whether the improved business climate can only be seen from the inflow of investment in a country. Serbia has had a billion dollars in foreign direct investment in the first nine months of this year. They're growing in the last months 200 to 250 million dollars a month, which means by the end of the year we're going to have a record growth of foreign direct investment, we're going to have between a billion and 800 billion dollars and two billion dollars. In addition, this year's savings increased by $600 million. So new foreign foreign deposits in banks in Serbia increased by $600m this year compared to last year, so they crossed the amount of two billion euros in October. Today, citizens in banks in Serbia hold over two billion euros. Five years ago, there were 20 million euros. What's also convenient, something that shouldn't have happened to us, to drop our agriculture, to drop our food industry in the '90s, is now slowly correcting, because we already have, for the first nine months, surplus in the production of food products and drinks. He's three times bigger than he was in the same period last year. About $200 million is our foreign exchange surplus. Also, we have an increase in surplus 5.8 times of rubber and plastic products. Here I would especially like to commend the factories that are from the area of tire production, so, "Tiger", "Trail" and "Ruma gum". Especially the Tiger made a huge export growth this year. Then, after a long time, we have a surplus in the manufacture of clothing and fur -- $43 million. It is modest, but we export more than we import clothes. As for the production of base metals, we have a surplus of $140 million. In the last year and in the manufacture of clothing and fur and in the production of base metals, we had a trade balance deficit, now we've gone into surplus. What is also significant is the increase in exports of textile products, but these are no longer the old factories, but some new ones that managed to improve their placement on the world market. However, all that is happening in the banking sector, on the one hand, and what is positive, first of all, credit growth, then, foreign direct investment poses an entirely new challenge for economic policymakers compared to previous periods. So last year foreign direct investment wasn't a billion dollars -- $960 million ended last year. It's going to be twice as big this year. The foreign exchanges that come into the country turn into dinars. This puts pressure on the growth of the monetary mass, which also increases domestic aggregate demand. I don't think the central bank at first, since this is really a sudden growth of foreign direct investment, was very good at it. She had to pull money out of circulation far more aggressively, to do so. sterilization of money in the open market, in order to withdraw that surplus money from the optics, which is an excess compared to the real possibilities of our current economy. Also, the credit activity of banks has increased rapidly due to the arrival and foreign banks, and the strengthening of some of our domestic banks, such as. The commercial bank, so the citizens began to become quite in debt. We had one absurd piece of information in September this year, that the growth of trade traffic was at a low rate 40%. Clearly, it was not the result of the growth of real wages, but the result of the borrowing. It is then clear that it is the central bank's duty to limit credit growth, i.e. not to allow citizens to be in debt more than they will be able to handle tomorrow in the cost of the loan war. So we're now in an up-to-date business cycle, where banks approve more loans than we can absorb. It's one paradox, when you have a problem with overheating conjuncture leading to higher price increases than one that would be to have stagnation. So how to balance between these two policies is a fundamental issue that we are facing in the following year. You've all seen that the dinar course has gone far slower than the price hike. The course went only 7% this year, and prices went 13.7% in the first ten months. So there's pressure on the appreciation of dinars, so on the strengthening of dinars, it's the opposite of devaluation, because foreign direct investment increases central bank foreign reserves. They've increased this year to a billion and $200 million. It puts pressure in the opposite direction of weakness, therefore, strengthening the course of the dinars, but the problem is that we must not allow too much strengthening of the course, so as not to weaken the competitiveness of our goods in exports. In that triangle, the need for high economic growth, which we already have, but the need to maintain it, on the one hand; on the other hand, the need for further development of the economy and the need for the population to manifest themselves through the taking of credit and the need to curb inflation, in fact, lies the latest challenge that we have in implementing the measure of economic policy. In order to reduce inflationary pressures, we decided to go to budget surplus policy next year in a row. This year, we expect the surplus to be around 35 billion dinars for all public finances users in Serbia. It's not just a republican budget, it's local self-government, it's also funds. All combinedly consolidated, we expect that the surplus revenue over expenditure will be about 35 billion dinars. If the money was spent immediately, it would further affect the growth of imports and would further affect price growth. So one part of the money is being saved and kept out of circulation in order to make a ratio between the real possibilities of our economy and our standard and what we currently have saved thanks to privatisation, thanks to the reduction of public spending. Simply, if the child develops quickly, that is no reason to put him in the car immediately until he is at least 15 or 18 years old. Our problem is we had a very low start. I'm not going to prename what's happening to us, but after that low starting base, we're going to be on average 5.1% in five years, last year 8.7%, this year 6.1% is half a year, we're going to see how it ends by the end. Next year we plan at least 5% of GDP growth. What is also the reason why we are planning a second year consecutive budget surplus, is the need to fully repay the debts we inherited from the past. We have different kinds of debts. One is external debts and they are mainly reprogrammed and the dynamics of their service are well known. However, we also have a lot of domestic debt. In the last five years, we have paid a billion euros in old savings to Serbian citizens, which was one of the basic conditions why today people are saving again in banks and why it is saving two billion euros. A few days ago, I was in Banja Luka. There, only now, the government has started to pay 30 to 50 euros per savings and there is still no one living saving in banks, but they keep money in straws, regardless of what the Raiffeisen Bank is there, Hypo-Alpe-Adria, Erste Bank, there are foreign banks, there are also domestic banks. However, this trust was not restored because the state did not repay the old debts. You can't win a new trust unless you pay back your old debts. We'll pay back the old savings next year, we planned 270m euros in the budget for the payment of old foreign savings and about ninem euros to settle commitments based on loans for the economic renaissance, the old one from '89. A year. However, we are in a position to settle our debt towards the pensioners, as we have settled our debts to the travel economy completely this year. As you know, we have settled 8.7 billion dinars from privatisation revenues from the road-to-road management for the period 1998 to this year. The debt to pensioners is very large - 45 billion in total, so on the one hand, it's technically possible to do so in a shorter period, but on the other hand, if they were to send 45 billion dinars of funds into circulation, it would certainly mean a great pressure on cash, on prices and on the deterioration of the external trade balance. That's why we decided to settle this debt completely in a few wars, but we started to finally pay our pensions in the current month for the previous month. This started last week for PIO staff insurance companies, with pension increases in the last two months of 10.8%, while payments to farmers increased by 40% compared to what they received a month ago, starts by the end of this week. Of course, it's not easy to settle debts. There are still debts left. The military owes suppliers between 4 billion and 5 billion, hospitals owe pharmaceuticals from 4 billion to 5 billion, but there's about to end all inherited debts from the previous period of the state, so this year we're making the following thing: we're going to go further down public spending, to increase the surplus and create a basis for us to settle the entire pensioners' debt. Secondly, we are making a temporary surplus of 10.1 billion dinars in the Health Fund for the first time in order to fully settle our debts towards the pharmaceutical houses that hospitals have, secondly so that we can bring new regulations on tax cuts and salary contributions next year, because since we will have surpluses in the republican budget, surpluses in the Health Fund, we have objective and credible opportunities to reduce the rate of income tax and reduce the rate of contributions, thus disbursing the additional economy and allowing even faster economic development. As for the fiscal policy that was led this year, you remember that we adopted a budget plan for 2005 at the same time last year, which envisioned a deficit of around 20 billion dinars. Instead of that deficit, we'll have a surplus in a consolidated account between 27 billion and 35 billion. In the first ten months, only the republican budget had a surplus of 15.4 billion, while local self-government also achieved a surplus of 7.8 billion dinars. If we look at what happened in the last two years, since this government took over the portfolio of public finances, the budget deficit in 2003 totalled 3.9% of gross domestic products, and this year we end up with a surplus of 1.3% of gross domestic products. So, in two years, a fiscal adjustment of over five percent of gross domestic product has been made, which has not been recorded in any other country in Central and Eastern Europe in such a short period of time. As for the effect of surpluses, he gave us the opportunity to launch development programs. If it hadn't been for surpluses, the interest rates on subsidized housing loans would not have been 4.5 per cent a year at this point, because they were 11 per cent a year ago. When you go to the recently mentioned Banja Luka, you'll see that that's where the interest rates on the housing loans are 9%. So, in a year's time, thanks to the surplus, we've managed to solve some things. Far from everything being as we'd like to see it, but we now have the opportunity to approve housing loans at a far lower interest rate than before. Also, we have managed to employ four thousand people using micro-credit for self-employment. This year we invested 500 million dinars in the region of Kragujevac, Bora and Vranja. We have set up a Youth Gifts Fund, which has already approved scholarships for graduates, and significant scholarships, 15,000 euros per graduate, and on Monday we decide on a scholarship of 20,000 per month for the best university students in Serbia for this year. So these are also significant funds, because these are more than the average salary in Serbia, but it is our government's policy to stimulate knowledge, talent and those who fight in life to be even better. As far as monetary policy is concerned, our foreign exchange reserves currently amount to $5.3 billion and cover the total monetary mass with 260 percent. With NBS foreign reserves, it can be financed between five and six months of imports. The relationship was only a month until two in 2001. Structural reforms; in the first ten months, privatisation revenues of 38 billion dinars have been achieved in Serbia, with three banks with a majority government capital of 23 billion from privatisation of the company of 15 billion dinars. As you know, the process of reforming the banking system began in mid-2001. The reform will be fully completed next year. It's the sector that comes first out of the transition process. Given the savings that have been renewed in banks, I repeat that savings are over two billion euros, and given the drop in interest rates on loans, especially on housing loans, we can say that we now have a far more competitive banking sector than we had a few years ago. As for interest rates, interest rates fell not only on housing loans from 11% to 4.5% in the euro, but also on the Treasury bonds of the finance ministry. We started a year with an interest rate on our 22 percent bonds in year-on-year dinars, and now the last interest rate at the auction is recorded 14.6% on the annual level. In the first nine months, 316 companies were privatised and a 280m-euro privatisation revenue was achieved. That's almost five times more than all of 2004. A significant business climate has been improved, thanks above all to the new company registration law, the new bankruptcy law, as well as to the launch of negotiations with the EU to conclude accession agreements. Of course, the introduction of value added tax has introduced additional order into public finances, as the grey economy has been significantly reduced, while the value added tax has been charged 40% more in the first 10 months than at the same time since the sales tax. In addition to getting really flattering reviews in World Bank studies, you will see in two days and from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, our international credit rating is twice improved this year. We started with a B plus rating, increased in July to a double B minus and we expect after the end of the IMF arrangement to further improve our international credit rating. As for salary policy in 2005, salaries in the first nine months of this year have really increased in Serbia by 5.6 per cent, which means approximately on the rise in labour productivity, as the social gross product increased in the first half by 6.1 per cent. This is the first time that even slightly slower growth has been real earnings since productivity growth, completely the other way around than in all the years backwards. What happened, very interestingly, in the economy, real wages increased 7.1 percent, and in the economy only 1.8 percent. This is the first year where those who really create income, and these are people in the economy, had a more significant growth in real profits, bigger and faster than employees in out-of-economics, since we introduced pretty big restrictions into spending state money. In fact, this year we set out to strictly control the mass of wages in the state administration, public enterprises and public services, and this year alone in the state administration and public services, the number of employees has been reduced to this point by 17 000. The army was abandoned by 7.5 thousand people, and these are the wave of civilians working in the military, since we started a year with a very unfavourable structure of military employees. At the beginning of the year, 40% of all military employees were civilians, and at this point 35 percent are also civilians. Other armies have about a third or so, even under that third of civilians working in the army. At this point, 7100 people have voluntarily left health institutions with the payment of stimulating severances. That's what happened last month. Another 1,800 are on the waiting list that want to leave, however, the provincial government has not allowed them to leave at this time. We will talk to representatives of the District Government and I believe that we will be able to ensure departure because people voluntarily want to leave these institutions in January 2006. This way we enter the next year with about 9,000 people less in health than we had in the previous period, but based on voluntary departures. As far as health reform is concerned, it will actually make it possible for those who are left to work salaries to grow. In addition to increasing their wages, as in all other actions based on the increase in labour prices for 2006, we will increase the range in health coefficients from the current 1:1,75 : 3.5 to 4:2:1. So the doctor's salary will be four times the salary of an unskilled worker. Of course, the goal is to increase the range in the coming years, as it is perfectly natural to leave a long - run, long - run, health - care worker. Individual salary growth in the following year in healthcare can be expected at between 25% and 30% for doctors and nurses, or medical technicians, as well as high-level people working in healthcare in other services. As far as public enterprises are concerned, we had restrictions on the growth of salary mass in one company to 7% this year. It motivated public enterprises to start volunteering programs to get out of them. So 20,000 people work less today in the basic activities of public enterprises than they did a year ago, with 10,000 people deployed into the so-called so-called. The secondary activities of public enterprises and these secondary actions are now being speedily prepared for privatisation. It's all kinds of motels and restaurants and stuff. So 10,000 people left voluntarily, with stimulating severances, from other activities of public enterprises. The characteristics of employment are that in the first eight months of this year the employment rate in Serbia is 10% higher. So the news is that some people are obviously leaving the public service, public services, and going to the private sector. Maybe the ones who took the severances. We've been doing an analysis, like in health care. Many thought that health care had left those who had retired. However, it turns out that 2/3 of those who left these 7,000 people under the age of 50, which means they have some other job as soon as they took the severance payment. Now he'll do only one job in fact. Apparently they were working and they were getting paid in the state, and they had private practice. This is how the registered number of self-employed workers has now increased by 10% in the first eight months. As for the 2006 budget, after an analysis of the basic developments in this year, here's an opportunity to make the basic budget settings in 2006. Incomes in the 2006 budget are planned at 487.9 billion dinars, expenditures will amount to 448.3 billion dinars, which means a budget surplus of 39.6 billion dinars is planned. In addition to the 39.6 billion dinar budget surplus, privatisation revenues of at least 30 billion dinars are expected to be realised next year. As in previous years, we have provided a conservative estimate of privatisation revenues in the budget. If you remember, in the budget for this year, we predicted that the privatisation revenues would be 25 billion, and in the end here will be about 40 by the end of the year. We predict, however, for the sake of caution, that at least 30 billion will be privatisation revenues next year. We have completed negotiations on two credit arrangements with the World Bank and the EU, so we expect that on the basis of these lines, namely the last tranche of the World Bank's unscathed long-term credit per so-called. The idea of conditions, as well as of macro-financial assistance to the EU. That's where we're going to withdraw 6.6 billion dinars next year. When we add the surplus resulting from the income and expenditure difference next year, plus the privatisation revenues planned, plus this loan, that is, these two loans totalling 6.6 billion dinars, the total resources available to the state, the republican cash register, will be 76.1 billion dinars in excess of expenditure. The main public debt will first be settled from that surplus. The main public debt is 39.4 billion dinars, with the largest share of the waste on the old foreign currency savings, the debt obligation towards pensioners, the loan for economic renaissance, so the domestic head of the public debt is 32.4 billion, and the main of the external debt is 6.4 billion. We have far greater obligations inside than on the outside when we talk about paying off the principal debt. We will also finance different development programmes from the budget surplus, and above all, are housing loans, export credits under favourable conditions, micro-credits for self-employment, funds to boost regional development and student scholarships, and the total amount for this programme is 7.1 billion dinars. So at the end of 2006, there will be 29.6 billion dinars. Once again, 76.1 minus 39.4 minus 7.1 gives that state at the end of the year of 29.6 billion dinars. What are the basic characteristics of the 2006 budget? Three are basic characteristics. First, a significant reduction in public consumption and, on a permanent basis, the amount of public consumption reduction 1.3% of gross domestic product. To make it easier to calculate, 1% of gross domestic product is 20 billion dinars, and 1.3% of gross domestic product is 26 billion dinars. There are three basic items where we reduce public spending. First, subsidies, and maltenes all subsidies other than agriculture. Agriculture remains high subsidies, but we are reducing subsidies for social enterprises, because the aim is to complete the privatisation process as soon as possible, according to the Ministry of Economy plan, it should end by the end of next year and to offer everything that remains in the tender, i.e. auction, possibly to be technically completed in 2007. By the end of next year, all that remains of social enterprises should be offered in the tender and auction process, in order to possibly end the process in 2007. Export subsidies have been abolished, but export credits are being introduced. The subsidies are being abolished because they are contrary to the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and we want to become members of this institution. We started negotiations in October and expect to become a member of the World Trade Organisation by 2008. RTS subsidies are being reduced from 2.3 to 1.5 billion dinars, while a subscription has been introduced in the meantime. Then, as far as other subsidies are concerned, there was a voluntary departure of 3,385 employees in the railways this year, and therefore a relative share of the budget, a railway subsidy, a waste in the gross domestic product, although it is nominally held at the same level. So subsidies are the first item where public spending savings are made and 0.4% of gross domestic product will be saved through a different reduction of subsidies. The second item will be significantly smaller transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations. This is because the health fund will for the first time achieve a surplus of 10.1 billion dinars, which means that the funds previously planned to cover the health fund deficits are not planned in this budget, zero is the transfer of the Health Fund, as it will also have a surplus of 10.1 billion dinars without that transfer. Also, the cost of reforming the Health Fund is 0.55% of gross domestic product. Savings are made in two fields. First, on the basis of this voluntary departure of 9,000 people, the salary fund is reduced and their seats are permanently removed, and the largest number of their seats is permanently abolished. The only competition will be held in December for the reception of up to 1,000 new young doctors and medical technicians. The reception should be completed by the end of January of next year, which means that 9,000 have left and 1,000 are received, 8,000 people are a permanent reduction in health workers, and therefore the salary fund is reduced in the following year. I mention once again, it's about people who have voluntarily left health care. They've already done it this year. So, it's not planned for next year, but we've already made that savings, but it will reflect on the reduction of the salary fund in the following year, with individual salary increases in health care that will be greater than other actions, precisely because the health care has gone into serious reforms, and our principle is -- whoever goes into serious reforms gets some kind of reward for what he's done. In addition, health reform also involves changing the way hospitals are financed. So far, hospitals have made funding requests based on demand, not on actual material consumption, or on the actual number of patients being treated with certain doctors. This next year has to change and move on to the principle of financing only those hospitals and how many patients they have; the more patients, the more funding they have; the less patients -- the less funding they have. It will also start to privatise some properties that are now not used to a sufficient extent in health care, including some banana spas. What the United Kingdom has done to promote the rationalization of a network of health institutions. Ten years ago, the U.K. Treasury Department began to charge rent for all the buildings used by the Ministry of Health. We will not go so radically, since the health minister has very good co-operation with the government. There's no need to, in this way, be bothered more or less to sell extra space, but simply to go into rationalization based on the program that's being created. As for the third item where public spending savings are made, it is generally a salary fund: 0.4% of gross domestic product. Before that, I forgot to say, so the health fund saves 0.5% of gross domestic product, but it increases the transfers of the PIO-agricultural by 64% because we suddenly compensated for this 20.5 pension delay, so the transfers to the farmers' pension fund will be 64% higher next year than this year and amounted to 15 billion dinars. This is significantly more than this year, which means that it improves the material position of those who have been most vulnerable so far, because they have the lowest average pensions, which are farmers pensioners. As for the pay fund in other operations, that savings is made based on the departure of these 17,000 people this year, as I have already mentioned. In the military, too, 20% of fewer people are predicted to serve their military deadline and military schools, with 17,000 people in 2005, the figure is reduced to 13.910. They do not receive salaries, as you know, however, cut the material costs associated with their stay in the army. In the military budget, we've predicted three times as much money for the material equipment of the army as this year. Another feature of the budget is significantly greater public investment. Public investment in the budget will be 52% higher than in the 2005 budget, i.e. 0.3% of gross domestic product. The third characteristic of the budget is a significantly larger developmental part of the budget. I'll give you just a few examples: three times the amount for housing loans, three times the amount for export credits, twice as much for regional development, twice as much for the Youth Fund. Now I would take the opportunity to point out the most significant public investments in the sectors. I already mentioned, for the equipment of the army - three times more, two and a half times more funds for construction facilities in the military. In the field of sports, we plan significant investments in the following year. The budget of the Sports Authority is twice as big as this year. 612 million dinars are planned to build different sports facilities, with the most funds going to go to facilities in the local, outside Belgrade, so, for small terrains, school halls and other facilities - 330 million, and this year there were 200 million. So far more than this year. Then, building facilities for the University in 2009 -- 220 million dinars. A complete reconstruction of the pool in Banjaca - 62 million dinars. The republic has taken this obligation, given that the city of Belgrade has paid more attention to "Tashmajdan". Since Banjaca is on the side, we have decided to reconstruct from our resources the pool in Banjaca, from which it will benefit not only for the European Championship, but also for the citizens living in this area. For sports alliances, international competitions and sports camps - 740 million dinars are scheduled for next year. Then, significant funds for awards to athletes who return from international competitions with gold, silver and bronze medals. The Ministry of Education, the Sports Administration will propose to the government in the coming weeks to adopt a special award rule, which will fixed the prizes, so that it does not depend on the possibility of a budget, but will be an obligation. Whenever someone wins a medal, significant funds will be received, such as our water poloists received $200,000 or euros, I'm not sure now, for the gold medal. (Momir Markovic, from the site: What about prisons? ) I see that Mr. Radicals is being obtained in connection with the construction of prisons and the KP homes. For the reconstruction of prisons and detention homes, 311 million dinars of investment are foreseen. Of course, it also falls into significant investments, given that it is necessary to improve the security of correctional homes and prisons, so as not to have any escapes that we had this year. But one far nicer area is culture. We predicted 6.4 billion dinars for culture. These are really important funds for next year, with key items being capital projects, primarily reconstruction of the National Library in Belgrade and reconstruction of the National Museum in Belgrade -- 40 million dinars each. As you know, both the National Library and the National Museum have, unfortunately, always been in the seal, and in the end, they have just come to order. Finally, the time has come to give significant investments to these capital facilities, such as the Library and the National Museum. As far as publishing is concerned, 140 million dinars are foreseen for the purchase of books, twice as much as in this year, or even four times as much as in the original 2005 budget, and for capital publishing projects - another 15 million dinars. In this way, we, in some ways, repay ourselves to book publishers who asked us to lower the VAT rate. We said there was no way to lower it, but that we would use significantly more resources in the budget to buy books. The first deal was made to make it 70 million, and for this year 140 million dinars were foreseen for the areas. Also, to maintain a court complex at Dedinj 135 million dinars. There are 115 million dinars planned to rebuild the Hilandar monastery next year. As you know, we give between a million and a half euros each year to rebuild the Hilandar monastery. Support Serbian film production -- 130 million dinars. It's the program we started this year. Then, theatre reconstruction programmes in Serbia. For the reconstruction of the theatre in Subotica 30 million dinars; reconstruction of the theatre in Nis - 25 million dinars; reconstruction of the theatre in Užica - 15 million; for the programme activities of the National Theatre in Belgrade - 84 million dinars; for the programming activities of the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad - 48 million dinars; for the reconstruction of local cinemas - 90 million dinars; these are cinemas in places where the private sector is not active and where help is needed; therefore, 90 million dinars plus one programme that we are introducing for the first time, which is the payment of national pensions for 100 prominent independent artists in Serbia. As you know, there was a concern of a certain group of independent artists, mostly painters, vatars and other independent artists, that the new law on contributions would make their material position worse. We would like to point out on the one hand that the interest of the Serbian government is that the most prominent independent artists are particularly doped out of the budget, whether 30,000 dinars will be paid monthly in the name of larger contributions, so that they will have higher pensions in the future, whether, if they are retired, they can receive about three times the average pension in one month, in addition to the pension they otherwise receive. Of course, the choice of these independent artists will be made by an independent expert commission outside the government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Ministry of Faith has provided significant funds for the reconstruction of religious objects, maltenes, all of what the Ministry of Faith has received as requirements for repairing various religious objects, all religious communities, will be fully realised throughout the year, so 190 million dinars, 150 million for those objects that are not protected by the state and another 40 million for religious objects that are monuments of culture and are protected by the state. A brand-new programme is being launched, which is investment for tourism infrastructure. In fact, this year a significant part of the growth of the social gross product will be stimulated precisely by the growth of services. This year we managed to have 40% more foreigners staying in Serbia than last year, so we can expect significant revenues from tourism in the future. So far, the main destinations for foreign tourists arriving in our country are Belgrade and Novi Sad, so large cities. However, Serbia's Tourist Organisation, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, has drawn up a plan to develop tourism in the coming period and have located some places where significant effects could be obtained, both foreign and foreign, as a result of tourism development in those areas. Of course, the funds allowed us to allocate 922 million dinars for tourism for next year and that is two and a half times more than in 2005. The idea is that the state invests in infrastructure, in municipal infrastructure in certain locations that tourism development experts have determined, and then, based on these state investments, the private sector builds restaurants, hotels and all other accompanying facilities. For the following year, the following sites were selected for infrastructure investment, and these are: Stara Planina, Palic, Divcibare, Sokobanja, Golija, Vlasina and Kučevska Mountains in eastern Serbia. So there are also mountains, spas, all regions in Serbia relatively, with the leadership that will invest most in those locations that can quickly recover funds. About half a billion dinars are planned to build border crossings. We must finally make a border crossing at both Croatia and Macedonia's border. As for other investments, I missed to mention, the most investment will be in the area of agriculture, so 5.4 billion dinars for farm equipment, 3.5 billion for long-term and short-term agricultural loans, making up the largest part in the long term, and two billion to support rural development, so to help farmers build some auxiliary facilities and improve their position. I would like to say that by today, about two billion dinars from the 2005 budget have already been placed in long-term agricultural loans and 1,400 farmers have received long-term agricultural loans, and that is the value of 24m euros. So this year, 24m euros has already been placed in long-term agricultural loans, and by the end of the year another 250 farmers are planned to receive loans, because they are granted and should be released from the remaining budget for this year. As for other investments, the health care plan plans 2.4 billion investment for buildings and equipment from the budget, but as you saw in the budget plan, we also propose borrowing from the European Investment Bank for the modernisation of clinical centres in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. As far as budget revenues are concerned, as I said, they will be 487.9 billion. The most significant revenue will be VAT revenue this year, a total of 52% of total revenues will be realised by VAT. So 17.8% of total revenues will come from excise duties, 12.8% of income taxes, 9.8% of customs revenues, 4.6% of non-tax revenues, 2.3% of profit tax. This revenue projection was made assuming unchanged tax rates. Therefore, no amendments to any tax law which would have an effect in the following year are foreseen in the following year, but are envisioned to propose a law on synthetic income tax on citizens, but which would start to apply from 1 January 2007 and would reduce the rate of income tax. We also plan to propose, in the second half of the following year, an amendment to the Law on Contributions, where we would reduce the rate of contributions to health care in order to reduce the total burden of pay by taxes and contributions as I have promised you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my term of office. I would like to recapitulate the public expenditure structure in 2006 compared to 2005. If we divide the budget into several large continents, we can see the following trends. So, in the 2006 budget, compared to the 2005 budget, the participation of people's salaries in the state administration, following material costs, subsidies decrease significantly, transfers in compulsory insurance organisations are also reduced due to surpluses in health care, transfers at other levels of government are reduced due to savings in the army's salary budget, due to this departure that I mentioned in this year which has already been made, and this is five items where we have expenditure cuts, i.e. in expenditure structure relative to the 2005 budget. On three items we have increases - public investments, development programs and, unfortunately, debt payments. We've spent 43.3 billion on paying off our debts this year, and the next we have to spend 62 billion dinars. That's precisely because we include paying back some debts from the previous period. So domestic debt has now grown rapidly because opportunities for its service have been created. This structure of the budget is literally what is kind of a model of budget-making, only it would be even better if public investment were even bigger. So what's missing from this budget is even more public investment. Our goal is to create a basis for further increasing this capital part of the budget through this permanent reduction of public spending and through the growth of gross domestic products. However, this is the first time that we have managed to increase the capital part of the budget since 2004, and therefore I think that the final structure of the budget is going in a good direction, although it can certainly be even better if the capital part is even bigger because it is the ideal. The idea was that only as many people as needed in the country and that people pay less taxes and contribute to support them, and that the largest number of people work in the private sector where the state does not contribute, but only creates conditions for them to generate their income. So that's exactly what we're doing, trying to reduce public spending, to open up bigger space to private investment. There's one more important thing I wanted to say about the cost structure. When we mention the salary budget, I have to say that the Republic government has been acting pretty rationally this year, because 3,000 people have left the government by July, and a 10% reduction has been achieved. However, there has been growth and wage cuts in local self-government. Local self-government had a salary increase of 30% this year, which is far more than any other area and any other activity. As a result, Article 19 of this Law introduces a restriction on salary growth in local self-government, up to 9% compared to the amount of salary paid in October for September. In other words, the mass of wages paid at the bar on the name of September's salary, and payment was made in October, that is the starting point. This mass can be increased to 9% in the following year for all local self-government. Cities and municipalities will be obliged, according to this Article 19, to report to the finance ministry on salaries paid in the previous month no later than 15 in the current month, starting in January 2006. Also, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, if cities and municipalities do not plan in their budget decisions for 2006 and do not implement the total payment funds as explained in this way, the Government may suspend the temporary transfer of funds to local self-government until the amount of salaries is in line with the limit set out in the terms of this article. In other words, we managed to control the mass of salaries in government, in public enterprises, in all public services. The only sector that has been completely out of control is the implementation of a macro-economic wage policy, it's local self-government. I don't mind that utility prices are harmonised, because I know that many prices aren't economically rational, but it's not allowed to increase the price of utility in some local environments, and then most of it goes to profit payments, or to create new jobs, and the same job can do far fewer people. If we're going to rationalization in health care, in education, in the state, in the government, then we need to take care of the place. We can't and we don't want to interfere with the independence of local self-government, but we're going to have to determine a policy through the pay limit, which will then have to be respected. In other words, local self-government can have an individual and higher salary growth of 9%, but only if they rationalise the number of employees. Secondly, they don't have to fire any workers, but that means they can only have a 9% salary increase. So we're not gonna get involved in this. Every local self-government needs to decide what's better. In this way, for the first time in 2006, we have established control over all parameters of macroeconomic policy, because never so far, and you remember, we have not discussed the budget of the Health Fund as detailed as we are now, nor of these other social security funds, the level of local self-government. For the first time, we have the opportunity to observe a consolidated public spending balance, and that is some progress that happens in the Ministry of Finance's work methodology itself. I would now also like to give you state data, i.e. on the revenues and expenditures of social security funds, because I have not done so yet, nor do I remember that the previous finance ministers have done so. Mostly these budgets and funds were adopted without much debate. First, I will start with the revenue and expenditure of those funds that will achieve a surplus next year. As for the Health Fund, the health fund's revenues of 114 billion dinars are planned, and expenditures will be 103.8 billion dinars, surplus is 10.15, about 10 billion dinars. The pension fund of independent operations, they will have a surplus of 2.9 billion dinars next year. It is a fund made up of independent businessmen and they make very good contributions and have had surpluses for the past few years. However, it is a relatively small fund. The total revenues of this fund were estimated at 11.9 billion, expenditure 8.9 billion, so then the surplus is about three billion dinars, 2.9, because of the decimals I didn't round up. It's two funds that will have surpluses in the budget. In addition, the surplus will also have a republican budget of 39.6 billion and local self-government, this time we plan to make it about two billion, although this year we expect that there will be as many as nine billion surpluses of local self-government. As for other funds, they still have a deficit, so the deficit will be covered by transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget. First, the pension government fund will have a deficit of 84 billion dinars next year and will amount to the budget transfer, to fully cover the deficit and ensure 12 pension payments in the following year on such an increased basis as they are now and, of course, with the legal alignment that follows. The total deficit of the state pension fund will be 4.55% of gross domestic product next year. Gross domestic product is growing, thus slowly reducing the participation of deficits in the total gross domestic product, which was the goal of reforming the pension system. On the other hand, one third of the total income of the pension state fund will come directly from the budget, and two thirds of the contributions the fund itself will collect. This is an improvement in the position of the PIO staff fund, given that more funds are now relatively realising than next year's contributions, than they did this year. As for the farmer's fund, or farmer, a 15.6 billion-dollar transfer is planned to cover the deficit in the fund. Unfortunately, only 10% of all income from farmers' funds comes from contributions, and 90% touches Serbia's budget, covers the deficit in the Farmers' Fund, plus we have an increase, and absolutely and relatively, however you will, the expenditure on agricultural pensions. The total transfer will be 15.6 billion, and the fund itself will have a total income of 17.5 billion, of which 15.6 from the budget. So, out of 17.5 billion, how much will the Pension Farmers Fund earn, even 15.6 will come from the Republic budget. Finally, the National Employment Service has revenues planned for 21.3 billion dinars, with 50% being charged out of contributions and 50% from transfers, so transfers will amount to 10.8 billion dinars to the National Employment Service. Of course, these funds will be used for unemployment benefits, as well as a billion and 300 million dinars are planned for active labour market measures. It's a program that had a billion dinars this year, but over it and for the next year we're planning micro-credits for self-employment worth a billion dinars. I failed to say, when we talked about balanced regional development, that in the following year, the programme for employment in the Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje regions will be extended to other municipalities and that we have doubled the funds compared to this year. I think we're slowly entering the stage of development, when we need to make serious criteria for region's underdevelopment indicators, to move from subsidising businesses to subsidising regions. It is practice and all EU countries. Specific enterprises cannot be subsidized. This will take another two years for us, but underdeveloped regions can therefore subsidize, that is what all other countries are doing, to improve development. As for the transfer funds in local self-government, they are planned for 15.4 billion dinars. They carried out 13.8 in the previous year. We will propose this law on the distribution of transfer funds to the Assembly at the first next session. We are left to reach an agreement with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. I have to say that I remember my promise, which I made a year ago from this pay phone, that by March we would make a new law on funding local self-government, but we agreed that this law, in fact, would be made up by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, so that we from the republican level would not interfere with the distribution criteria and allow the locality itself to make that law. The bill in the draft is made, however, not in March this year, but ended at the end of the summer. However, the gentlemen of the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities did not make a simulation. The moment we released the simulation of that law on real data, we came up with some data that was probably completely contrary to what those who wrote the law wanted. I believe that the most realistic thing for this year is that we transfer to municipalities linearly increased compared to last year's transfers, or, if you agree otherwise, that is, the Permanent Conference of Cities, to create some criteria. The example works, at the meeting we had, Zajecar complained that he was getting significantly less funds than Bor, and given the number of inhabitants. Then their representative, who participated in the bill-making task force, gave the parameters on which the transfer would be even smaller than Bor, so that the data is such that I do not believe that the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities themselves will eventually accept to propose the law. By the way, I'm willing to just technically put it on the Assembly, and possibly discuss and vote here. So, I don't have any pretents to interfere with the creation of a law on criteria for the distribution of funds of local self-government. What's my obligation, as finance minister, is to determine the total amount of funds and it's possible to be 15.4 billion then. How this will be distributed, if there is no agreement between the municipalities themselves, then we will increase the same criteria linearly by the same percentage to everyone, along with some possible corrections for those municipalities that had deficits this year, these smaller municipalities, so that we can make a balance. Definitely, there have been words on the Finance Committee today, there is a need to think much deeper about the balance of regional development, because the fact that large centres are developing far faster. I don't think it's just Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, I'd say it's some other cities. There are a lot of cities, smaller municipalities that have to be encouraged in another way, because if we just let go of the market, we won't be able to achieve the objectives of even development. I would also like to say something about the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, given that there have been many words before that Serbia is threatening a debt crisis. You see for yourself, although it is true that the amount of public debt is increasing and that it burdens the budget more than last year, as much as two and a half percentage points in the expenditure structure are higher expenditures for public debt repayment in 2006 than in 2005. I would like to say that our level of public debt is three times smaller than it was five years ago and on August 31st 2005, totals 9.7 billion euros or $11.9 billion. So, the state of public debt, that's what the state owes, without private debt, because the state does not guarantee for private debt, is 9.7 billion euros at the end of August of this year. Of that, the internal debt, the obligations towards our citizens, accounts for 3.9 billion euros, the external debt of 5.4 billion euros and guarantees, which is also external debt, 0.4. So we could say that the external debt is 5.8, and the domestic debt is 3.9 billion euros. However, debt payments in 2006 have a different structure, as external debt payments are higher in some years, since we have been reprogrammed and we have some grace periods, so that external debt payments are increasing in some future period. Next year, out of this 62 billion debt payments, 35.2 will go to pay off the domestic debt and 26.8 billion to pay off the foreign debt. As far as the structure is concerned, I've already said, the most domestic debt goes to pay off the old foreign currency savings. I said 270m euros, and I'll make it right, 246.5m euros, ninem euros for a loan for Serbia's economic rebirth. Another debt is due, these are the bonds of the National Bank of Serbia, which have been reprogrammed for a period of five years. Even three billion majors come to us and we get interest that's symbolic. So, the biggest domestic debts we'll be paying off next year are old foreign savings, a loan for economic renaissance and NBS bonds. In fact, it is a debt based on a primary emission loan approved by the previous National Bank to the Serbian government. The time has come for the government to repay the NBS debt. As you know, a law has been passed that has reprogrammed these obligations by 2010. However, the first charge comes at the end of next year, December 31st next year. We put that into the debt payment plan. As for the old foreign savings, about 97% of the savings have already been paid. They're all the ones who had less or medium stakes. The others are so-called. It saves the middle and the bigger. Those who have the rest of the savings, what they have left after payment, up to 10,000 euros, will be paid 546 euros next year. Those who have 100,000 euros left will be able to count to 6,110 euros, and those who have a million euros -- 61, 750 euros will be paid in next year. Otherwise, so-called. The contribution to the old foreign savings bonds fell in the last three years at 20 and some percentages on only 4-5% a year, which means that trust has been established and that, because the state regularly returns, on 31 May of each year, as far as the law provides, a contribution to old foreign savings bonds has fallen, which is a good indicator. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the end I would like to thank you for your attention, to say that Serbia has had difficult days since 2000 in the transition process. Every country that went into transition had problems. But look, the hardest part of the reform is behind us. Now I can say it very openly. The most difficult part of the necessary reforms, often politicians like to say -- pain reforms, that's behind us. Everything that was most difficult went through with this year. What's left now, of course, is further structural adjustment, and there are still companies that are socially owned. It should be over by the end. However, the problem is far smaller than it was. Finally, we are now, with a reduction in public spending, with this budget surplus and a surplus in the health fund, creating a basis for further tax cuts and contributions. The most real thing is that it will be adopted next year, and it will start to apply from 1 January 2007, to have even more favourable conditions for investment. What's good, no matter who's from which party, I'd like to say that Serbia is on its way again. It's true that we lost a step in the last decade with some of our competitors yesterday, but I'm sure we can, maybe not so fast, but we can catch up with them. First of all, I mean the Croats, they're our biggest competitors in the region. As for our position, more and more foreign companies are opening regional centres in Serbia. We have several large American companies that have moved their regional centres from the Balkan region to Belgrade, such as Coca Cola, such as Ball Packaging, Microsoft, which has opened the fourth development centre in the world right in Belgrade, which means we have a lot of intelligent technical labour and engineers, because they have only opened development centres in America, China, India before that. You know that China and India are countries with the fastest development in recent years, including, possibly, some countries of the former Soviet Council, like Russia and Ukraine. I definitely think we have a chance that what we've always learned is that Serbia has a good geostrategic position, that we finally start to use in economic terms, in conditions where we have peace in our country. So I really expect to have a constructive discussion about the budget. I hope most of you will still support this budget. I am convinced that this is another step forward in relation to the budgets we have adopted in previous years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21907	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, a word? An authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Slavoljub Matic, reported. Just one notice, so someone doesn't misread your affection when you were talking about publishers. I'm very fond of it when it grows to publishers, just so someone doesn't think it's personal to me. So in this term four times the company's income that I founded on that basis is reduced, so double, that means twice as much, so it doesn't cheer me very much. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21908	I want to state the DSS position, which will support this draft budget. We believe that this draft budget deserves the attention not only of the present MPs, but also of the general public. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I must conclude, looking at today's press and press a few days ago, that the press in Serbia is not paying any attention to the most important document that once-a-yearly parliament brings. When the issues in this society are important, I mean, first of all, the development of the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia, we can see that our press, our public, is moving towards the so-called. affairs or some topics that have nothing to do with reality. Unfortunately, this is also reflected through the work of this parliament, which is also needed to be hard at certain times, but, above all, complicated when it comes to very important legislative projects and when it comes to what we all agreed on, which is the Serbian road to Europe. What we are presented with is not only the draft budget for next year, but also the macroeconomic frameworks for the development of the budget and, in particular, the macroeconomic plan for the next three years. I would like to point out that these are development plans that mean, first of all, gross social product growth, average growth at an annual rate of 5.7%. In the first two years, we will have a 5 per cent growth, as it was during the previous year, and a 7% growth is already planned for 2008. That's one realistic expectation. I think the minister is absolutely right when he says that a painful part of the transition is behind us and that Serbia is expected to move forward through a better life in the coming period. That's, of course, the most interesting thing for all of our citizens. Also, in the macroeconomic framework for the next three years, we can say that fiscal surplus is also planned. I will remind you that in 2004, by making a decision on the 2004 budget, that was about April of the month, we had a planned deficit of 40 billion dinars, and that we will have a surplus of 39 billion next year, which means we have come our way by one billion euros from deficits to surpluses. The surplus is planned for the next two or three years, and we at the DSS think it's a good plan that allows for one macroeconomic stability and, above all, the possibility of planning for a longer term in a business life. Then, we can say that what is expected for the next three years is that fiscal policy will in particular ensure significant adjustment on the part of public expenditure and relatively reducing the share of public expenditure in the gross social product at a sustainable level, based on reforms in pension insurance, health, education, defence and security, state administration, restructuring of public enterprises that are being donated from the budget. Afterwards, the transfer of the public spending structure towards reducing the share of expenditure on employees, the purchase of goods and services, pensions, costs, social protection, subsidies, and the increase of capital investments and the cost of payment of interest. That's a good plan. In fact, consumption needs to be rationalised and that money should be channelled into capital investments. These are the plans to be seen through the projection of the new budget for next year. What we lack is this synthetic income tax, which collects different types of income and taxes the total amount of income. I hope we can pass such a law over the next year. It's too bad it's not applied before. I don't think that deadline has to be January 1st, 2007, maybe sooner. I think that clarity in fiscal policy, in these burdens, in wages and other taxes, is beyond necessary, so that these foreign investors, we expect much from foreign direct investment, have a special motive and special security when investing in our economy. What we also expect is equal tax treatment for all market participants. I have to point out this opportunity and what we heard on the Finance Committee, to ask the Minister what the state's revenues are, not just from the tax on large budget bonds, and in particular what dividend incomes are on ownership in enterprises that are partly in the hands of the state. I can't help but take this opportunity to ask how much Mobtel's income is to this country. How is it possible that Councillor Mobtela, Mr. Bogoljub Karic, has a monthly salary of 200,000 euros, while the state has no income at the same time, and it is well known that the state owns it, I am sure, over 60 or 70 per cent of the capital. How is that possible? I know how it was possible while the radicals were in power, because Bogoljub Karic was with them minister in government, but I also don't understand how it is possible today. Please be quiet. Now I see who's the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21909	Don't question the chairman. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21910	The burden of transition of people certainly feels on their shoulders and I suppose it would be much easier to bear that burden if such powerful men, such as Bogoljub Karic, were also burdened with this burden of transition. We are more than sure that this equal treatment of all before the law is necessary in order for all of us Serbian citizens to bear the burden. When we make a budget to know that we expect that burden to be borne by everyone, especially those who in a very suspicious way have acquired huge capital. That's what I want to end up with. So, first of all, we expect some legal regulations to be amended that will stabilise our market, and in that sense I expect co-operation from all parliamentary groups, and especially one of the biggest parties in Serbia, and I mean radicals. There's no need for us to be different about some important things. A single dose of national unity is needed for the implementation of the 2006 budget. We expect to stabilise opportunities in the negotiations, especially around Kosovo and Metohija, and then we need this state stability in relations with Montenegro. It all takes one internal stability and, above all, one very serious legislative work, and I don't think there is any difference in the motives of the MPs present here. In this regard, I am more than sure that this project will pass through the National Assembly for the next year, budget projects, and that the Republic Government will also have a chance during 2006 to ensure life and normal progress throughout the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21911	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic called, and then you will have the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about what Slavoljub Matic said, the failed President of the Municipality of Požarec, I must tell you, Mr. Matic, that you must have an elementary education and that you are politically educated when you speak smarter than yourself and when you speak to Serbian radicals, all from first to last, and most of us here, when you address the Serbian public, when you address the Honored Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Stefan Zankov. You must know, Mr. Matić, that the area you have now tried to defend in a very ignorant way not to be close to you, but if the entire DSS has no better candidate than you to be an authorised representative and defend Dinkic's budget, then everyone needs to be publicly burned. That's what I'm serious about. On the other hand, when you're already dealing with facts, you know that even when you don't know anything, as you don't know. First, it took Mladjan Dinkic to inform you that he is beautiful with Bogoljub Karic, that they are now as two brothers born, that they have traveled well together, that they are in fine, normal relations. As a representative of the headquarters of this coalition, you attack Bogoljub even though he's a friend of Junior's now. On the other hand, you need to know when the radicals were in power who was with them in the coalition. And if you knew something, as you have no idea about anything, you would know that Bogoljub Karic was never in any coalition or government in which the SRS was in. How can I explain it to you, Mr. Matic, when by the year 2000 here in the benches, and before that there were only 5, 6, with all the Kostunica who sat in the second row, there were no DSS MPs. Your idea book was a congregation and you really don't know anything about it. And don't show the animosity you have toward your colleague Arsic, which is in every respect, and as a radical, and as a man, and as a fireman, superior to you, the failed president of the municipality, and those complexes you have, you treat elsewhere, because you will always go bad when you call us in such a way, in an unskilled and in a way that is unique to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21913	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you are, the first replica of the People's MP, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21914	I am reporting for the replica because Mr. Slavoljub Matić has brought forth a series of untruths at the expense of the SRS. I ask a simple question: Mr. Matić, why are you asking Minister Dinkic about Bogoljub Karic? Perhaps it would have been better if you had asked that question to former Minister Djelic, who you voted for and who has freed Bogoljub Karic from paying taxes on extraprofits. Perhaps it would have been better if you had asked former Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who was the vice-president of the Republika Srpska government in which Bogoljub Karic was minister. That's the police minister you voted for, Mr. Slavoljub Matic. It would be better if you asked the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Jocic, what's going on, he certainly has instruments to expose Bogoljub Karic, because the government is with you, Mr. Matic. Why don't you ask Mr. Minister Stojkovic about Bogoljub Karic and why he's not where he needs to be. Why don't you ask the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Slavoljub Matic? Ask them, they're your members from the DSS. Don't accuse the SRS of anything. You are now in a position to clear that phenomenon up, so clear it up. If not, the SRS will certainly clear up the next election. That means, if you're not clearing it up right now, you're dealing with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21915	Thank you. The minister spoke to him earlier, and he also said the minister gets a word when he asks for it, according to the Rules of Procedure, but the minister answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21916	I was expecting to have a professional budget debate here. Of course, I'd like to take the opportunity just to answer two questions. One question Mr. Matic asked and another question is what you were saying. The question asked to me, as finance minister, was about dividends from public enterprises and budget payments. This year, about 5 billion dinars were charged dividends from various public enterprises, NIS, Telekom, Belgrade Airport, Flight Control and a little "Official Messenger". These are public enterprises that have achieved a positive business in this area that we have had space to, as in all other countries, ask that one part of their profits be paid into the budget. It's usually a common practice. We plan to collect from these profitable companies next year as well. As for Mobtel, as you know, PTT offered the gentleman who presented himself as a new co-owner in Mobtel, Mr Martin Schlaf, one protocol that implies that the relationship between PTT and the new co-owner is properly arranged, but in order to go into joint work and form a joint board, it is a prerequisite for the entire debt to be paid in December on the basis of the outstanding dividends established in the company's books. The debt is 2.1 billion dinars, or that's about 28m euros. It's a debt without interest, it's basic, capital debt. As to whether or not it will be charged, we will see in the next month. If no agreement is reached on the payment of these dividends, then the state will sue the new co-owner and then the process for issuing a third licence to the new mobile operator will be accelerated. What is safe and related to state participation in Mobtel will be sold in an international tender, but only after the end of the arbitration in Zurich. So much for these dividends. So dividends are charged by public companies that have profits, they will be charged by Mobtel and that debt could be charged in December, and yet it depends not only on one side, but on both. If this side does not accept it, then the state will have to go with sharper measures towards the new co-owner. Also, now something you have asked and which has nothing to do with the budget, I have never been friends with Bogoljub Karic, nor will I ever be even a acquaintance in my life, let alone a friend of Bogoljub Karic. Unlike some who change their minds, class thinks one thing, hour another, even though you've introduced me to what I think and know one another once, I can never change. We didn't travel to Japan together. In Japan, Mr. Karic, I saw this from the media, was staying in private. The man paid his way out of his private pocket, met privately with whom he met, had no official meeting. As far as my trip is concerned, that's where I was staying at the invitation of the Minister of Finance of Japan. I am the first finance minister from Serbia to ever meet with Japan's finance minister, and Japan is the second world economic power. With all these institutions, which I had a conversation with, are Japan's Finance Minister, Japan's International Co-operation Bank, Japan's Export Institution, Toyota companies, Japan Tobacco, Mitsui and others. None of them mentioned the Bogoljub Karic at all. So what he showed on his television, it was his personal experience about Japan. But he didn't officially stay there, nor was it thought to have visited Japan at all. It's just like when you go somewhere private on a visit, you have the right to do it, but it can't be compared at all. That's where we never met at all. According to news reports, he left Japan on Monday, and I came in on Sunday afternoon, we haven't seen each other at all, nor have we met. Also, even the ambassador did not receive it officially, as he said on his television, but was already on the Japanese side. But those are questions for him. Time goes by, time goes by, I said - while I am who I am, nor will I ever associate with Bogoljub Karic, nor will I make any political coalition with him. In other words, I will never sit in any government with him, because people who have taken so much money from the people of the 1990s and made such an easy way can never be my friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21917	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. Since we do not have time for the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, today we will only hear an address by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament Zoran Krasic, and tomorrow we will continue our work at 10.00 hours. I don't see why I'm so impatient. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Be kind, as I said, for the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, who speak for 10 or 20 minutes, there won't be enough time, and, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21918	Mr. Markovic, you have abused the fact that Mr. Zankov before you led this session and you were unable to hear what Mr. Slavoljub Matic said from this pay phone. Of course, I'm referring to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. He was very insulting, and since it is offensive, it is not worth talking about some facts, slanders, etc. He made a couple of big gaffs. First of all, the present MPs were called - the parliamentary public. I don't know what that means. These are some new terms here in our congregation. However, anything can be expected from the DSS, like that Justice, it is proactive. If anyone can explain what they're thinking, it's an honor. Next, he was talking about some connection between Karic and the SRS while we were in government. He still said he knew it well. In no sentence he tried to point out a fact, but therefore inappropriately offended the finance minister, he insulted his coalition partner, because instead of asking for information internally about what these, which does not arrest Karic, the public has been informed from this speaker that the government is not functioning. He says - I ask the minister what it was with Karic, that no one jumped him, and we all know he makes 7,000 euros a day. Believe me, there's probably no one on the globe. Share what is reported monthly and boasts - about 200,000 euros, in the number of days, so you will see how much he receives. President, since you're taking care of the Rules of Procedure, so we don't get into a very awkward situation, if we're defending Minister Dinkic from the DSS now, they're uninformed, but they're obviously informed, what Mr Matic was saying here, that's what we should say, we should ask the minister. You see how he's put the minister in an awkward situation to make sure they haven't even seen each other in Japan. The public could conclude, on the basis of this question, Mr. Matic, that it was a new coalition. Whether "Toyota" or "something else" doesn't matter. All the facts are confused, completely, and he treats us like an MP. We're not MPs, we're MPs here at work. However, there are those who are public -- they just come, they take the diary and they run away; you see, they're nowhere to be found. But now I have no intention of intercede between the parties in power, but I warn you to apply the Rules of Procedure, to warn the MPs in power to know who is the authority here and who is the opposition. Mr. Matic is an MP of the government, he knows all this because he supports the government. We of the opposition do not support the government, we see that the sooner we take it down, we will make some other arguments here, but we do not think of giving credit to Mr Dinkic for not finishing any business with Karic. After all, you know, Karic steals MPs. It's a little something for us, and from what I hear, it looks like he stole something from those MPs from you, too. Think about it. Make a deal. First and foremost, define who is here from you, from the MPs of power, really for power, and who is for opposition, because this is how you bring in a real confusion. After such praises by Mr. Matic in the end, a harsh address to the minister that he did not meet, because Karic's problem was not resolved, then you are confusing us. Don't waste our argument the wrong way. If he had taken good arguments, we would have supported it, but he falsified the argument, to give the public the impression that the DSS is fighting Karic, and then all of this eases. It is the same as when Mladjan Dinkic attacked Karic. Until Mladjan Dinkic began attacking Karic, he was not involved in politics. As he successfully attacks him, here he comes to 12-13%, and G17 to 0.9, so calculate. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: I want a word from the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-15-0.u21919	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. This was business, not injury. Mr. Zankov told me neatly that you signed up to speak in the Rules of Procedure. Please understand, we can continue tomorrow. In line with what I announced, tomorrow morning at 10.00 he will first have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. We're working until 6:00. You can't act like one. )
