ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs of Zivodarka Dacin and Ksenija Milivojevic. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE VETERINARSTV (specificities) I am taking the opportunity to inform you immediately at the beginning of today's session that we will be working today until the end of the search in particular on the 11th and 12th points of the agenda, and we will schedule the vote most likely for tomorrow at 10.00 hours, so that you can plan your commitments. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Micovic, Brance Stojanovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Dragan Petrovic, Dragoslav Milkovic, Zoran Mašić, Vitomir Plužarević, Milorad Krstin, Stojan Cvetkovic and Prvoslav Savic. A report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted has been received. In writing, amendments were withdrawn by MP Zoran Micovic to member 17th and member of 84th and MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to member 46th and Article 64th. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, MP Zoran Micovic withdrew amendments submitted to members 1, 3, 5, 11, 15, 20, 21, 46, 53, 56, 72, 97, 112, 118, 130, 136, 146 and 160, and MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, who submitted the amendment to Article 10. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted the following amendment: "The wastes of animal origin are components of animal body which are not intended or safe for human consumption, confiscat, animal corpses and parts of animal bodies. "The explanation states that the amendment more precisely defines the concept of animal waste. However, the government did not accept this amendment. I think our definition of this point 36 is better than the proposal in the existing law and I think the government should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20345	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20346	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues, the Democratic Party has declared itself. I, as an authorised representative of this law, and I think we really needed this law. The resolution committee, as I said in principle, was considering these amendments, considering the members of the law and giving some amendments that we have already withdrawn in our Committee on Agriculture, because we have subsequently agreed on whether the responsibility of our ministry of this veterinary sector or anyone else is. We can generally be satisfied with these amendments that have been adopted and the law that we are now presented here in this form and that we should adopt. So, with this law, I hope that we will get rid of some unwanted situations that we have in the wind and simply say, I will only appear now and will no longer report on any amendment, to recapitulate that this law is acceptable, that we need it, that any better than any day of delaying the application of the new law or the adoption of this law would bring us great damage to the reputation and profession, state and state of economy in this area. That is why I advocate this law and suggest that the wearer must have responsibility for its implementation, especially during the time provided for its implementation, with the fact that the application of the law must be truly uncompromising. It doesn't matter if my colleague Lunet likes this law or not, or anyone else; he has to apply himself and we have to bring it in. That's why DS is going to vote for this bill and I don't think there's an ideal law, so there's no such thing as this area, and that's why we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20347	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Brance Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20348	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, Mr. Krnjajic, I have also said in principle a few words about this amendment, in a manner that respects the views of the Ministry, but I would simply make a few more notes as to why I think it would be good to adopt this amendment, which is that in Article 16(1) after point 12), a new point of 13) is being introduced, which reads as follows: "The animal health measures laid down by the animal health care programme of animal health measures". The ministry has also predicted such an opportunity in certain situations, and I am trying, by my amendment, to even up and provide the possibility once, according to my data, of a large number of veterinarians working in Serbia. I think this kind of solution kind of violates the law, according to my data, somewhere more than half of the vets that work in the veterinary clinics. That's one reason. The second reason: the tasks carried out in the programme of measures, which is vaccination, blood extraction, fall into general veterinary practice and I think there is no reason to deny the rights of individual colleagues, or veterinarians; simply, these measures fall into some basic veterinary practice. There is then no economic justification for the establishment of a veterinary station in some inhabited areas, i.e. employment of three veterinarians for a small number of cattle. In this case, a veterinarian who has a veterinary clinic and who normally covers the ground, I am talking about small places in Serbia that there are many, in the event that animal health measures and other colleagues are being implemented, in some ways being brought into a position, because the host who has become accustomed to the veterinarian can somehow obtain the wrong picture of him being unable to carry out those measures. The Ministry has provided for such possibility to the next member or one of the following members on the ground, i.e. in situations where there are no veterinary cells, the authority of the veterinarian to carry out such cases. My amendment advocates, and I suggest once again, that such an opportunity be given to veterinary clinics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20349	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted an amendment to Article 26, and we propose that this amendment be adopted and that the words "academic and doctoral studies" be added in Article 26. in Article 26 after the words "studies" are added to "academic and doctoral studies". This is linked to the new Law on Higher Education, so we believe that this should be accepted and Article 26 should be the way the Higher Education Act regulates it, to comply with new legal regulations. However, we as the SRS will continue to ask the Government to accept and fight for a procedural course and adopt, so that we can implement the legislation in a good way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20351	The word has a Minister of Agriculture Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20352	On behalf of the Government, I accept the amendment to Article 26 and Article 28, which was also submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević, since, meanwhile, the Higher Education Act was passed and we think it is good to introduce this definition into the Veterinary Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20353	I find that amendments to Article 26 and to the member of the 28th People's MP, Vitomir Plužarevic, have been accepted and have become an integral part of the bill. The 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20354	In front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment to the draft Veterinary Act on Article 30. With this amendment, I propose that Article 3 be added after Article 2 which reads: "The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine laboratory must be accredited by an organization responsible for accreditation. "This amendment puts all laboratories in the same level, in the Veterinary and Special Institute, the Veterinary Institute and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. This is important because of the fact that the standards stemming from the JUAT programme, i.e. the Yugoslav accreditation body or other accreditation bodies that originate from international accreditation bodies, would be achieved. With ISO 9001, laboratories intended for professional analysis must have a certificate of 17250, which is a standard for their work. The standards themselves determine the methods of working in the laboratories themselves, making their analysis and the results of the analyses themselves valid at international level. The existence of equipment used in the above-mentioned analyses, standards prescribed by the accreditation body, the work on the analyses itself becomes strictly controlled, precisely determines who in the laboratories performs certain analyses, the means of which work is carried out and the methods of work are standardised. If a method is standardised in laboratory studies, it basically means that the result obtained in a laboratory that has acquired this standard has validity throughout the world. The introduction of standards allows all the mentioned scientific institutions, i.e. the Veterinary and Specialist Institute, the Veterinary Institute and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine to be an equal place on the international market for laboratory analysis. The accreditation body has several times over the year checked ISO standards, allowing the level of analysis to be high and internationally recognised. The aim of this amendment is to introduce accreditation bodies into laboratories of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, as is already the case in other scientific institutions, such as veterinary institutes and institutions, and the results of their scientific studies are obtained in order to ensure that the results of the analysis obtained in the laboratories of the Veterinary Faculty of International Size. All of these proposals that we deliver on the very proposal of the Veterinary Act can only make sense if the situation on the ground itself is regulated, that is, when these regulations begin to be implemented in practice, which is so far inconclusive from my corner, as long as there are inhabited places where mandatory vaccinations are not carried out, as long as there are inhabited places like my Taras who do not have a veterinary team in the village, but the services that the Department of Veterinary have assigned to the territory come in, do what they have to and leave the village leaving the locals at the mercy and mercy when they need the help of veterinarians who, according to the idea of the Veterinary Authority, are 20 kilometers away, and some populated places and 40 kilometers away. To be clear, the services are always there when doing work from the programme measures, but the other jobs, which are much more important to me, are not at all interested, because material gains are much less than in the work of the programme of measures that this country is funding. Whether for any intervention, the owner of an animal from my populated place should travel 20 kilometers to the veterinarian or better to call a service that has a solution to the implementation of the programme for that populated place, so that it waits about an hour for the same service to appear, bearing in mind that sometimes minutes are crucial to saving the life of an animal. Should meat samples on the trichinoscopic examinations now become more frequent for their own vehicles to cross the road to the nearest 20km [20 km] and have the local service done the examination, even though the village from its modest means bought a trichinoscopic apparatus? There was also talk about a populated place where, according to their words, the situation is even worse, because they say, there is one service that is 24 hours present, but by decision of the Veterinary Administration, it is forbidden to work according to the programme of measures, while it is assigned to a service that does not perform, and what it does outside the law, which has already been established. It's been established that blood samples were done in lambs and yards under six months, and that's forbidden by law. There is currently no vaccination done in that populated place. The autumn has passed with catastrophic effect, leaving behind dozens of households where animals are not protected. I personally saw the list of people who wrote the petition. Oil on fire also pours out unofficial information that the public service will now receive work on the programme of measures. I'm not talking about their expertise, I'm not talking about how much opportunities and resources they have in terms of means of transport to get to these populated places where the programme of measures will be implemented. Just to be clear, the public service is a service that has such a number of people that they can barely cover the ground. No registered property in the village, no accurate insight into the numerous states. For locals, there are some new people who do not know and who will find it difficult to let into their households. That service, in my opinion, violated Mrs. Minister's orders and sampled the blood of lambs and yards under six months old, which I just said, which is written evidence for. These are two examples from my closer environment that I'm very familiar with, but I'm afraid these are not the only examples of the functioning of the veterinary service. This once again points to problems on the ground, and if successful solutions can open the door to the application of the new law, that is, anything relating to veterinaryism, but if problems are not solved, they can move us away from the path of international integration, because people on the ground are implementing the law and making sure that it lives, and it needs to be a provision for further work on making such a strategically important law for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20355	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20356	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, fellow Members of the Veterinary Administration, I am reporting for the amendment submitted by Mr. Krstin in my desire to support this amendment, because we are from the Serbian Radical Party, which Mr. Krstin said, have just submitted this amendment in a desire and intending to place all veterinary institutions that will conduct laboratory tests, primarily from the aspect of animal health protection, in an equal position. This bill requires all laboratories in future specialist institutions and veterinary science institutes, and according to this law they are veterinary institutes, mandatory accreditation of laboratories. According to Article 30, the university conducts laboratory tests, and paragraph 2 states that the Ministry can arrange certain jobs with certain laboratories of the Veterinary Faculty. Finally, according to existing law, some college laboratories are reference laboratories, so the laboratory of the infection department is referenced, and for the diagnosis of foot and foot, and six or seven years ago we had an episode of this disease in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and there was quite a problem precisely in the diagnostics and confirmation process and infectious disease. There's also a microbiology department, it's also a reference laboratory, so a laboratory for the diagnosis of brucellosis of animals, that's where the disease is confirmed. So if any of these institutes are diagnosed, the material is sent to these laboratories of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine where the final diagnosis should be made. If that is the case, regardless of the establishment of the agency, which we will discuss within the next item of the agenda, where a national laboratory for the diagnosis of infectious diseases is also established, but unfortunately, this bill also does not require these laboratories to be accredited. I think that should mean, because it's not a standard of ISO 17025 introduced for free, but precisely that those laboratories that are conducting laboratory tests should be in one level, in accordance with international standards that primarily involve the introduction of order, meaning, from the reception of materials, the course of laboratory testing, to the issuing of results. Therefore, it may happen in the next period that the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Belgrade, and tomorrow and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Novi Sad, because for now it is only as a study course within the Faculty of Agriculture, but we hope that this or the following year it will also be a college of veterinary medicine and will have its own laboratories... I really don't see why the government and the Ministry didn't accept that these laboratories were necessarily accredited, because it could be useful to the university, because I know for a fact that there are some colleges that already have their accredited laboratories for certain laboratory research tasks. Therefore, in order to improve laboratories that will carry out laboratory tests in veterinary medicine, we have proposed this amendment to the university, at least those laboratories that will be negotiated with the Ministry should be accredited and I do not see that this could be some major problem for the university, because they will benefit from introducing order into these laboratories, and the Ministry will have an officially verified laboratory whose results will be recognised in the European community countries and beyond. I ask again Mrs. Minister and colleagues from the Board to consider and accept the proposal for our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20357	The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 96. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20358	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 96 has regulated the transport of animals, and in the position of the first member, it is proposed that the transport of animals be carried out by vehicles that meet the technical and hygiene conditions and which are recorded in the Ministry. Such a decadent interpretation of the position of the 1st member shall mean that in the future, after the adoption of this law, all means of transport which will be transported by animals must be registered with the Ministry of Agriculture. It is true, in the last position of this member, that the minister is closer to prescribing the technical and hygiene conditions that must meet the vehicles referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article and the way they are recorded, as well as the veterinary-sanitary conditions for the facilities referred to in Article 3. So, by a special sublaw act, most likely by some regulation, it will be more precisely regulated to record, file requests, issue any certificate or certificate of registration of that means of transport with the Ministry and most likely to register means of transport for the transport of animals. However, I felt that by supplementing this article, we would define a little more precisely where the means of transport for transport of animals must be recorded. In particular, transportation from one epizootic area to another should include mandatory recording of the means of transport, and transportation within the epizootic unit... And the epizootic unit, as proposed by this law, is about the area of one municipality or perhaps two to three municipalities at the most. The proposal for this amendment is precisely that within that smaller arena, it means one municipality, or this epizootic unit, those means of transporting animals (in particular, peasants will be brought to the markets of several animals, and that of tractor trailers, even by means of wagons or by some other means of transport of smaller gabarite to say) do not have to be specifically recorded by the Ministry, but must only meet technical and hygiene conditions. So, they must be properly disinfected and such structures must be designed to move and excrets which the animal releases during transport do not spread during that transport and do not pollute any road, so as not to create conditions for the spread of infection or animal diseases in the event that sick animals are transported. As you could hear, the Committee on Agriculture supported this amendment. However, the government and the ministry did not accept the amendment, explaining that the sublaw would define it more precisely. I'm afraid that by adopting this law and in force within eight days, if the police and veterinary inspection are literally applying this newly adopted law, it may be a problem, meaning in the transport of animals, and that someone who transports animals without registering a means of transport can possibly be punished and pay a certain penalty. This amendment would allow animals to be transported by means of means of transport within one municipality, in a smaller spatial arena, without registration by the Ministry. So, if they are transported on a longer path, from one district to another, or one epizootic area, and the epizootic area represents several epizootic units, then in these cases the means of transport are necessarily recorded at the Ministry of Agriculture. I have to say and admit to the truth that the largest number of infections is spreading just under the control of animal transport and transport by inadequate means of transport. On the other hand, I support the proposal to record the means of transport at some length of transport distance, as I would say. We know from experience that our farmers use convenient means of transport to cattle markets. Often they do not even meet technical and hygiene conditions. We have to admit that. Simply, to cost that transport cheaper, they use their own resources. I felt that such means of transport should not be specially recorded. The amendment has not been accepted, so it remains for colleagues, as well as for our farmers and others who are engaged in livestock production, to analyse whether or not such an amendment has been directed to accept or remain decidently in the position of staying as it is formulated, and that the sublegal act will make it closer to regulation. I believe that the adoption of this amendment would certainly mean that this regulation or sublegal act would be a more precise manner and procedure of recording, in particular what are technical and hygiene conditions that must meet the means of transport for transporting animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20359	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic and then by MP Brance Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the solution proposed in the law remains and this amendment is not adopted, the Ministry could very easily get a record of the means of transport, by taking over all registered tractors, registered trucks, registered vehicles, because those means are transported by animals. I understand it's a slaughterhouse industry, where a large amount of animals are transported from the collection station to the slaughterhouse, etc., so that the Ministry must have that record. However, this is how we bring peasants into a very ungrateful and unenviable situation. I would also like to read the proposal, at least this part of the bill, and the amendment and reasoning of the government, so that the citizens of Serbia, above all, can be clear – animal transport is carried out by vehicles that meet technical and hygiene conditions. That's normal. All vehicles, if it's a cage, so it's down there, so it meets the conditions for the transport of small cattle, if it's a trailer with big pages, and it meets the conditions for the transport of large cattle... That's what our people know. The point is that our peasant will now have to register with the Ministry every trailer; if his trailer breaks down, so he takes it from the neighbor, he'll have to see if the neighbor's trailer is registered to drive from the place to the fair a couple of cattle locks. Therefore, the amendment requires nothing more than that it does not have to be registered with the Ministry. So, to meet all these hygienic and technical conditions, but not to have to be registered with the Ministry. Finally, in the last position, the minister is closer to prescribing the technical and hygiene conditions that must meet the vehicles described in Article 1(1). And that's okay. Not only in Section 1, but also in Article 2, which would read, according to the amendment: "The transport of animals within an epizootic unit is carried out by vehicles that meet technical and hygiene conditions", which is normal. Therefore, why is the ministry burdened with yet another record that is absolutely unnecessary? On the other hand, it is quite different to ask the Ministry about this and Mr. Krstin's amendment. I suggest that Dr. Zoran Mašić's amendment be adopted and in voting day, I think you'll all vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20361	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20362	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand why the proposal is like this. The desire was to prevent the possibility of transmission of infectious diseases through the transport of animals and that is clear. However, we need to look into the truth: what is the situation in this kind of Serbia, if this amendment is not accepted, it will be impossible for people with as many livestock as they have in Serbia, in small towns, to export their cattle to the market by small villages. So this is how the law provides, it's practically impossible. Let me just say, and Mr. Mika Vlaovic, here at the time for this pay phone, he said, asked the government, or the MUP, that at the time of the major actions in agriculture, when the crops, etc., the traffic police would not be so rigorous in terms of traffic control, because unfortunately, tractors and agricultural machinery, agricultural machinery, are not registered, nor what is necessary under the law. In this way, I think we're paralysing the possibility that there's even traffic in cattle, and I think that in Mr. Mašić's expertise and his proposal to be at least one municipality... Although there will be problems, because there are many situations in Serbia that the main market is in the area of one municipality, and several municipalities are gravitating towards this market, fair or where cattle are already being sold and where farmers are bringing their cattle. Therefore, given that the Committee on Agriculture has adopted this amendment, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this amendment. I appeal once again, unless the government already wishes to accept, that MPs support this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20363	Anyone else want a word? Agriculture Minister Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20364	This amendment has been seriously considered in both the Ministry and the Government, but it is that we cannot legally allow the traffic of cattle in an epizootic area without any control, because that is precisely the problem that leads to the spread of diseases. Certainly not every trailer will have to be registered to the Ministry of Agriculture, nor will every trailer for two pigs be registered in the ministry. All of this will be detailed in the rulebook and, as I said, we will deliver this rule to the Agriculture Committee and ask you to help us define all these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20365	Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are once again in the situation we have been in several times in the last twenty days since the legal projects are in the process – we will pass the law, and then we will discuss the rule. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we adopt this law as it stands and if we don't adopt the amendment, it's cemented. The peasant will also have to have that cage where he drives two pigs onto the tractor when he lifts up to register at the Ministry. Therefore, if this were to be done, that rule would have already been given to the MPs by this law. Then we'd know that under that rule, a member of the law could be passed. Therefore, I suggest that the amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20367	Here you go. National MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment should be accepted by the Government, for what reason. The transport of animals within epizootic units shall be carried out by vehicles which meet technical and hygiene conditions. The vehicle must be technically correct, which means, and hygienically correct. What does "hygienic" mean? That he has confirmation of disinfection from the competent veterinary service. There's no need to report to the Ministry, there's no point. Even the one with the wagon vehicle, whether it's horses, cows that pull the wagon, drive five-six pigs, he can disinfect the vehicle at the veterinary station or the infirmary on the previous day and there's no need to report it to the Ministry. Second, there's going to be a market blockade. The largest market in southern Serbia is Ristovac, there is a daily thousand vehicles, there can be no control, except that this amendment is accepted and that the vehicle is technically correct and that it meets these minimum hygiene conditions, which means that the transport of animals is carried out by a vehicle that has been disinfected. I think the government should accept, there's no need for you to bring in some ex-post regulations, because that would be really hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20369	National MP Zoran Mašić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on article 101. Rules of Procedure. I think my explanation was misread, since the Minister said here that the means of transport in the epizootic area should be registered. So the means of transport that transport animals from one epizootic area to another should be registered. That's undeniable, and that's what I'm proposing with the amendment. It means that transport from one epizootic area to another should be carried out by means of the means of transport that are registered. The epizootic area is a larger number of epizootic units. About one epizootic area may, for our administrative division, represent one district. In particular, the transport of animals from one district to another should entail the mandatory recording of means of transport, and the very essence of the proposal is that within an epizootic unit, a smaller area (the epizootic unit represents an area of one or several municipalities), it should be made possible by means of means of transport which do not have to be registered with the Ministry. This is the essence of the proposal, and it is also indisputable by the amendment to remain this final position in this article, that the Ministry regulates the conditions and means of registration and registration of means of transport by means of a certain regulation. I urge you to reconsider and put our reality first, whether it is possible within one municipality to require the transport of animals exclusively by means of means of transport to be registered with the Ministry. I don't think that's possible. The Minister herself said she wouldn't insist on it. If not, then give the law such an opportunity that one who reads the law knows that if transporting animals within a municipality does not have to be a means of transport recorded. The substance of the recording shall not dispute the obligation of technical conditions, to be inescapable, impenetrable and to be disinfected, to meet minimum hygiene conditions. This does not slow down, which is precisely from the aspect of the spread of the infection, and it is irrelevant from the aspect of the spread of the infection whether a means of transport is recorded within one municipality or not. Because the veterinary inspector at the cattle market is doing an animal examination and checking that the person selling has adequate veterinary confidence that he can take out the animal for sale and the veterinary inspector can check that the means of transport is disinfected, which is important from the aspect of the prevention of infectious diseases. The amendment makes sense that the law regulates that in a given area citizens do not have to register if they are transporting within the municipality a means of transporting animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20371	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20372	Ladies and gentlemen, I think Dr. Masic's amendment should be accepted. The Ministry, or Government, does not need its regulations to fill in the legal non-regulatory, so we believe that this amendment should be accepted. I was thinking that perhaps with the Ministry’s position, or minister, it would prepare a location for some special activities of some special people to carry those cattle at local or interlocal level. We are not as a state, nor as a local self-government, nor as a nation ready at this time, or we do not have the opportunity to go out on the ground and market with such means of transport as is foreseen under the law, so we will probably allow some people to do certain jobs (I mean people who deal with illegal jobs), to take as much profit from such a tormented peasant who comes to the market with a hard time to sell, or to cash out that part of his goods that he's going to market with. If we take a look at the Romanian fair, which is the largest in the Balkans, or Europe, we are likely to reduce this legislation, i.e. to want to stifle the Romanian fair, and we know that the Romanian fair has some positive comments on the trade in agricultural products. That's where you think about cattle and everything that's exposed and sold. We again appeal to the Minister and to the Government to accept this amendment, so that they do not regulate and resolve their regulations, and you know the regulations. Once again, I urge you to accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20373	The word is given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really cannot understand that in addition to all the apparitions of certain political parties, the Serbian Radical Party... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? ) Article 101. I am discussing the amendment tabled by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, former director of the Veterinary Institute of Novi Sad, a top institute. It is evident that you have made a mistake here that you will not accept what Serbian Radical Party MPs have indicated, headed by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr Masic. You made one big mistake here. That mistake should be corrected, gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture. I think you should respect the objections that are in place, and they should contribute to making this law legally subsidized. Therefore, I am sure that if this amendment is not particularly accepted, the SRS will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20375	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic to Article 98. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 110th amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic to article 115. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20376	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the Committee on Agriculture has accepted this amendment, I think the government should accept it. In Article 115 after the word "remembrance" should be added the words "clonal embryos". Uncontrolled imports of cloned embryos should be clearly banned, as this may have negative consequences for the country's livestock production. We had a case with that modified strain, and therefore, this imports should be banned. Today Serbia imports apples, beans, meat. Serbia was an exporter of meat during Milos Obrenovic, and now we import everything and everything. The arrival of the Serbian Radical Party in power will create conditions for Serbia to become a rich country, which will be through the development of agriculture and will become an exporter of food. We can't export machines, cars, televisions to the west; we have to export agricultural products, because we're a rich country, we have huge potential to feed 100 million. However, the situation is such, and the arrival of the Serbian Radical Party in power will change the situation better, I guarantee it to everyone. There will be no crime, no corruption, no robbery. The state will function normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20377	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's a veterinary law I'm not going to talk about genetically modified organisms today, I'm not going to talk about how genetically modified soybeans are sown today, so it should have been overrun. The villagers were deceived, someone imported this genetically modified seed. I'm not going to talk about the Minister having information, relatively often going to the Monsanto company in the U.S., and that's a company that's now dealing with genetically modified organisms, primarily soybean and other cereals. I'm going to talk about something that threatens as an incredible danger of overcoming Serbia. Article 115 states: "Transport, import or export of semen for artificial insemination, ova and fertilised ova containing the cause of animal diseases or a higher number of bacteria than permitted or which do not meet their biochemical, biophysical and morphological properties. "The National MP Dragoslav Milkovic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, otherwise a respected veterinarian in his area and a man who understands this matter, has asked for an amendment to add the words "clonal embryos" in article 115 after the words "sensation". With this amendment, we have banned imports of cloned embryos and production, i.e. rearing cloned animals in Serbia. The only thing still relatively clean in this country is this animal world. So if we let the West contaminate us this way, the question is how much we can and how we can further develop. Because one of the top experts in genetically modified organisms has clearly and unequivocally published in the paper – if you eat genetically modified organisms through a diet will not affect you, but it will affect your offspring, who will then have a severe impact. This goes beyond that in this country, as it goes over a lot of things, and through organized and disorganised crime in all segments, and this state that holds on to itself should not be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20379	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 115 regulates the transport of reproductive material and precisely the purpose of the amendment was to prohibit imports of cloned embryos by this law after 14 years. It is true that today there are very few cloned animals in the world that are grown, especially in economic exploitation. A large number of researchers and institutions are working precisely on the problem of cloning, so animal organisms or individual organs, where animals should in fact be potential donors to transplant individual internal organs, primarily liver, kidneys, etc. But today, there are a number of high throats, mostly cattle... The first animal that is cloned is sheep, but it has today cloned cattle, these are musar cows that have achieved high production, but the problem is the use of these animals' products, especially milk. There was almost one article in a magazine, where just one agricultural producer in America had several cows produced by this method of cloning and where milk and other products are a problem, because there is fear in these citizens. Today it is still a great unknown, so what is the life span of these animals, what they all wear and especially their products. That is why we felt that this law should prohibit the possibility of anyone to import it here, although it is true that every import and seed of animals and ova goes with the previous permission and consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. So, it's undeniable, but for the import of seeds, embryos, animal eggs, the legal possibility of importing and, normally, the Ministry only prescribes what everything must be fulfilled by the exporter, means, it must be certified that it is seeds or embryos of healthy animals and that they cannot enter the country, especially if they are infected or contaminated by a larger number of bacteria or are morphologically or physiologically altered. It's okay and it's undeniable. However, on the condition that the Ministry of Agriculture gives consent to importing, say, that someone submits an application to import cloned embryos, if it is decidently not regulated to prohibit it, then it is allowed. At least you'll agree to that. Our intention was to stand to ban ourselves for now, until greater and more comprehensive knowledge of animal cloning is obtained. It is also true that a small number of institutions in our country are dealing with embryotransfers, so only one who mastered the embryotransfer methodology, but several dissertations have been done. So, we have a few, at least five colleagues who have PhD in embryotransfers that refer to pigs and cattle. The Institute for Reproductive and Artificial Insemination in Novi Sad had, that I do not agree with you, but surely 50, if not more, cows and heifers with which an embryotransfer of egg cells was performed, and also a colleague who worked at that institute was doctored at the embryotransfer in pigs. So we have competent experts who could create an embryotransfer of a cloned embryo of a potential donor. The purpose of the amendment is to prohibit anyone from importing a cloned embryo in this situation when it's still unknown. So maybe someone will want to make some media boom. Although, by the logic of things, the Ministry should also forbid such a thing to enter the country. The law does not decidently prohibit it, then stands the theoretical and practical possibility of allowing importing it. Since this article is concerned with the transport of reproductive material, under which conditions it is prohibited, our aim was to prohibit the import of cloned embryos by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20381	The word has an MP, Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20382	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been facing a law that has been prepared for a very long time and, according to all professional estimates, good law, which we expect to have a long application in Serbia. I really don't see why, respecting all this we've heard, that clone embryos, that it's some future, means, if we expect the law to be applied for a long time, and there's no reason why it shouldn't be, because there's also an expert public showing up around it, there's a spear, in a positive sense, there's a good text. I think this is a good amendment and that it should, respecting the fact that the law will be long in application, that we fence ourselves simply and ban imports of cloned embryos, regardless of what is not current now, because there is no trade, it is still at the level of scientific research, etc. In order for us to be provided and for this law to be better quality, the SPS parliamentary group will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20383	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 124. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20384	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Madam Ministers, colleagues from the Veterinary Authority, in Article 124, which discusses the issue of import licences and the transport of animals, states in the fifth point of view: "The import authorisation may provide for a subsequent follow-up of laboratory and diagnostic testing of animals, products of animal origin, food of animal origin, food for animals and accompanying objects. "The following point states: "If veterinary-sanitary controls are established that previous consignments from the exporting country, i.e. from a specific establishment of origin, were safe for use and followed by correct international veterinary certificates, import and transport licences shall be issued without laboratory control of consignments of products of animal origin, food of animal origin or feed for animals. "This amendment I wanted to decidently define in the preceding article that there is a mandatory control obligation, that this "can" be changed and that it is mandatory to determine that a laboratory and diagnostic examination of live animals is subsequently carried out, etc. The purpose of this amendment is that if we respect what is in the next amendment, it means that we do not control someone, so that after these controls we find that from certain objects where products of animal origin, food of animal origin or food are produced, or simply from a country, from a given area, and from where we import live animals, we find that these animals meet animal health conditions and are free from infectious diseases that are forbidden to enter our country. In order to determine this, it is logical that there should be an obligation to study, and at some point then apply this next provision of the law that some of these should be excluded when they are given a solution. What I stand for just confirms is the fact that during this year, a considerable number of cattle have been imported into our country, mostly from the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a major producer of milk, cattle, beef, beef products. It's appreciated in the world as a cattle producer. The cattle that entered our country from that country are quite infected with diseases, and they were fertilized cattle; they are infected with diseases that animals, according to our regulations, should not be infected. It was discovered precisely because mandatory diagnostic testing was imposed. Let's start from the assumption that someone interpreting this particular statement - can be examined, and said - we will not examine this contingent; we would introduce, in an acute infection, viral diarrhoea found in these cattle, an infectious bovirinotritracheit, an equally viral disease that should not be in fertilized animals; even leucous throats have been found in these imported animals. It's a special problem for which all import permits are granted. Unfortunately, I must say here for this speaker that one of the importers is these cattle and Mr. Sasa Vitosevic, former federal agriculture minister and adviser to Mr. Labus for the area of agriculture. He, who completed plant protection, now deals with the traffic of cattle and the import of cattle. And, I want to ask in this debate and the parliamentary question and get information – how many Mr. Vitosevic's companies imported cattle and whether all the throats imported were healthy and according to our legal regulations met those requirements and regulations, i.e. If they hadn't been infected with diseases that shouldn't have progeny throats. We had some problems earlier in importing products of animal origin and food of animal origin, as we previously called it in the previous law - food of animal origin. If imported again by certain slaughterhouses, meat that has been infected with certain bacteria that are harmful to human health or are imported food for animals where certain harmful substances have been found or bacteria or other chemical products that should not be contained in food. That is why this amendment aims to oblige every importer, at least while we are in transition, while importing and giving us the opportunity to import whoever wants and what they want, because we have a free market. It should exist as such, but if we had honest traders, then it would be okay; we have unfair traders, and we have those who sell us and they know that we can take everything and push everything, and that's worth it and it's not worth it. Therefore, I felt that it should not stand, but that there must be a diagnostic examination of all imported animals that are staying in quarantine, and products, and then, in some later period, use this alternative, which is primarily in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation, when trust is acquired in both suppliers and our importers. Until then, every importer should be obliged to examine each consignment of live animals, products of animal origin, food of animal origin and food for animals in these laboratories that we will establish in this agency. What are those labs gonna do if they don't control exactly what gets across the border into our country? Of which they should be supported and, of course, what they will do under the programme of measures. Therefore, we establish something that is necessary and necessary, and on the other hand, we do not commit that everything that enters across the border must be controlled for now, and possibly later, in other conditions and circumstances, then select some products or food for the animals to be placed on the market and without detailed analyses as they normally do. What I'm saying is, we have trained laboratories, we have personnel that can do all the modern laboratory tests, and above all diagnostic tests in animals, from PCR techniques, through serological methods, through tissue culture methods, as regards animal viral diseases; we have modern analytical laboratories that can determine all harmful substances, chemical toxins, and also determine various bacterial contaminants. So if we've got all this stuff, then we've got to tell those merchants, and I've got to tell the thieves who set us up, show that they can't sell us everything. In this way, the Netherlands is eradicating certain infectious diseases in its cattle and what their criteria do not satisfy, they export it to Serbia and most likely still in some countries similar to Serbia. We're importing some diseases that we haven't had or we've already done on some farms, and that's one herpes viral infection, and the leukosis, especially, and the bovina diarrhoea is, it's just established titres, but now a certain number of animals have failed and there's even been deaths, which is being associated with Bovine Viral Diarrhea. I ask you to really take serious care of this amendment and of the obligation to control everything that enters our country, because otherwise, it will really turn out that we are banana-state and that we can do what anyone wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20385	Mr. Masic, do you want what you asked to be like a parliamentary question and who is it addressed to?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20386	It was directed to the Ministry of Agriculture, issuing import licences, to report how many Mr. Vitosevic's companies have imported so far, as he boasted in one place that he plans to import 16,000 cow's throats. Whether it's true or not, just to convince myself and the public I want to get accurate information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20387	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Zankov, you have well reminded the MPs and these so-called Members of the People. positions on parliamentary issues, as there is practically no such thing as a five-octobaric coup in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the possibility that MPs may be interested in certain areas. We could talk about this topic or healthy diets or what is devastating to the health of people in our country and what is a threatening danger, certainly, as well as to many others of vital importance to the people and the state. First, this amendment, which Professor Zoran Mašić made remarks on, or amendment to Article 124, was misspelled. It is not in line with the readable and clear Serbian language, it is written in infinitative and it is unacceptable first because it is reluctantly spoken in the Serbian people, and on the other hand, it is hornobatic and because it is culturally defined. Something that can, or as it is written here - can be determined, does not mean anything, especially because Professor Mašić has only some of the examples, if you look at the daily and weekly press and special emissions on our electronic media, talked about various abuses in imports of animal goods contingents. There are numerous examples, along with this Vitosevic, of various other lobbyists for this Lijanovic, who flooded megamarkets in Serbia, for various other producers who are at least suspicious of origin, especially when it comes to products of animal origin from so-called "the." feathered animals and especially because of the fact that mostly waste and what it is, as people in the area say, animal confection in the processing of meat, the rest and the rest of them are the most dangerous in that machine-processing meat, and it is either frozen or processed in some salamis, in various pastures and wonders in our supermarkets and markets. If you want to face reality and see how underrated and systematically destroyed our meat processing industry, not all of it, but let's just say, it's obvious that in the case of a complete robbery and kidnapping of property at the Red Star factory in Kragujevac, once the most famous meat processing factories, and when you see on the other hand what this import lobby is all about on the domestic market and what a danger it is and what a legitimate fear of the people is and because of the disease of mad cows, and because of the bird flu and for everything that Professor Mašić has said, then it is justified to ask for one such amendment. Because if someone is already providing foreign exchange funds, if it provides a valid external trade, or an import contract (unfortunately, we are mainly dealing with a system of unfair competition and import lobbyists), if it is ready to offer a certain contingent to the domestic market, why is it running away from the border crossing, that is to say, during the approval of the contingent carrying out the necessary laboratory report and to make it mandatory as proposed by Dr Mašić in his amendment. Although it has become popular in Serbia, as some would say - "in", to talk about healthy food and healthy life, the basic conditions for this country have not been achieved, because (here you have seen and when we have calculated what a consumer basket contains) it is difficult for some pensioner or some unemployed Serbian citizen to obtain meat processing. According to that bill and calculations, the household, Mrs. Radete from that consumer basket of 23 dishes, but only such a cup, which would say, without oil, cooked vegetables, is a little salty, and that's the question. When you are already talking about the possibility that someone might be dealing with the import of these products, which is unreachable for many citizens, then make a good commitment by accepting Professor Masic's amendment that he must be subject to control, because the great danger lies with those products that are and how they are represented on our market. Take a look at this defeating data, when it comes to our country's external trade deficit, in meeting this day "D" for you who are in a great hurry to Europe and waiting for you to study feasibility, so some are tripping here among the congregation benches, what is the relationship when it comes to importing products of animal origin in relation to traffic in our country of domestic products. Think about it one more time, and first of all, I call on the MPs of the people, these are just some of the reasons, because besides all that, it's for some... And today I happened to witness it on my way to the congregation. Professor Poscurica and I are on, I don't want to advertise that radio station, because otherwise I don't have a good opinion about that media house; a lady who is a health promoter and a healthy lifestyle appeared. If this has become a lucrative profession for some, and if they are ready every day for citizens, who are poor, hungry and poor, to wash their brains out about what quality food they should eat, just to prevent, God forbid, some kind of poisoning or to suffer children from kindergartens and schools or even families in Serbia, introduce this as a mandatory way and accept the amendment of your fellow professor, Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20389	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20390	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 126, which regulates the ban on imports. In Article 126, the words "and cloned embryos" are deleted after the words "animals" are deleted and the words "and cloned embryos" are added. The words "and cloned embryos" are added in attitude 2 after the word "animals". We must not allow everything and everything to be imported into Serbia, for Serbia to be a European dump. Serbia must be a healthy, ecological state, to produce healthy food, because it is highly polluted. NATO Alliance in 1999 contaminated our country. The forest is drying in southern Serbia. Ask God what's been thrown away, and we still miss importing everything and everything. We must not allow Serbia to be environmentally polluted, to become a European dump. Serbia must become a natural oasis for the production of healthy food, to attract a large number of tourists. We have all the preconditions, we have baths, mountains, cultural and historical monuments, that our citizens do not go to other countries to leave foreign currency, as they are now going to Turkey, Bulgaria, Greece, but to rest here, at home. Since the Committee on Agriculture has accepted it, I think the government should accept it as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20391	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20392	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you look at this law, wherever there is an opportunity to ban imports of cloned embryos, it's always avoided. It's just amazing, and I wonder why. Isn't there some interest that the next day, as soon as we adopt this law, and through some criminal association... If we don't install, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this in the law - banning all of this, we're going to be in a situation where every other sheep in Serbia is called Dolly. Article 126 states: "The import of live microorganisms of pathogens for animals is prohibited. Exceptional from the provision of Article 1 of this Article, the Ministry may issue a permit... ". It's about microorganisms that would make vaccines to protect animals, as far as I could understand. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only in this article, in the members of the front, we have an amendment in the next article, too, must be stressed - the import of cloned embryos must be prohibited. I propose that in the day for the vote, MPs still hold the ruling coalition to push the green button and protect Serbia's state from all that is coming to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20393	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic. Let MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20394	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I was expecting a professional hearing today. That atmosphere was, in fact, monitoring the passing of this law. As I said in the debate in principle, it took a year, really professional debates were conducted. I didn't mean to report to the amendments, but I'm afraid the discussion slipped in a different, marketing direction. For the sake of the public, I'd like to say something about this amendment. Article 126 of the Law reads: "The import of live microorganisms of pathogens for animals is prohibited." Gentlemen, it's microorganisms. One more thing to tell you, animal cloning is a dead end. Dolly's sheep died. This is about, ladies and gentlemen, microorganisms. The insertion of the word " cloned embryos" in microorganisms doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20395	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20396	Ladies and gentlemen, what would we do if it weren't for the experiment? We wouldn't know a lot of things. Fortunately, we have them here, so they're interpreting some controversial things. Article 126 is in line with the amendment submitted by Mr Milkovic to Article 115, also related to Article 3. First of all, it's about healthy food we need to use. Unfortunately, we heard from several Serbian Radical Party MPs like all imports, what happens in our food industry when it comes to meat and meat processing. It should be pointed out that we have these proposals from Articles 115 and 126, and we really need to make an account, because what is now regulated by law is definitely staying. There will be great abuse in the future. We do all this to protect our generations and ourselves from bad food, bad meat products. In view of the fact that a number of unconscious individual producers are conducting various experiments for the rapid production of as much meat as possible, while not taking into account the quality of that same meat that we bring into the organism, it should indeed be rigorous and strict about punishing such individuals who can cause incomprehensible harm to our society. It should be pointed out that we have a number of products, primarily vegetables, which are very harmful to the human organism, which means that the agency itself that you form, although it is too high, since we have a large number of laboratories, institutes, institutions, etc., should really be strictly accounted for, if we want to preserve our own health and the health of future generations. Therefore, Article 115, as well as Article 126, should absolutely be supported because it has an extremely important importance. If the law regulates, the government should not regulate this member of the law by subsequent regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20397	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to the title above Article 138. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Micovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 138a be added after article 138a. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 147th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Prvoslav Savic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Prvoslav Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 158. Proposal for a Veterinary Act, which I ask to be in point 13) after the word "item 1." add the words "and attitude 2", which would make point 13 more complete and therefore more precise. I would remind you that point 13 of this article is closely related to Article 96, to which the amendment was submitted by SRS MP Zoran Masic, who is the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture. This amendment requires that the following point 2 is added: "The transport of animals within an epizootic unit is carried out by vehicles that meet technical and hygiene conditions". The government, as usual, did not accept this amendment, so it did not accept the amendment I submitted. If we were to analyse why everything, or almost all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, the Government would not want to accept it, then we would come to the only possible conclusion, and he is the following: By accepting these amendments, the Government, or its ministers, would accept that the proposed draft law is full of shortcomings; even worse, they would acknowledge their incompetence, both for this and for many other draft laws. How nice it would be if the government had proposed good laws, so that we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party – by the way, the only real opposition parties in this parliament – do not have to correct their amendments, but to be happy that our citizens are experiencing a boom in their application. Something like that, with the amendment not being accepted, is obviously not possible, because your assembly majority will vote against accepting these amendments, and you should vote yes, because that is the only way you will succeed in making it possible for the citizens of Serbia to make something better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20399	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20400	Ladies and gentlemen, here we come to what is required in article 96 to require that all vehicles, in addition to meeting the hygiene and technical requirements, be recorded in the Ministry. The peasant chases seven locks, pigs up to 100 kilos on the market, in a trailer that wasn't registered at the Ministry and meets the inspector and charges him a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars; all seven immediately unloaded, handed over to this inspector and returned home. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not at all naive to what is said in Article 96. That trailer can meet the hygiene and technical conditions, it can be all right, but it's not registered at the Ministry. He bought the day before yesterday, couldn't register at the Ministry, registered at the SUP, got a green plate, hung up on the trailer, met him by a veterinary inspector and took him from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars. I understand for those who will smuggle, such as this Vitosevic – half will import legally, half illegally. Otherwise, they've been doing it a long time and it's their practice. Half of them will be healthy, half of them will be sick. Given the behaviour of individual ministries in the government, individual services and institutions in this country, it seems to me that Sasa Vitosevic imported a bunch of cows from England a long time ago, I mean with that disease. I think there's some kind of madness going on. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is why we cannot accept this law. This is why Serbian Radical Party MPs will vote against this law, because the skin of those who live the most today, to those who owe 20 pensions, to those who feed this country. And this is how you want to rob them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20401	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Proposal for a Veterinary Law on Article 158. The amendment reads that the words "and cloned embryos" should be added in point 29) after the word "animals". In order to make it clearer, I'll start from complete point 29. Article 158 provides for a fine of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars for a violation of a company or another legal entity if it imports live micro-organisms of pathogens for animals, unless an exceptional ministry issues an import licence exclusively for scientific research purposes. The Ministry may specifically approve imports of pathogens for scientific research work, for working on immunophilic agents, vaccine and serum production bases and diagnostics themselves. The funds of their member, i.e. pathogens, are used in strictly controlled conditions that must meet the needs of the level of biosecurity, i.e. that handling them is strictly safe. Uncontrollable imports and the use of pathogens can seriously endanger human health, endanger animal health, lead to the occurrence of infectious diseases with the possibility of outbreaks, as many diseases that animals are subject to are also zoonoses, thus jeopardizing both the health and life of the human population. All of this inevitably leads to a decrease in production capacity, and there is also the risk of economic damage that pathogens can cause by unconscious and uncontrolled use. The absence of control of imports of pathogens can endanger the country's international status on the absence of a disease, which is effectively jeopardising the country's economy for a longer or shorter period. Imports of such material must be carried out through authorised companies for such a type of activity, which in practice requires special transport conditions, the way they are stored, which are closely linked to the Ministry which also prescribes these strict import norms. I, by amendment to Article 158 of point 29, asked for the words "animals" to be added to the words "and cloned embryos", because cloned embryos cause a number of conundrums and unknowns in the direction these organisms behave in the environment, whether there is a real danger that they as such cause diseases, because there is no information whether they are through DNA carriers of the disease and whether at the level of the genome they are safe for human and animal health. The ban would, in practice, mean safety in the sense that through cloned embryos, we import potential carriers of infectious diseases, because the procedure for obtaining them is very risky. It is sufficient that in the production of cloned embryos, several atoms of carbon are separated from the structure of DNA and that it significantly disrupts the production of protein, which significantly determines the direction of growth and development of the clone itself. Clones, in their previous experience, have much more intense growth and development, and as such could contribute seriously to the complications of a cloned embryo itself. A cloned embryo implanted into its carrier would have elements of malignant tumors, which would simply have grown beyond the frames of the natural embryo and would have created a complicated situation - if the newborn had been created by cloning at the time of arrival to the world for several months, and that the parameters of its size and weight were fatal to the individual wearing this cloned embryo. It's not known how an individual could bring a mutant like this into the world without jeopardizing his own life. The invisible mutations that they can carry with them pose a potential danger, because no one can safely argue whether cloned embryos are currently safe or genetic mutation can be determined after several generations, and the risk of this guy, you'll admit, is not needed at all because we care about generations behind us. All of these exposed elements contribute to strict control of and work with cloned embryos alongside pathogens, which also pose a major threat to human and animal populations. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, are already in a few members of the Veterinary Law bill trying to include the words "clenad embryos" in the law itself, in a few members, in order to avoid what must be avoided by importing modified soybeans. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group, if you do not accept these amendments that are well-intentioned, which only want to complete this law, will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20403	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to go out on the line to Mr. Kronic, when he came out after the amendment was discussed to Article 126, and when he said, roughly, that we didn't understand. Mr. Kronic didn't understand that we understand that he doesn't understand. The point is that, using Article 126, we wanted to insert, in addition to micro-organisms, a ban on imports of cloned embryos. It was the MP, Mr. Krstin, who requested that Article 158 be introduced at point 29, in addition to prohibiting the import of live pathogens for animals and the ban on imports of cloned embryos. In each article where possible, a ban on importing cloned embryos. The fact that Dolly's sheep died, I'm taking the opportunity to express my deepest condolences to both the minister and the entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20405	The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20406	I would like to read for the public the point of the 29th article, which reads - importing live microorganisms of pathogens for animals. So it's microorganisms again, and believe me, Mr. Markovic, that I know what clones are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20407	Replica, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20408	We say that in point 29, Article 158 remains this - imports of live microorganisms of pathogens for animals (Article 126) and to add - and cloned embryos. Mr. Kronic did not read the first position of this member where it is said that fines will punish him who imports of micro-organisms and cloned embryos. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20409	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to Article 158. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 160 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 160th amendment. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Masic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 164a be added after article 164a. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group have already expressed personal views, and somewhat the position of our parliamentary group on the conditionality of accepting certain amendments in order to support this law. In the principle debate, we have declared that he is acceptable and that the profession has been consulted through the debate that was conducted during the preparation of this law. Finally, the Agriculture Committee itself had one debate about the draft of the law, but normally, when making each law, certain failures are made which are not seen at the moment when defined and later when it passes through a number of hands and sees a larger number of eyes, then determine the possibilities of supplementing certain members or supplementing the law itself. Although we're like a parliamentary group, i.e. The members of the SRS Committee have accepted this law in principle, and finally our statement will be conditioned by accepting key amendments, and one of the key amendments to this law, and especially because it is an explicit requirement of the profession, it is defined in this law that the privatisation process of public veterinary services, which should inevitably follow the adoption of this law, should be defined here in a way, so that privatisation will be carried out under the Government's programme. However, the government did not accept this, and there was a revote on the Committee, and even the Committee itself did not support this amendment. Meanwhile, consultations with the Minister for Industry and Privatisation, as well as with fellow directors of the Veterinary Administration, were given certain ideas that the Committee should re-shape this member and define this in a somewhat different form. As the applicant of this amendment, I could not accept it, because the fact that the Committee would possibly define is not a guarantee that it would be accepted, above all by the ruling coalition, because simply the Government would not be able to plead on this new proposal from the Committee. In my opinion, the opportunity was for the government, as far as I know, to hold a session Thursday, the Committee had a session last Tuesday, and if there was any desire and will to meet, above all, the requirement of the profession to define the privatisation process in this law, the government could make one such decision and submit an amendment which is then meant to be accepted by the ruling majority, and would be supported safely by Serbian Radical Party MPs. In such a situation, I would withdraw my amendment as an amendment bearer, and I couldn't withdraw it anyway. I continue to believe that such a formulated amendment – especially since the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly has declared that it is legally possible and there is no legal obstacle for it to exist as such in this bill – to be a significant relief and security for colleagues working in public veterinary services, particularly veterinary stations and in specialised veterinary institutes or institutions, as will be called after the adoption of this law. I must say, first of all, a personal regret, although it was a clear requirement of the profession, and I have read in principle a letter from the president of the Serbian Veterinary Society which called for the last consultation of the veterinarian, where about 700 colleagues were discussed and where it was debated exactly about the privatisation of the veterinary public service under the law which will be adopted and where the position of the Serbian Veterinary Society and all colleagues was clearly stated that it would be good that the privatisation of the public veterinary service would go according to the government's programme, means that the government has an obligation to form a programme to prevent, first of all, the service from privatising or buying some who are not in the field of veterinary activity and profession. In particular, such definition is considered logical by the government because there is a constitutional obligation for the government and this state to provide animal health protection throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. True, privatisation is absolutely impossible without a government decision. So, to privatise the public service, the government must make a decision, and based on that decision, it will enter into the process, but the purpose of supplementing this member is that, by defaulting the government's decision to privatise public service, the government has first and foremost the obligation to develop a programme to privatise. So the proposal is precisely in these previous agreements in terms of changes and my withdrawal of this member, or it was suggested that it would go according to the government's decision. Certainly, lawyers from our parliamentary group have given an interpretation that public service privatisation cannot be entered absolutely unless the government has previously decided to go to privatisation. One is that kind of decision, and the other is that the government is developing a programme to define what process privatisation will take, whether by auctioning or by tender. The profession advocates that it be a tender sale. Furthermore, that the renaming of activity cannot be done for a minimum of five, and there has been a proposal for ten years, and that they cannot buy those who do not work or did not work in the veterinary area, but that in some way privatisation and public service is carried out so that just the veterinarians who worked in those cells... And some have spent a lifetime there, they have invested their own personal resources, even though the station was state-owned in 1991 by passing an existing law, meaning one that is still in force. However, the veterinary public service was not treated by the State in this way as a public health service, but the only financing of the veterinary public service was through the programme of measures. So that part of the work relating to the implementation of the health care programme is financed by the state, and the second part of the jobs in many cells is achieved from other veterinary activities. It is precisely, by decommissioning part of the income was invested in equipping these veterinary cells, meaning, buying their own equipment, instruments, diagnostic devices, etc. It would be normal for tomorrow when the privatisation process comes that those people who have worked here and the working days have spent it buying and privatizing it. I don't doubt the good wishes and intentions of a colleague from the Department of Veterinary, and finally the Minister, that he didn't want to do all this. If in the parent law (I am not a lawyer, but the lawyers say so) it does not say that something will be done for the profession, then it can go to such an end, because the government itself has rejected the amendments and stated that the privatisation process is the subject of other laws, the Privatisation Act, and the Privatisation Agency. If you go only that way, then the veterinary profession and people, my colleagues who work in veterinary cells won't be very happy and satisfied with the adoption of this law, because there will be uncertainty until the moment until privatisation begins, or until the government makes a decision to make privatisation. This way, if the government's obligation is to make a programme, somewhere in some laws, it says in Republika Srpska's Veterinary Law that privatisation will be carried out under a special government programme. This isn't about being special, it's about the government program, but normally, it's about to be made up, and above all with the Ministry and the Department of Veterans. Unfortunately, it wasn't accepted. It is an opportunity to accept this amendment today in the course of this individual debate, because it was submitted to me precisely because of the demands of the veterinary profession and colleagues at the consultations and through the Serbian Veterinary Society, and during the public debate there was opportunity and could be heard, and in some previous drafts of this law there was just one member who was similarly formulated, and in the meantime he was lost in this final form of this bill. I appeal once again to Madam Minister, my colleagues from the Administration to accept this amendment, and also to fellow Members of the ruling coalition when we declare ourselves in the voting day to support this proposal, because it cannot violate the quality of this law, and it can only give one safety to veterinarians, which is a minimum of about 1,000 veterinarians working in public veterinary services, above all, to veterinary stations that, when the time comes, this country will take care of this profession and that public veterinary services will be privatised so that they will be of maximum protection of interests, above all, fellow veterinarians who have worked and invested for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20411	Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 165. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic to Article 169. The government is proposing that the amendment be accepted. The Committee on Agriculture has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on VETERINARY AGENCY, PHYTOSANITARY AND SANITARY LABORATORY (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić, Paja Momčilov, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milan Markovic and Zoran Micovic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, as you could see in the past, has always been an aprior against the establishment of agencies, which, above all, were parallel bodies to certain state services or especially when they were bodies that were parallel to the ministries that had, among other things, certain supervisory functions. For these reasons, we believe, above all, that it is unacceptable to set up such an agency which will be very heterogeneous, because in Article 1. The bill states: "This law empowers the Government to establish a agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories as a public agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency). The Agency will carry out professional and development work in the fields for which it will be established. "Actually, the agency will manage and coordinate, in accordance with this law and founding act, a network of laboratories carrying out laboratory tasks relating to: veterinary control, phytosanitary control, sanitary control and other forms of food control. They will perform animal veterinary control and phytosanitary control of plants not used in food, as well as sanitary control of drinking water, control of the correctness and composition of biologically active substances used in agricultural production, especially fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, fruit material, substances for the acceleration of growth, animal food, seeds, embryos, ovaria, and these are the eggs used for breeding cattle, etc. The Agency will take care to establish and apply unique quality standards for such heterogeneous areas, then, the criteria and guidelines for performing tasks in the laboratory network. The Agency may, where appropriate, provide samples for analysis of national and international laboratories. The bill also plans to establish two national laboratories: a national phytosanitary and sanitary laboratory in Batajnica to deal with residual analysis, microbiology, entomology, phytopathology, seed testing and a national veterinary laboratory that should also be established here with Belgrade-based animal diseases, which is an existing Veterinary Research Institute from Belgrade, and should be translated into that national laboratory for dangerous infectious animal diseases. In the principle of discussion, I said that this heterogeneous area of operation of these laboratories – it is 31 institutions, and within these institutions it is difficult to count how many laboratories it is – should be under the hat of one agency, one director, who should oversee work, and even standardise the quality of work, criteria and coordination guidelines, where veterinary laboratories are involved, plant testing laboratories, sanitary laboratories, i.e. labs doing a favor in the domain of human medicine. These are hygienic delusions, as they are most often called in the people. We believe that there is no valid coordination of such a conglomerate of institutions and laboratories, that there is no standardisation of the quality of work and that it is simply a waste of money. If there are certain financial requirements that want to help and improve laboratory work in these areas, then it should be appropriate for our terms or, ultimately, appropriate to the conditions of those states that give us that money and that force us to organise this. Rest assured, there is no state or state with a laboratory like this, nor is it possible to establish. I'm afraid we won't achieve anything by passing a law like this. Only for the establishment of the agricultural budget is 22,636,000 dinars, and it will cost much more. It's going to cost a lot of lab equipment, because the institutions that need to get into this agency have different lab equipment. Some institutes are well equipped, either these health care institutions, or the agricultural cells that will join this agency. Some are very modest, so if it goes towards being even and they all have a uniform or one level of equipment, then those who are modest, and those who already have something will be stopped. It would be logical if the government, i.e. The Ministry, if there is already a request to establish something like this, has declared a number of reference laboratories or reference institutions that will receive equipment and raise their quality of work, introduce international standards and quality. Unfortunately, this bill of law does not require the obligation of laboratories to enter the agency to be accredited. By law we were just discussing, you're asking that some of these veterinary institutes or institutes have accredited laboratories. There's cohesion and illogicality. The Veterinary Act requires that all laboratories be accredited in veterinary specialist institutions and in the veterinary institute. Now seven of these specialist veterinary institutes and two scientific institutes are entering this agency. You're not asking this law for these laboratories to be accredited. What's more primary here, which law will oblige these institutes, or according to the new law, to have accredited laboratories and what will they adhere to? There are many arguments to respect our proposal and our suggestion that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, that it be prepared differently, regardless of all the pressures that exist from certain EEZ institutions that work or finance through this "Cards" programme. We need to find another way to get these funds, improve the quality of the work of our laboratories, but also organise something that is suitable for us and spend them on purpose, and above all for equipment, training people and raising the quality of the work of these laboratories. At some later point, we need to see what can be united. Believe that something like this will be very difficult to unite, especially that a certain number of veterinary institutions, specialist systems, these exit systems, will no longer be state institutions. They're not given the opportunity to be. That's what I'm gonna talk about with the third member. Some institutions that are highly equipped and which have exceptional references, such as the Institute of Ratio and Ventilation from Novi Sad, which has the most equipped laboratories in our country, which have absolutely worked phytosanitary control in importing everything that has entered our country, are excluded from this agency with an explanation that they and the producers are seed goods, so here they can't control themselves. I can control others because they have the highest quality equipment, the most educated associates and experts. It's incomprehensible for one institute to get out of the system. A similar situation is with the former Yugoslav Institute of Technology and Meat Hygiene, and now it is the meat institute or whatever it is called. In time, he was a reference laboratory for the control of meat and meat products exported from our country. They have now been kicked out of the system through this agency, so I appeal once again: establish the real purpose of setting up one such agency and whether it can at all function and how much it will cost, or better to withdraw from the procedure this law and the means used to equip, educate experts and, in the right sense, use them. In a later period, when our EU accession is certain (we need to start talking these days whether we will accept the accession process), then we need to make it an agency or something else, but which will be much more effective and appropriate both in control and in this very action that needs to be carried out by such an agency or institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20413	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20414	Dear People's MPs, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment asking that Article 2 of this law be deleted. My party colleague, Professor Masic, explained in detail the reasons for handling the SRS in principle. I would now be free to make certain comments and sightings. I don't think there's any smaller and more destructive law that's been in this assembly for the last year. I'll speak from the doctor's position, since I'm a doctor. What falls into the eyes and is very interesting is that the law with a few members deserves such an extensive explanation, which absolutely failed us from the SRS to convince the correctness of the need to set up such an agency. Namely, what's this about? If it's true, as the argument puts it, and I believe it's true, that the objectives of passing this law are two primary and three secondary objectives, where the economic goal is put first, that's where we absolutely won't agree. First of all, maybe that's someone's most important -- the economic goal, the most important thing for us is people's safety. Laws are passed for people, not abstract concepts, such as economics. What is important to us is consumer protection through controls that provide safety and high quality food. You pointed that out as a key reason. If so, then you were obliged to bring policy on healthy food, some national, some guidelines and strategies. You have not brought a strategy on healthy and safe food, and you are already going to legislation to regulate that area. So you're doing the same thing all the time: you don't have a policy adopted, you don't have a strategy adopted, and you're going through a legislative partial regulation, which you want to know the things you care about to push and stretch. But what is it? Why did I say I was speaking in front of Serbia's doctor? As is known, in 2004 we adopted the Law on Sanitary Control, where the place and role of the Ministry of Health and Health in priority jobs for the protection of the health of the population was once again narrowed down. Let me remind you, this law narrows the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health to all three segments of public health: protection against infectious diseases, health regularity of life supplies and items of general use, i.e. hygiene of drinking water. This law has ordered the sanitary service to work. Of course, ionizing radiation, noise, tobacco, all that remains outside the jurisdiction of the sanitary service that falls under the Serbian Ministry of Health. We have been objecting, and we think that this is wrong, because we believe that the principle is still valid today, professional, that everything that has an impact on human health must be under the health and health care sector that deals with public health issues. Let me remind you, veterinarians and those from agriculture and those from the non-agricultural sector in the Ministry, that the medical profession has disciplines that have a preventive character, which are hygiene, epidemiology and social medicine that should deal with this. Don't worry and take care of the doctor, kidnap, unprofessional and incompetent, that you show yourselves here to be the only one who cares for healthy food. You have no right to do that. Where is it, if you already wanted to regulate this area in the right way, this is the Minister of Health? Why didn't he sign this? I'm guessing he's not crazy to sign such a perilous thing. That's all a crazy man can sign and incompetent from a medical point of view. When we talk about food, you're here talking about bringing European legislation. You yourself probably know what the basis is when we talk about healthy and safe food - an integrated system in which it has a leading role in sanitary protection, which will say human medicine, and then you're a veteran, and you've turned it upside down here, but you don't mind that... You steal, in your explanation you say, "Food disease control", right behind these goals, "zoonosis and other plant and animal diseases cannot be undertaken under the framework of internationally defined normal borders unless there is daily joint control and co-operation of sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary inspections. "There's a good way to say it is, you've rewritten it from some source. This is where you clearly put the order which is logical; it's about phytosanitary protection, it's about veterinary protection, but it's part of a system that can't be led. It can be your opinion, but what you've done so far is no wonder, and it doesn't surprise us in the Serbian Radical Party that it is. Therefore, you have absolutely not taken previous steps and tasks, you do not have a strategy of healthy food and safe food. Bring it in, then bring the food law, and then, within that law, regulate this question as well. Don't pull this off. You should know that, too, and you don't know that the sanitary service here is extremely strong and has a great tradition in this country. Take it, for 50 years, it's been celebrated since the founding of the Federal Sanitary Protection Inspectorate, which you have completely destroyed. There was a federal lab perfectly, well equipped, which was supposed to be a reference laboratory, and now you're making up some lab from Batajnica, which none of the doctors have heard of. What are those frames, what are those references? How can you point out that lab that it's leading on such important tasks as you're doing? Absolutely can't do that. A man would say there's only ignorance, but I'm not inclined to believe it's just ignorance. But, let's say, why do I think there's ignorance, but there's destruction of a system and in a radical way of imitating Europe, because Europe never says what kind of legal solutions there will be. Europe is just saying - you have directives, please respect the directives. That's what we all know, and this is absolutely not what Europe is looking for. Just to remind you, in 2001, after the October 5th event, the EU allows an emergency intervention arrangement for 10,000 tonnes of meat from our country to be exported to the EU. None of it's almost done. Why didn't it happen? Because of Mr Vitosevic and the assistant current Serbian Agriculture Minister. Let's remind ourselves of something else: In 2002, in the official European list, you have "Karnex" from Vrbasa, "Neoplant" Novi Sad, "Srem" from Šida, MIP from Požarec, "Chajetina" from Chajetina, "Juhor" from Jagodina, "Meso combine" Leskovac and "Stoko-Impeks" from Knjižec as slaughterhouses from which EU countries can be exported. Who informed the EU that only two of these could not have capable veterinary personnel? If you don't have a capable veterinary inspection and control to do this, how can you put that on the head of this chain of events and this protection? You laugh, it's a fake, and there are papers. You'll show it's not like that, as is your assistant inspector, the electric engineer. Where is it in the world that an electric engineer is the head of the agricultural inspection service? I don't want to talk about that man's biography with a JUL membership card. How you hit a slap - 20,000 agricultural engineers cannot be the head of this inspection service, but the sea of an electric engineer, who taught in high school, who did not deal with these problems. These are the reasons why we're told there's more to this than ignorance. There's bad intentions. Next, why don't we have meat exports to Republika Srpska? Because these slaughterhouses were removed from the European Union list, and the veterinary law introduced in the Federation in 2002 said they could only go from the European Union's list and those recognised between the signatories' states. Did you do anything to exchange with the Federation's list of slaughterhouses? What is our current export to Republika Srpska? That's what's very interesting. Six months have not been answered, as far as we know, from Republika Srpska for their request. Is it true that it took six months to start talking? Six months are not responsible for a request from Republika Srpska, which knew about the adoption of this law, to do so. Of course, Lijanovica can be bought here, his dry-meat products are all over the supermarkets and you can buy them. All in all, such a partial and hasty legislative solution absolutely does not need to be accepted, is not in the interest of those objectives which are drawn as primary, thus not being realized. If you want to do this, bring a strategy, bring the food safety law, and then bring this sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20415	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government proposes that this amendment, with correction, be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20416	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment has been submitted to Article 2, which says, "The Agency, in accordance with this law and the founding act, will manage and coordinate a network of laboratories carrying out laboratory tasks relating to... ", then it's further listed. The Agency will then take care of the application of unique quality standards, criteria and guidelines for the performance of these tasks. The Agency may, where appropriate, provide samples for analysis of national and international laboratories. Why did I ask for the word "accredited"? Because I don't get it, I'd like Mrs. Secretary to explain it to me, because it's possible it's a mistake. So today in Serbia we have one significant number of laboratories. Many of these laboratories are internationally verified through their work and work results, perform a large number of jobs and big money has been invested in these laboratories, etc., not to explain it. I'm asking if it's possible, if we pass a law like this, will we trust the agency that she practically prescribes by her founding act what labs they can do? Will the government's will, or agency, depend on which lab will be able to do the job and which one won't? If that's the case, then we need to know what the criteria are that the agency will decide which labs they are and which ones they're not. Because if there are no clear criteria, we can come to a situation where this decision is a result of someone's will, which is again due to political and various other interests, influences, etc. We can get into a situation where someone who now has a lab or who's willing to invest money in a lab in that variant remains unprotected from, again, who knows what reason. So, if I had a good interpretation - and I'm not saying that I'm 100% sure, for my sake, I have submitted this amendment, I would like to hear the explanation - the agency will determine by its act what network of laboratories it is. If that's the case, there's a possibility of abuse. There will be doubts, there will be accusations of various kinds. In order to avoid all of this, in my view, or to accept this amendment or withdraw the law, make such a law where the criteria will be laid down in the law itself, which will depend on the content of this act of the Agency, which will determine which network it is. I hope you understand my question. The government, of course, has rejected this amendment, it's already inert. I've seen something in this argument, and in the very reason of the law, it's about the competition of laboratories on our market – it's a little weird, because the government simply insists that those laboratories that aren't covered by that network will shut down, which is de facto and it wants to happen. First, it's wrong, because competition is choking, but it would be okay if there were clear and objective criteria, so that whoever doesn't meet those criteria can't get into that circle, doesn't have to work and doesn't have to work. What are the criteria, it's hard to know, because it's going to be a decision away from the public, because it's going to be made in some agency that needs to be formed. So much for that amendment, I'd just like you to explain the situation to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20417	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government proposes that this amendment, with correction, be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20418	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law states that the Government will adopt a founding act, appoint a temporary director and members of the Management Board of the Agency within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, and by a founding act, the Government will establish a network of laboratories and define their position in the network, as reference laboratories or regional laboratories, as well as the tasks they carry out in the network. Based on our principled position that the unnecessarily founding of an agency like this, I have suggested that this member of the bill be deleted as well. But what is interesting from the point of view on the basis of this Article 3 and what needs to be followed, the government stated in its explanation for not accepting the amendments submitted: "In the beginning, the agency would employ fewer people until the stage of equipment and professional training of personnel was completed, so that it would then employ about 150 people, which would enable successful exercise of the Agency's competence". So, this agency, in perspective, should have about 150 employees, according to the projections of the most likely Ministry of Agriculture and what the government has accepted. If we look at which institutions should enter the membership of the agency, i.e. with his labs, it's a national phytosanitary and sanitary lab from Batajnica. I don't know how many people are currently employed, but it is planned as a reference laboratory of national importance, as well as a national veterinary laboratory at the Veterinary Science Institute in Belgrade. This institute currently has between 80 and 90 employees. As a regional veterinary or phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, the Veterinary Research Institute of Novi Sad, which also has between 80 and 90 employees; the Royal Veterinary Specialist Institute, which has about 50 employees. Don't let me count on it. I'm just going to read the institutions that are supposed to be under this agency's hat. It's the Veterinary Specialist Institute, Nis. And here's the cohesion; in accordance with the previous law of this institute we have defined and in the new law they will be veterinary specialists, and here it says veterinary specialist institutes. Unfortunately, it was at least the government had to agree to make amendments. The adoption of a new veterinary law will not be the Royal Veterinary Professional Institute, but will be the Royal Veterinary Specialists Institute, etc. Here you listed it as institutions that are called by the existing law, but the new one won't be so. Further, Veterinary Specialist Institute - Šabac, Veterinary Specialist Institute - Sombor, Veterinary Specialist Institute - Zaječar. From the Corps of these veterinary specialists, this agency excludes the Veterinary Specialist Institute from Subotica, Zrenjanin, Pančev, Pojarec and Jagodina. It's five state-owned veterinary institutes that work safely close to 200 people. Of that, more than one third of the veterinarians, whose fate, activity and everything else will come under question, as they will no longer be in the system of state specialised institutes, will not do what is part of the scope of the health care programme. So they have to go out to market, do some services market-oriented, and they are not given the opportunity to privatize, to sort of change or reroute their intentions. No way or solution is given for these people and these institutions, as they will continue to exist. Further, under the hat of this agency should enter the Institute for Health Protection - Novi Sad, Institute for Health Protection - Nis, Institute for Health Protection - Šabac, Institute for Health Protection - Požarevac, Institute for Health Protection - Subotica, Institute for Health Protection - Kruševac, Institute for Health Protection - Vranje and Institute for Health Protection - Zaječar. I guess that's better for you doctors to estimate, how many of these former institutions or hygienic institutions are here, as far as it's excluded from this agency and whether they'll be able to conduct an examination of the hygiene of food of animal origin or food of animal origin, as the new veterinary law is called, and some of the other jobs that your seduces have done. Furthermore, the largest number of agricultural cells is entered into this agency compared to these veterinary and health institutions. This is a Agricultural station - Sombor, Agricultural station - Kikinda, Agricultural station - Kragujevac, Agricultural station "Petar Drezgić" from Sremska Mitrovica, Agricultural station - Kruševac, "Agrodevelopment" d.p., Nis, Agricultural station - Novi Sad, Agricultural station "Agrozavod" - Vrbas, Agricultural station "Tamiš" - Pančevo, Agricultural station "Ovčar" - Čačak, Institute for Agriculture "Vražvod", "Agrozavod" Vršac, Institute "Serbia" - Zaječar and Agricultural station "Smederevo" - Kolari. So, it's a total of 31 institutions that need to be under the hat of that agency, and inside it is a lot of laboratories that need to do this veterinary-sanitary control, phytosanitary and sanitary control, fertilizer control, pesticide control, seeds, embryos, etc. Again, I would like to point out the absurdity of this organization and the inability to coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture. As a veterinarian, I must openly admit, primarily to the veterinary public, but also to all other citizens, that in this way, except for these five institutes, a large part of the jobs will be obtained by veterinary services and professions, which have not been regulated in this way so far. I openly acknowledge and express my gratitude and fellow Members of Krnjajic, as director of the Administration, eventually also ministers. I don't think it's the only thing that can be proportionate and metric that I, as a veterinarian, would be perspective, and that we as a parliamentary group would accept such a law and such regulation or organisation of these affairs. So I appeal again, think carefully about whether together we are doing the right thing for those who do this work, who have done and what will happen to those who have not entered this system. I've already mentioned the Institute of War and Vr., as the most equipped, as one of the top scientific institutions in this country, with reputation and example. If they will not be able to work more for the interest of the state phytosanitary control, but it should be done by this national phytosanitary and sanitary laboratory in Batajnica, I would ask, if possible, that the minister at least explains to me - whether this institution exists, what it does, how many people it does there and how much it can be put in line with the Institute of War and Ventilation. There are other institutions dealing with these phytosanitary studies, which are also quality and well equipped. On the other hand, I'm sure some of these agricultural stations that need to get into the system have no personnel, no equipment, no potential, and will be authorized to do certain jobs for the interests of the state. I don't want to bother the MPs anymore, I've been out many times and in principle I've been against reporting several times, but you'll understand me, given that I'm the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and an authorised representative in front of the parliamentary group, that I've had to take this kind of participation in this. Finally, I appeal once again, first of all, to the promoter and to you MPs who have a majority in this assembly, to consider whether one of these legal acts should be passed or to accept our suggestion that this should be withdrawn from the procedure and, in a later period, set up something like this in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20419	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20420	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of this, that this law, in my opinion, is a little quick prepared and that it is necessary to fatten up whether or not to accept it, only one correction that must be made here. On page 5, where there are numerous regional veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, number 29 stands – Agricultural station "Smederevo", Kolari. That institution doesn't exist at all. There's a Department of Agriculture "Smederevo", Kolari, as it stands. Therefore, it is only proof that in the preparation of this law it has gone too quickly, too hasty and that it is necessary to fatten up whether it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20421	The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20422	Dear People's MPs, I said this is a destructive law and it can be seen clearly from member to member. The third member is prescribed that the founding act will set up a network of laboratories and define their position in the network as regional laboratories, as well as the tasks they carry out. I've drawn attention to the fact that today in the modern world, when it comes to food safety, one integrated approach, an integrated system that has its parts. I repeat again, for those who don't know it yet, sanitary protection is very important in that chain and most important, because we don't bring laws for animals, but for people, and by our laws, we people want our animals to be healthy, for them, for human reasons, and because we're surrounded by them, and we want to keep our health that way. You set yourself a great goal, food safety, and then all of a sudden you bring all of this down to laboratories and you list the laboratories that are listed and you talk about health institutes in each of Serbia's cities. When we talk about food safety, then you can't talk about that safety unless you follow the food security situation. So far, that function has been performed by the Batut Institute. All data on health failure or food regularity have been streamed from regional institutions to Batut and these data are delivered to the international community. It's not a matter of food safety to go to the lab and see. It is necessary to interpret what it means and should be integrated, at the level of the entire state, to draw conclusions. That's where it falls. You've completely kicked Batut out of this system. According to you, the information system has nothing to do with it. You're tearing down an existing, very good system, narrowing down the concept of food safety and health care to some kind of license that will be obtained in some lab and the end of the story. You can't do that in this Serbia. You who tear down what was well done and done must know that there are other people who don't deal with it. You currently have power and you will vote with your majority of MPs and this, but the professional public sees what you are doing and there will be time, thank God, when these serious mistakes will be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20423	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20424	Ladies and gentlemen, the least I expected from Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic was to thank Mr. Paja Momchilov and Professor Zoran Mašić politely for the education she received for free on the subject covered by her ministry and these laws. You have seen by the content of our amendments, and by what MPs have spoken about amendments to both of these laws, how serious the SRS parliamentary group is and how truly, for reasons of the profession and improvement of the law we write amendments, we propose amendments. All colleagues who spoke today were experts precisely on the areas covered by these two laws, and it is amazing that during the day, the minister had no need to engage professionally with colleagues who spoke about these amendments, to say something that would have contributed, of course, to something more meaningful than what the Government has explained in its reasoning, which is why it does not accept these amendments. Even some colleagues from other parliamentary groups directly urged Mrs Dulic-Markovic to answer some questions and the others were denied, as the rest of us were, for these concrete answers. I usually like to talk specifically, clearly, and so I'm going to do a little work on the part that Dr. Paya Momchilov was talking about. When it comes to the work of the Ministry of Agriculture just to remind the MPs, as well as the public of Serbia of the 2001 period following the famous five-octobar revolution bulldozer, that the EU has approved, in gratitude to the revolutionaries then, the revolutionary government of the Republic of Serbia, then the SRJ, an export quota of 10,000 tonnes of meat. Nice of the EU, but not nice since then, Minister Sasa Vitosevic and then his right hands Ivana Dulic-Markovic, that the quota, imagine, remained untapped. It's just amazing. Don't smile, Madam Minister, but after me, if you need to, come out here and tell me what you have to say, you and your associate, you've been laughing in the face of Serbian Radical Party MPs all day long. That's inadmissible. Do you know here the relationship between us and you, and especially you, sir, I don't know what role you're in here, that you laughed in the face like that when Dr. Paya Momchilov spoke. It's inadmissible. Indeed, the president of the Assembly is most strongly voiced by the protest, and should take care of who he allows to sit on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This doesn't apply to you, of course, as a minister you should be here. So, Mr. Paja Momcilov also spoke about imports, about the approval of imports in relations with Republika Srpska, and he mentioned that there is no such imports, but it was approved for the BiH producer Lijanovic. So said Mr. Paja Momcilov and said – I don't know why he can't from Republika Srpska and Lijanovic can. Gentlemen, I'll explain. Lijanovics are from Širok Brijeg, and I hope that it is clear to everyone why the current ministry approves of importing Lijanovic, not Republika Srpska producers. You see what's written here, this is the data, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, which we from the SRS have received from your best environment, from the Ministry, and you know that we have that possibility. It is a public secret that only one who meets two conditions can come to the post of director of a public veterinary station: one is that it is a member of G17 plus, and another, which is amazing, that it still has to contribute 5,000 euros. The directors of the station and all other public veterinary institutions are appointed by member G17 plus Dr Dejan Krnjajic. Isn't that right? That's right. Control over the implementation of all rules in the area of agriculture is carried out through the inspection sector, which is normal. You, Madam Minister, have suggested to your aide in this sector, Dr. Paja Momcilov said only the profession of that man, and I will name it, you suggested Stojan Arizanovic, a graduate electric engineer. This Mr. Stojan Arizanovic may be good at another ministry, but I don't know what he'll do at the Ministry of Agriculture, but he seems to be a man who works perfectly in all systems. He was an assistant to the inspectors Marinko Radic and Milorad Jaksic, the Julyers, and he was a Juvenile himself, and then he was an assistant to Dragoslav from the time of DOS, then he was in one of the DOS parties, and today he's your assistant. Let us also forgive him for that, he may have learned something, although he is an electric engineer, but we cannot forgive him for the fact that he is being prosecuted before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade under number K 1218/01. This information, Minister, is not an honor to you or your ministry. I want to say something now about the amendment and the draft laws for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories. My colleagues, doctors Paja Momcilov and Dr Zoran Mašić said from a professional point of view enough about why this law should not be passed. I'm really a lawyer, not like this Stojan Arizanovic of yours to meddle in what I don't know, from that aspect I'm not going to talk about this law, but I'm going to say on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that I'm proposing to delete Article 5 of this law. Article 5 says – this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I'm going to explain this a little bit because your party colleagues often comment in public shows on how we from the Serbian Radical Party are submitting amendments for amendments, so we say, delete, delete, and even delete that the law is published in the Official Messenger. I am for that very reason, to explain this amendment to this Article of the 5th Law. If this law had any meaning and if we from the SRS had accepted the existence of such a law, then we would have treated it as the previous one; we know we needed the veterinary law, and therefore we tried to help the government and the congregation majority of our amendments to regulate this law the way we Serbian radicals think it should be arranged. You don't seem to agree, it's your right, we don't mind, you're going to provide most of it, you're going to pass that law. None of us said that law should be passed. Of course, we think he should be different, but we'll do it after the next election. This law should not exist in our system; the law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratory has no place and should not exist in our legal system. For this reason, the only way that our parliamentary group should express that view as I say it is to propose that each of these members of the law be deleted individually. There's nothing to fix, but to wipe. Then it's normal to delete Article 5, which provides for publication in the official messenger of this law. So, back to what I was about to say. If we thought this law was supposed to exist, so that, possibly by amendments, we could sort of dress it up and courte it, then there'd be room for this member to be talking about publication. If we don't think the law should exist at all, then of course it can't even be published. I said this more for the public. The fellow MPs know it well, and those who in the media are trying to downplay our work by just explaining our position when we propose to delete individual members. In particular, in the light of this amendment, and the amendment... Hey, buddy, do you have anything to say? Come in, your MP group has a right to speak for 15 minutes, don't throw it away, it's not nice, it's a colleague from G17 plus. So, in the light of the amendments to this article, we have clearly said, the explanation is the same for all amendments, because the amendments are identical, that it is impossible to coordinate from one centre the work of 31 institutions with at least so many laboratories, and then stands which control they perform, whether veterinary, sanitary, phytosanitary, etc. This is all in line with the amendments, and then there is a vague explanation of the government that says why it does not accept this and the other amendments - because the establishment of an agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories will establish an institutional framework that will ensure control in the production, transport and international trade of agricultural and food products. So this doesn't agree with what we said, or fully confirms what we said in the context of the amendment. The government continues to say: "In the process of institution-building, the European Union, through a programme of assistance implemented by the European Agency for Reconstruction, implements the equipment of seven veterinary, 14 phytosanitary and nine sanitary laboratories, as well as training staff in these laboratories. "I don't know if you're going to introduce fitness for the staff in these labs, I don't know what that training means to you. The government also says only 150 people will be employed for the start of this agency. It's simply impossible; this business content, then or you're doing this just for the sake of order, without the intention of really doing something serious, so you're confirming that we're right and you don't need this, or you need to hire a lot more people to cover this area that's set out in this bill. I find this interesting, it said, in the light of this bill, that the government will adopt a founding act and appoint a temporary director, members of the board of directors within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Why, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, temporary? First, why would the government pass a founding act if we had the law? Second, why the temporary organs? We know from the Serbian Radical Party, the public of Serbia, every day we can see and have enough information about who's in which board of directors, how much it costs to vote for this law, how much it costs to vote for that law, and then through the law you provide for some temporary bodies, so when you need someone to vote a law, that's where you're going to set it up, so when they cancel obedience, you bring another one, because you're allowing yourself through the law. I repeat, the time to explain the amendments is running out on me, the SRS is such an attitude that this law cannot and should not be passed. It is unacceptable for us to say that this activity will be financed in part by donations. We know very well that donations cost us very much, and in the application of this law, it can be too much for the lives and health of Serbian citizens. For the start of the work of this agency you predicted from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 22,636,000 dinars. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the ruling majority, every law of 20 million, 50 million, 100 million, citizens of Serbia can no longer bear the funding of your, especially unnecessary, agency for the arrest of party thinkers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-28-0.u20425	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby set Thursday's Rules of Procedure, September 29th, 2005, at 10.00pm, as a day for voting on all the agenda points of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you all and pleasantly.
