ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16948	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Goran Knezevic and Dejan Rajcic. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE AGENCY FOR THE CERTIFICATE OF DEPOZIT (specificities) You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Veroljub Arsic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Ljubisa Djokovic, Bojan Kekić, as well as amendments to the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Veroljub Arsic and Bojan Kekic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text, with a correction. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16949	The Honored Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 3 of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, concerns, above all, that the Agency shall carry out the tasks of compulsory insurance of deposits of natural persons, in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 3 applies, first of all, to Article 2 where we ask that the words of the ′′s to the insurance companies, as well as the words ′′ implement the process of privatising social capital and the procedure of selling state capital to insurance companies, are deleted. The essence of this amendment is linked to the Privatisation Act, which defines the entities responsible for the implementation of the privatisation process in Article 4. One of the subjects is the Privatisation Agency. Article 5 of the same law stipulates that the Privatisation Agency is a legal person who promotes, initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process, in accordance with the law, with the possibility that the other law could regulate the position, rights and other issues of importance for the Agency's work. Although that legal provision provides that the Privatisation Agency is authorised to carry out and control the privatisation process, the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency also authorises the Agency to implement the privatisation of capital in insurance companies. This is how two bodies are educated with the same powers, contrary to the basic principles of the position of legal entities and which creates legal uncertainty in the matter of jurisdiction for the implementation of the privatisation process. It is unacceptable to place the same type of business in the jurisdiction of another entity, so that the solution proposed in Article 3(2). The proposal for a law on a deposit insurance agency means simultaneously doing the same jobs as other bodies. The practical application of this amendment and this law would mean that insurance companies are treated as financial organisations, or, as the Privatisation Act and the Business Society Act are defined, that privatisation of insurance companies should be carried out by the Privatisation Agency. Even more practical would be who is in charge of privatising DDOR and ZOIL "Dunav" in the Republic of Serbia. In a conversation with the minister at the SPS parliamentary group, we received a firm promise that ZOIL "Dunav", as surely the largest insurance company in the Republic of Serbia in social and state capital, will not be privatised for the next few years, and the bottom line is that DDOR and today, as an insurance company, has a lot of actions bought by foreign partners. Automatic privatisation of insurance companies, both ZOIL "Dunav", and DDOR, would mean an absolute privatisation of the entire market relating to insurance companies. Since I've submitted amendments to the insurance law, I'll speak more specifically about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16950	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are at the 10th point - deposit insurance agency. Article 3 to which I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS shall define the tasks carried out by this Agency. Among other things, it also performs the function of a bankruptcy or liquidation manager in banks and insurance companies, participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, organises and implements the process of selling the shares of these banks, organises and implements the privatisation process of social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies and performs other tasks established by law. They're pretty high-level responsibilities for an agency that's had a completely different name by now. So far, this agency has been called the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. We are all aware and aware of the fact that the result of this agency's work so far has been that 29 domestic banks have been closed, in a very suspicious way, that someone has taken advantage of this bank closure as a good business move, that it has come to an exceptional business space for small money and that, thanks to this business space, it has begun to earn great money for itself. Furthermore, what else is not under the control of the encrypted political party? A few months ago, we had the NBS withdrawing permission to work on certain insurance companies. Moreover, there has been a lot of talk in the public, but mainly this story has been directed towards what citizens who had some insurance in these insurance companies, what their rights are and whether or not these insurances are valid. The Finance Committee, as responsible for this matter, discussed it twice. We got some material from the NBS, which wasn't complete, and we asked that the NBS and the governor deliver us complete material that the National Assembly of Serbia and the Finance Committee have insight into what the NBS is doing. We've got a new material, marked "strictly confidential", "state secret." A new session of the Finance Committee is scheduled. Members of the SRS and members of the Finance Committee came to the session and someone, interpreting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, declared a session closed to the public. That's what I can understand. So the journalists were excluded from the work of the Finance Committee, but I cannot understand that it is also required that the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who are not members of the Finance Committee leave that session. That's what Serbian Radical Party MPs didn't want to participate, so we went out. Why is the right of MPs to attend board meetings denied, what is it hidden from MPs who are not members of the Finance Committee? Will this agency deal similarly with the Committee on Finance and People's MPs who are not members of that committee now, what is so terrible about this material and what is happening? I examined the material, found nothing so important that it was closed and unreachable to other MPs. So much for the transparency of this government, therefore, and even for what it is, and even for the MPs not to be informed in certain situations of certain issues, and even for them not to be allowed to know. What's this all about? There are only insurance companies left, so they're not controlled or controlled by the NBS, and now we're going to put insurance companies under the patronage of the deposit insurance agency. I'm surprised you didn't ask insurance companies to pay some deposit to the agency, too, that in case the company couldn't pay the insurance premium, the agency did, but the agency was in charge of the work and control of the work of the insurance companies, so you predicted. As already regulated by the Insurance Act, which has entered into force, you have separated car insurance, life insurance and other types of insurance and now has to form more insurance companies from one and why? To sell them easier and cheaper, because in Article 3. The bill says the deposit insurance agency is conducting a process for privatising social, i.e. state capital in the insurance companies, and the question is, what do we need with the Privatisation Agency? Let's go nice for every area that exists in the economy, in the economy, for every area that needs to be privatized, to start one agency at a time. So, to hire you encrypted in those agencies and to sell it out as soon as possible, you put your fees in your pockets and get the job done. The question arises, what is the aim of the promoter? The money remains only with the insurance companies, an extremely interesting way of gaining profits. So, due to some old benefits from earlier systems, even before moving to a multi-party system, certain insurance companies had a monopoly on the market, and now the goal is to transfer that monopoly through the privatisation process to someone close to this government and put another pair in their pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16952	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill establishes a deposit insurance agency. However, the promoter must know that it has already been established on two grounds. One is, as we see in the transitional and final provisions, the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, therefore, the "Official Journal" No. 84/89, 63/90, 20/91, as well as the "Official Journal of the SRJ" number 53/01, as well as the Law on the provision of funds for the establishment and operation of the Federation for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks. So we can't start something that's founded again, there's no reason. We're just changing the name of this organization. So it's not about setting up, it's about changing the institute, or an organization that's going to deal with deposit insurance. As regards the provisions of Article 3 which lay down the rights and obligations of this agency, the SRS's objection concerns the process of selling shares, as well as the privatisation of social and state capital of the insurance organisation, which in fact gives extremely great authority to this agency, and we avoid a central monetary institution, the NBS, which would have to be involved in the privatisation business of both banks and insurance companies. The Deposit Insurance Agency, in its current form and current organisation, does not have sufficient relevant data and facts to implement the privatisation process. In order for her to do it successfully, she would have to have the data that the NBS has. Therefore, the NBS has all relevant data and can, as a central institution, lead an adequate policy in the area of privatisation, and in particular this relates to the privatisation of banks. Since we have entered the privatisation process of banks, we cannot allow an institution that does not have enough data to carry out the procedure. However, some parties that are in the monetary sphere, which primarily refers to G17 plus, are thus rerouting the centre of government from central monetary institution to a particular institution, and the current agency has 30 employees and has no relevant data and facts on which to carry out the privatisation process. I think the privatisation process itself will be bad and it would be a very counterproductive move by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16954	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Djokovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Ljubisa Djokovic and Bojan Kekic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has a People's MP, Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand that the amendment be deleted "and insurance companies" and I will give a similar explanation as last time, that is, for Article 3. So it should be defined whether insurance companies belong to financial organisations and whether this agency is in charge. It is also stated that the function of a bankruptcy and liquidation manager does not have to be performed by the Privatisation Agency, or the Rehabilitation Agency, but is still regulated. What is important is, if I can get a hold of myself, which is in the process of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, therefore, since the agency will be formed, regardless of whether it will have jurisdiction over the insurance companies, it would also have to take care of the banks in bankruptcy today. ′′The fire bank′′, which has been Braničevsky County’s development bank for more than 40 years, has come into the situation since 1956 that the third year’s bankruptcy proceedings have not been completed, and that the property, I mean, primarily, material property, business space and, if I may say, basic assets and small inventory, has been sold to the commercial bank′′ for 165 million dinars, although it is a business space that is about 4,000 square meters in size. So, 4,000 squares, and of which 30 squares in the centre of Požarec has already been sold for 3,000 euros; the point is that, if a price is cut, ′′The Commercial Bank has bought it for about 350 euros per square.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16956	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16957	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talked about this so-called. Of course, we couldn't pay individual attention to each law because we were talking about 12 laws at the same time within this package. At that time, we from the SRS announced a number of amendments to all these laws, including the draft law on the deposit insurance agency. Article 6 of this proposal states that the function of a bankruptcy or liquidation manager in banks and insurance companies over which the bankruptcy or liquidation procedure of the agencies is opened shall be carried out in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. The amendment was intervened by eradicating the word "insurance society" in this article, because, in the principle debate, it is not normal and it is not usual for each individual privatisation to form a new agency. The point is that the current coalition in power, i.e. the government of Vojislav Kostunica from day to day, is showing continuity with the governments of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic, because the agency has become a modern way of functioning of the government of the Republic of Serbia, although representatives of one of the ruling parties have sworn here in time to break down with the formation of new agencies, that they too consider them to be parallel authorities. None of that happened. On the contrary, we have another agency each time. The one we're talking about today is really something that is absolutely unnecessary. The deposit insurance agency is absolutely unnecessary if we have the Privatisation Agency, where Article 5. The privatisation law says the Privatisation Agency initiates, implements, controls the privatisation process. It is absolutely unnecessary for each individual privatisation to pass a new law. Here, Minister Dinkic, when explaining this set of laws, said these insurance laws were passed due to the privatisation of the Novi Sad DDOR. So, something incredible -- that the minister, or the government, is proposing that we form an agency to privatise the DDOR! It probably needs a special agency to employ people who will work neatly, in line with the minister and government's views to implement the privatisation. We from the Serbian Radical Party are in principle, and every time we say that here, absolutely against the formation of agencies. We think all these jobs you're predicting can be done within the ministry, that certain departments and sections can be formed in the ministries, and so on when it comes to this agency, that is, this law; we cannot and will not vote in favour of the government's bill of law. We suggest that you adopt this amendment, when you are already passing a law that at least looks like something, that it is not so obvious and so transparent that you are trying through this Parliament to put a certain group of people, who will finish the job for someone from the government, into these agencies voted by the Assembly. The government takes responsibility in that part of itself and then the agency will be formed, to finish the job as ordered, and we will again have a full newspaper of comments on another criminal privatisation. Therefore, dear colleagues, once again I call you - vote for this amendment, I know you will for the law, but at least try to pass through the adoption of this and other amendments to bring it to some limits of normal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16958	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Leila-Ruždić Trifunović, Ljubisa Djokovic, Zoran Krasic and Bojan Kekić submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16959	Most of the MPs who spoke about this law were actually talking about Article 10. It's a bill of law. For public purposes, it should be stated that the Agency organises and implements the process of privatising social capital and the process of selling state capital in insurance companies, in accordance with the law governing insurance. A completely illegal status, a provision that falls short of the general principle and of the general law governing the privatisation process. Although there is an invitation to the general regulation on privatisation, it is practically promoted by Labus and Dinkic's agencies as an authority implementing instead of the Privatisation Agency. In order for the public to know what this is about, I have to say that the Deposit Insurance Agency, the bankruptcy, the liquidation, and in one period and the resolution of banks, has long existed, that it was the only agency in our legal system. It existed at the federal level, above all to take over a bankruptcy manager in those cases where banks go into bankruptcy, but it is also known for the recoverys it has done, several banks, I think it was the Niška Banka, Podgorica Banka and one of the banks from the ′′ Jugobanke′′ system. Later, the development of jobs, especially after 1993, followed the idea of ensuring the deposit of natural persons and exactly the part where the state practically bears responsibility as a guarantee of savings roles. Then she got the significance of that third function of her being a bankruptcy manager in banks against which a bankruptcy procedure was initiated. As one of my predecessors has said, we already have an agency, but this bill does not define its status, in transitional and final provisions there is no provision that says the name of the existing agency is changing and regulates its legal status. This is where a new agency is set up, and there is no provision that says what the fate of the existing agency is. I must remind myself that this existing agency only came into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, when there was a decomposition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with high-mental moves such as the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter. What's underprivileged in this proposal, and you can see that there's bad thinking, sick thinking to grab everything, is in the very proposal of this law. In turn, Article 3 describes what would be the authority of this famous agency, and it is said, among other things, that it participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia. How can a potential bankruptcy manager participate in capital management? How? Who is this mind that came up with that? Where did you find this genius? It is the same as saying that a potential licensed bankruptcy manager is at the same time in the congregation of a future company that goes into bankruptcy a representative of the shares of a capital owner. I don't know where you could learn that. In the literature of the previous Yugoslavia, pre-war Yugoslavia, the new Yugoslavia and in EU regulations there is none of this, and as soon as you come out there are the yellow stars around you. Any stupidity given by this government is the ultimate extent of joining the EU. Would that be possible in a European country? Of course, there is no genius and that the public hears what kind of nebulose you're bringing into the law. That wasn't enough for you. Then you said that insurance companies should also come under the authority of that agency, because, as you say, between banking and insurance jobs and there's no principle difference. There are fundamental differences, but you don't want to notice that fundamental difference. You state in Article 7 that this agency participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the business of these banks and the work of their authorities and by performing other tasks on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. A potential bankruptcy administrator appears here as a mediator, as an authorised representative of the capital bearer of the Republic of Serbia. How is that possible, people? In which country is that possible? You have trampled the Law of Assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, you have trampled the Constitution, you have trampled all possible regulations because of your pathological desire to control all financial flows and to fatten your mustaches over other people's funds and other people's money. As a highlight of that comes this article on 10th where you say – this agency will also privatise social capital and sell state capital, in accordance with the regulations. We know what this looks like in accordance with the regulations; when Mladjan Dinkic and Labus dictate. ′′According to the regulations, a decision of the Supreme Court is not recognised, no court ruling is respected, and that is all in accordance with the law. When the snow falls, and his time is gone, then the tracks must come out. Here are the clues, which is Article 16 – the Agency's board of directors has seven members, including the president; and then it says – members of the board of directors by the function they perform are: the finance minister, Mladjan Dinkic. So, as a member of the board of directors of the agency, he as a minister has both tax authorities and budgetary control and customs control over his friend, and you can see that he also comes here, the vice governor, has control over the National Bank. Now he enters the agency to cheer and dress who goes into bankruptcy, how it will be sold, at which price will be sold, to whom it will be sold. The next minister is in charge of business. Why you put him in, I don't know. He's probably gone rogue from his party, so he's making out with Parivodic and some others with his electricity. Who else did you put in there? Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the story closed. Kostunica plays Prime Minister, the Kobajagi wonders something, steams everything under Labus' control. You are now going out here, and you are asking the Serbian Radical Party to vote in favour of this bill. What kind of people would we be if we voted for a bill like this, where there are a lot of insinuations in the text of the bill, and I would say the facts that prove organized crime. You're making me support organized crime. How can you not be ashamed? You've still written... Well, let's make you some masters, so you can fool us with a game of words, a game of terms, and say, "The EU uses the directive, so you can call on some things." No calls. Why? Because we're reviewing those directives and we see that you're lying to us. You've made a total papazian of the deposit insurance agency: it's been given the authority to run and bankrupt and liquidate banks, to be the government's authority in managing and selling state capital, to be the authority that controls privatisation and decides on privatization of capital in banks and insurance companies. And whatever else you need, tell me what else you need. All I've been counting for you is two-thirds of some of the functions that can't be given to someone who claims to be a bankruptcy manager. You're a potential bankruptcy manager to all banks and all insurance companies. Why insurance companies? The occasion of Article 6 has been explained more than once here – why would you, the agency, be the bankruptcy manager of insurance companies, are trade courts not capable of that. We now have the situation that Jelasic picked up that team that shut down the banks, visited insurance companies, made the right solutions, and you will see, in the context of the insurance law they say – since we have established that a large number of insurance companies do not respect the law, that it is an illegal business, we have decided to change the law. Based on that logic, the sick logic... I guess everyone should behave according to the law. If the law doesn't fit, we're changing it, not because someone's breaking it. You admit here – we're changing the law because the dunav′′ violates, the DDOR violates, and we don't have the courage to shut them down, but we can put these small things out. How many people lost their insurance policy because of your trip and the monopolies? You call it a monopoly, an unauthorized monopoly. Please, why do we need anti-monopoly law? We don't need anti-monopolis law, because all monopolies are installed in the law, these individual laws, and as these experts suggest, what Europe with stars adores. If you want to pass the law in the National Assembly, then propose a law in accordance with the Constitution, try to justify such an idea on the basis of some estimates, analysis and expert examinations, but do not come to us with ordinary paper on which is a list of rude desires of Labus, Dinkic and those they represent for some money. Do not ask the Serbian Radical Party that, voting for such proposals, it is neither guilty nor obliged to cooperate with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16960	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point out a few facts to the provision of Article 7. The bill, which says: "The agency participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the business of these banks and the work of their bodies, and by doing other jobs as well... ". We know in our legal system who controls and who controls. In our legal system, the authorities of a particular society, certain institutions, manage. We know who these bodies are: the assembly, the board of directors and directors. In this case, the agency cannot be placed in the position of any authority. Shareholders manage through the assembly, through the board of directors, each in their own domain of competence. With this bill, we give the agency the right to participate in the management of those banks where the shareholder is Republika Srpska. Yes, but not the agency, but the people appointed by the government, or government representatives, who participate in the work of the assembly, the board of directors or as directors. The second row of this article lists how they manage, and it is said "to monitor the business of these banks and the work of their authorities". What does it mean to monitor the work and is it management? Observers came and followed the work. Is that management? The very formulation of this article is not adequate to the legal norm. We have to drive her crazy. We can't leave her like this. If he's in charge, then he's in control, he can't follow. Furthermore, Article 9 states: "The Agency, in accordance with the act of the Government, can take the following measures with the banks of Article 7 of this Act: 1) cover potential losses" etc. The cover of potential losses belongs to the category of bank recovery. (President: Your time is up. ) If the legislator of this law had little list of the EU deposit insurance directive, then he had to find provisions that there was no recovery of the banking system individually or collectively. In exceptional situations alone, the directive allows for this, precisely on what basis and what types of deposits. (President: Please bring the end, your time is up.) ) In order to protect the banking system, the central monetary authority or government of a particular country, under the EU directive, can take over, but only on certain types of deposits and nothing more. With this standardization, we allow the agency to buy out the potential losses of those banks that she wants. We can't let that happen. It's too wide an authority, and I think there's going to be an abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16962	Replica, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16963	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that people who go out for a pay phone and talk about agencies don't actually know what it is. To oppose in different areas the formation of agencies means to oppose reforms in general. Opposing privatisation in Serbia means resisting reforms in Serbia. Oppose the introduction of order in Serbia, you probably know what that means for you. I'll tell you that the public agency is authorized by law to establish and apply rules in its field of action. If we want it shorter and clearer, it's a government agency that regulates matters of public interest. If we look at the definition, we'll see that you're actually bothered with the rules, you're bothered with certain things being regulated, that order is being introduced, and by the way, you're trying to tell the citizens what the truth is, that I don't express myself as a stronger qualification, so you're using a lie as a basic tool for a congregation speaker. That's not allowed. Public agencies exist in both American and European traditions. We are a country that has set a path to Atlantic integration. If that bothers you, then everything that's tradition in those countries bothers you. In North American tradition, a public agency is a public sectoral organisation defined by a government body or authorized by a government body for public purposes. There are different levels: federal, state, county, city, even village level. For example, there is a Canadian Agency for the Economic Development of Quebec, there is an Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. In EU legislation, you have a whole range of different agencies that regulate things in certain areas, such as: the European Agency for the Promotion of Living and Working Conditions, the European Environment Agency, the European Monitoring Centre, the Office for Harmonisation of Internal Markets, the European Medicines Agency, the European Agency for Safety and Health, etc. There are a whole series of agencies that regulate different areas. (President: You're out of time. I'm done. Also, in our environment, the Republic of Slovenia passed a Law on public agencies, which analysts see as an important element of Slovenia's strategic reform plan for the public administration. This law creates new agencies for fields of activity and tasks where European legislation requires the introduction of independent, financial autonomous regulatory bodies to apply new principles of public administration. Such are the agencies for technological development, for regional development and energy and a whole range of areas... (President: Mr. Albianic, please bring the end. I'm done. So, who opposes these things and still mentions the banks, and we know well that in the banking sector the best reform was made, because today the savings in banks are worth a billion and five hundred million euros, and in your time it wasn't, there was no savings, you couldn't raise your salary from your current account. So all you're saying here is just one slight attempt to disrupt normal discussion, because if you have a solution, offer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16964	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please state by which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16965	I answered because of the use of the word "false." Mr. Albianic, it's not policy to go out on the street and blow on a whistle. It's the same for me from the pay phone, but in that assembly over there, Mr. Zebic once said in a replica that I was using lies. You're the other man in my political career who told me I was lying. You haven't figured out what's on the agenda at all. There's no law on public agencies on the agenda, so you can tell us about Quebec. There's a deposit insurance agency law on the agenda. On the agenda, both by name and by jurisdiction, one agency that exists in the legal system from the time you blew into whistles, and just blew into whistles. To deal with politics, you don't just have to spit on some politician, you have to have a political idea. You're saying we're not suggesting anything. Well, we suggest you leave power, and we suggest it very culturally and elegantly. How? Bringing out facts and making political views about why your bill is wrong. In this bill of law, you have had the opportunity to hear probably in the course of my speech a minimum of twenty standards that prohibit such a law being passed in this text. We do not dispute that in the country there is a Deposit Insurance Agency and bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. This is the agency where your people were members of the board of directors – Janjusevic, Kolesar and Dinkic and Labus. But you don't know that you've already been to that agency. That's your problem and the problem is that now in this gala of nine laws, where you broke the matter that was in three laws, you're trying to cover your tracks. I have proved to you, on concrete examples of jurisdiction, the total control of a political party. That's what you call seducing order. I told you here last time. Dinkic's got everything in order if he's under his control. If it wasn't under his control, it was all a crime, so he went so far as to even attack your Davinic. He's going to attack everything, unless it's under his direct control, so when you want to replicate who you're replicating, say what your replica is looking at, what you've misread in the previous speaker, what the previous speaker said isn't true, say what practice is in other countries. You started with some recycling agencies, forest trees, etc., and there's still something on the agenda about the insurance of natural persons' deposits.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16966	Replica, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16967	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's true that I have a whistle and it's like a prop on a wall to remember a time when we took you down from power, when we shot down a non-democratic regime that ruined this country. Secondly, you're talking about a political idea, and you don't have one. You're only spreading an empty story here at the assembly pay phone. Janjusevic and Kolesar were never our allies, on the contrary, when we discovered that they had a conflict of interest, we made it very clear to the general public, when they misused the position and when they found themselves in court because of corruption. To drop the government, you say. I will tell you this: this government has made it possible for all citizens of Serbia to get a positive assessment of the feasibility study thanks to its activity. A few days ago, US President George Bush signed an indication giving Serbia-Montenegro the status of a privileged trading partner. Let me remind you, these sanctions were imposed in 1992. So over 4,000 products can now be found on the American market. Next, as an example of the responsible government and the household budget of the Republic of Serbia, I will tell you that in 2003, the budget deficit was 45 billion dinars, 2004-22 billion, and in 2005, it will be a surplus of three billion dinars. Several arrangements have been made with the IMF. The delay published a few days ago, a seven-month break in debt payments allows us to invest that money in investment and expansion of production capacities. I remind you that in 2005 for Serbia means the largest coming of investments, about two billion euros. All this is the result of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministers from G17 Plus. You can say whatever you want, try to do in some domestic political marketing to explain to citizens that this government is not working so well; I know that citizens are not doing well, that they are not paying at the level we would like, because we want to enable and create such a system, such mechanisms as in EU countries. Why? To make people better, to make an average salary, to make the standard of living better. You can explain to people whatever you want, but these signals coming from the international community say that this government has a solid reform path and a path leading to Euro-Atlantic integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16968	MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16969	Article 10 of the proposed law says the agency organises and implements the process of privatising social capital and the process of selling state capital to insurance companies, in accordance with the law governing insurance. This member of the law directly determines the authority of the Agency and if we remind ourselves of the amendments that we have submitted to Articles 3 and 6 it is essential that this member exists, in a situation where insurance companies are not treated as a financial organisation, but as companies. In the context of amendments concerning the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, I will explain in detail what is in the framework of the Insurance Act, and as regards the Deposit Insurance Agency, it does not stand, if the assumption exists, so again, that insurance companies are not financial organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16970	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 26. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 27, with a correction. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 28. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 29. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 30. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of OSIGURANJ (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Vjerica Rade, together Sanja Čeković, Blagica Kostic, Staniša Stevanović and Milan Ninić, Vojkan Tomić, Ljubisa Djoković, Meho Omerović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Bojan Kekić, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A report by the Finance Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted has been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Vojkan Tomic and Meso Omerovic submitted the amendment, in the same text, with an amendment, which they suggest to add a new article 13a after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Veroljub Arsic and Bojan Kekic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16971	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard several replicas. This new amendment and addition of the Law is about all discussions so far. All these legal proposals appear to be made only for the purpose of controlling one political party over the country's full economic and economic flows. If they were the political parties' good intentions, it might not be a problem, but experience with that political party, which once called itself an expert team, is extremely bad. He comes out for this pay phone one of my colleagues says – the best reform of the banking system, 29 banks are closed, killed, destroyed; several thousand people are out of work; the business space of these banks has been taken over by other banks close to the expert team, occupied in some rather inexplicable and suspicious way. Now the question is, what's next next? Next up are the insurance companies. After banks they have the largest capital in the state. Certain insurance companies even have some mild monopoly on the market, thanks to earlier management and regulation of the social, economic and general financial market. Now it takes someone to take advantage of that previously acquired monopoly, privatize those insurance companies as it suits him and, if possible, put another pair in his pocket. We'll see where it ends, on some island safe; that island is probably in some ocean, etc., where later, when it falls down, it will slowly spend that money if it gets out of the country. Article 35, which I have submitted to the amendment, regulates the following matter: ′′The subject of privatisation is social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies. In the privatisation process, the property or part of the property of the insurance company may be sold in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by this law. ′′ The question arises – which law regulates the privatisation of state and social capital? First, the same ones who participated in the creation of the Privatisation Act did not equate social and state capital in the best way, and they should have, that is one legacy we did not need. The conditions under which social and state capital was sold should be evened. In addition, a question arises whose social capital is and what is the difference between social and state capital. ′′The privatisation process set out in Article 1 of this Article shall be initiated by the Ministry. ′′ There is a problem, which ministry? What's the department's jurisdiction on this? Is the Department of Business and Privatisation? Does the Ministry of Finance? As laws are written and who is authorized by a proposing representative, I would say the Ministry of Finance is competent. We now come to the most interesting position: "The Deposit Insurance Agency established by a special law organises and implements the privatisation process of the capital of the position of the 1st member". What agency is that? Deposit Insurance Agency. Here, we've been discussing this agency the second day, and what have we found out about this agency? So, first of all, he's in the business of securing citizens' deposits. Apparently, he works in their interest. In earlier discussions, we saw that it was, rather, a colorful lie. He starts acting as a bank in his doing business, so that he can buy records of the values broadcast by the NBS, which is broadcast by the Republic of Serbia, can buy securities of value with the consent of the NBS and other banks and states, means that he generates revenues and profits. He can run the bank's bankruptcy, he can run a bank that is currently inequitable, and it's in the process of liquidation, knowingly and intentionally damageing, so that its bankruptcy manager, whom the agency appoints, will probably take credit from that same agency, under more unfavourable conditions than he would take from another bank. Now another deposit insurance agency, which has a very popular one, I would say, a name that is more suited to it – the Deposit Insurance Agency, liquidation and bankruptcy of banks, deposit insurance agencies, established by special law, organises and implements the privatisation process of social and state capital in insurance companies. It can even, under certain conditions proposed by this law, manage certain insurance companies. Is that agency all-powerful? What is she? Is it the deposit insurance agency? Is it a bank liquidation agency? Is it a privatisation agency? Is it an insurance agency? Then the question arises why the Privatisation Act? Unquestionably, the law is bad, it needs to change. There is no will of the congregation's majority to change that law and to make the provisions of that law, which is bad, change. But now we have parallel other laws, which are even worse than that privatisation law. So you don't need to talk about signals from the European Union that your reforms are good here, you'd say they're some kind of smoke signals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16972	Anybody else answer for a word? People's MP Bojan Kekic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16973	In Article 35. The draft law, in the existing Article 243 of the amendment, refers to the erasure of paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5. It is not disputed in point 1 that insurance companies should be privatised. Namely, the Privatisation Act provides that the Privatisation Agency has the authority to promote, initiate, implement, control the privatisation process. Also, Article 16. The Privatisation Act provides for the privatisation process to be initiated by the initiative of the competent authority, the privatisation entity. Furthermore, the same member is prescribed that the privatisation initiative is provided to the organisations of the trade unions operating in the privatisation entity, as well as that the employees are informed in a manner established by this act. The Privatisation Initiative shall be submitted to the Privatisation Agency according to the said Article of the Privatisation Act. However, Article 243. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act provides for the privatisation process in insurance companies to be initiated by the Minister and the procedure for the implementation of the privatisation of the insurance company's capital is entrusted to the Deposit Insurance Agency. Such a solution hurts Article 85. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been defined as the property of governance and participation in the decision-making process. According to this solution, the state would assume rights which, on the one hand, have insurance companies, and on the other hand, rights belonging to shareholders, thereby obtaining powers that do not belong to them. The state can only sell its shares, but not other people's property. In what moment will it be the Legislative Committee and will surely determine whether there is a contradiction to the Constitution and the law, but note, as the last time I spoke about the Deposit Insurance Agency, the basic postulate of the overall debate on amendments to the Insurance Act is the answer to the question whether insurance companies represent a financial organisation. Given that the deposit insurance agency has been presented primarily by the people who deal with finance, I can also say by profession, it is certain that in perhaps a slightly wiser, or more legal-theory-based way, this law could also be in line with the Bank Act and all other positive-law regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16974	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vojkan Tomic and Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must return to this law after the Deposit Insurance Agency, since it also allows the privatisation of social and state capital of companies that carry out certain tasks of general interest. I think we also avoid NBS as a central monetary institution, which should be involved in all these affairs. Why does that seem? Only the legislators of this law know this, and since we know who the legislators of this law are, we know that behind all these activities is a group of G17 plus, it is expected that there will be abuse, regardless of the head of this central monetary institution being represented by a G17 plus, but it is obvious that this is one way of bypassing an institution without which they cannot go through these privatisation jobs that are important and vital. He objects to representatives of the Serbian Radical Party to obstruct reforms. This is reform law, but the motionary himself in this case is bypassing a central monetary power he can't go around. The deposit insurance agency shall have no information relevant to the privatisation operations. So she's going to sell something she doesn't know how much she's worth, or know the procedure and the way she sells it. The agency itself has 30 employees working on insurance jobs and nothing more. So they don't have a chance to do these jobs. The central monetary institution employs far more professional, quality people, who deal with this problem, who have all relevant information for privatisation tasks, and it is strange that the institution bypasses. Furthermore, the agency is given certain rights which do not stem from the provisions of the law on the deposit insurance agency, meaning, one lex specialis law, because this is lex specialis compared to lex generalis; meaning, general law, the law on the agency does not allow what makes this special law possible. In this case, it's a special law. Again, a strange legal provision, which simply leads, first of all, us astray, if we know who is behind it, and we're afraid there will be abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16976	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16977	Given that there is a lot of talk about this proposed law, I must say that I am a little surprised that the strategy of bank development and insurance companies has not been announced, because if the strategy of developing insurance companies claims that "Dunav" as the largest insurance company and one part of the insurance company DDOR Novi Sad will be this state, or social insurance companies, or companies, then surely in the proposed solutions to the text of the law (and this applies primarily to workers' actions) there should be some changes. It is thus proposed that employees be entitled to a purchase price paid by the sale of capital referred to in Article 243(1) of the proposed text. It's nothing controversial. According to Article 42. The Privatisation Act stipulates that part of the capital is transferred to the employees in shares, without compensation, for each full year of employment in the privatisation entity, up to 35 years of employment. The proposed text provides that employees are entitled to a fee of 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in the privatisation entity. The concept of compensation implies that workers do not receive actions to which workers are authorised in other enterprises. Therefore, they do not have actions that they can sell under market conditions or which they can retain and participate in company dividends and thus acquire and exercise certain management rights. What is also important, so if the rapid privatisation of insurance companies is carried out, first of all I mean the ZOIL "Dunav" and the insurance company DDOR Novi Sad... I will present several parallel indicators that talk about gross premiums in thousands of euros. In 2003, there were 384 million dinars in Serbia-Montenegro, while there were 805 million dinars in Croatia, in Slovenia there is a gross premium of 1.279 million dinars. If we look at the number of inhabitants in millions, if we count that Serbia-Montenegro is 10.5 million, Croatia 4.39 million, and Slovenia 2 million, counting on absolute privatisation if it comes to ZOIL "Dunav" and insurance companies such as DDOR Novi Sad, we are coming into a situation that we will first of all privatise the market, i.e. we will leave a wide space for insurance companies to come and make privatisation, primarily markets in the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. If this is added to the fact that the Vojvodjanska Banka will be privatised, we come into a situation – because for years the bank has been a Vojvodine Development Banka, with various loans it has provided, which relate to mortgages given to companies – that foreigners will come into ownership of agricultural land. With the promise of the finance minister that this law, i.e. through the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or as it is said, that all these debts of such enterprises will be purchased by the deposit insurance agency, I believe that with certain control, above all this assembly, we can prevent the Vojvodina country from going into private hands, but not in the private hands of our citizens, but in the private hands of foreign citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16978	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16979	You're changing Article 243 of the existing Insurance Act, which is really problematic. It reads: "The process of privatising social capital in insurance companies, in addition to the entities established by the rules governing privatisation, can be initiated by the ministry. The privatisation procedure referred to in Article 1 shall be subject to the rules governing privatisation. "Let's say it's a correct provision, although when we passed the Insurance Act here we objected, but to say that it's a correct provision. Now that doesn't suit Mladjan Dinkic. What's he offering? The member should now, according to him, reads as follows: "The subject of privatisation is social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies. In the privatisation process, the property or part of the property of the insurance company may be sold in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by this law. The procedure for privatising the capital referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be initiated by the Ministry. "The mandatory entity has now become the Ministry. In the current law, so before this change, it was given only as a possibility, and now it is a mandatory driver of the procedure. "The Deposit Insurance Agency established by a special law organises and implements the privatisation process set out in Article 1(1). The Ministry shall supervise the implementation of the procedure referred to in Article 4. "The minister is a member of the board of directors of the agency. The agency is conducting privatisation, and the minister is overseeing the agency's work. There's no conflict of interest in that expert who blows in whistles, which keeps a whistle in the house. Who can you convince now that this is normal? Find a man on the street and say – please, is it normal for Dinkic to start the procedure, to be at the agency that does it and then to control the agency that did it? Is that, in your opinion, normal? If it's not Dinkic, then Djokic some. If there were a Djokic, you'd be jumping; if by any chance Slobodan Milosevic had already been bombing, you'd be looking for a bombing, experts would be looking for a bombing. And you're now convincing us that this is a European directive. What country does this still exist in? Tungusia, dilcania, what state? Explain to me in which country there is such a solution. Vlahovic laughs, he laughs funny. I don't know who else in this country, except for G17, would suggest this. I don't see anyone on the political scene, not even one who caress the pig when he walks around on behalf of the Serbian Force Movement. The one who caress in front of the cameras wouldn't suggest this, but you're boundless. You have a sense of logic – if under the control of Mladjan Dinkic, it is normal, it is legal, and if it is not under his control, it does not exist, it should all be killed, destroyed, it is all thieves, dogs, etc. Don't ruin the country. You passed the Law of Conflict of Interest and that blower in the whistle just before said – Janjušević and Kolesar, was a conflict of interest. There was a conflict of interest between Labus and Kolesar, but it's a private conflict of interest, not what the state considers to be a conflict of interest. You're installing a conflict of interest here, you're building a conflict of interest here. We can talk about whatever we want against this Privatisation Act, this Act of Acina, but in that law, surveillance of the work of the Agency is carried out by the Committee of the National Assembly. Not here, but a minister who is a member of the board of directors of the agency, representing the state in terms of capital, and later on we will talk about these other provisions, about manipulations on how to preserve, sell or determine capital. Guys, what are you doing? This Vučetic will change, he will not always be President of the Constitutional Court. Someone who knows little about the Constitution and the law must come, who will be strong and say, "You from G17, stop a bit." There's got to be someone else who's gonna say-- wait, guys, this can't happen. It can't all be G17 plus. This is Serbia, not G17 plus. This pathological desire that exists with you is problematic, and you who are making a government must be clear to you what kind of coalition partner you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16980	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr President-in-Office, I have tabled an amendment on behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. More or less this amendment was explained during the opening debate on this law and it essentially refers to eradicating certain provisions of Article 36. This is about the installed principle: instead of free division of shares – division of money, and only for those who work in a privatisation entity, 200 euros per year of work experience, and at most 35 years of work experience. The second key correction concerns the granting of authority to the Agency for the implementation of the process of selling parts of an insurance company's assets which it operates with social capital. I believe that both the provisions defined by this article of the law are very dangerous; it may satisfy the very short-term interests of not only the Ministry of Finance but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it also opens huge dilemmas that can be very largely costing not only the Ministry, not only this government (which will not have a particularly long century), but also a future government that will implement the privatisation and restructuring process over much more significant and much more vital resources, but also the resources of public enterprises. Firstly, it is a little illogical that someone who declares himself, and this is the government of the Republic of Serbia, has persistently said that he is actually a supporter of the development of action in Serbia in this way, in a certain way, it is precisely measures that affect the halting of the development of action in Serbia. It is simply illogical that in the real sector you have, by law of 1997 and by law of 2001, one huge material for stock trading, and hence for the development of action in Serbia, and that in the insurance activity you apply the lex specialis provisions, which are allowed by this special law, but which are completely economical inconsistencies. I ask the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the public what will happen tomorrow when we start privatising large public enterprises – which are persistently, constantly and for months announced, but whose implementation and beginning we have failed, even so far, to see – does this mean that if workers of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia demand money tomorrow instead of actions that individual law on electricity will enable the distribution of money instead of sharing actions? Does this mean that a similar situation will happen at NIS? What is the objective of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? To encourage savings or consumption? In this way consumption is directly stimulated, instead of encouraging savings and investments, because having shares is a kind of saving and investment. If the explanation – let the workers take their money (those that will be covered by the division of money, instead of sharing shares), let them then go to the stock market and buy actions, I think it is, in the least, one cynical and irresponsible explanation, because it is not realistic to expect workers to take the money and go to buy actions, they would rather shift that money towards personal consumption. We are here to witness the whole series of measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to reduce personal consumption, in order to reduce this strong pressure on the external trade deficit, that is to say, on imports of goods and to reduce the source of external trade deficit growth. You've also seen in the provisions of the lease law, which is witnessed by a letter from the Lising House Association, to actually stop the development of the losing business. I understand why the government's doing this, but I can't justify the moves. So it works to stop personal consumption, and here it creates one huge potential for future personal consumption. What is the essence of all these contradictory measures that come systemically or operationally from the Serbian government? If the aim is to reduce personal consumption, encourage the development of action. If it is not the goal of reducing personal consumption, then do not use other measures of credit-monetary policy, fiscal policy, but have growth with increased inflation, and this is possible not only in economic theory, but also in the practice of transition countries. That's the first reason it's not good. It's not good, in an educational sense, to have a division of money instead of sharing shares. The distribution of money is always associated with what is insulted with us and what is the product of a long-term period of development of socialist self-management, where instead of ′′ earning a salary′′ says to get a salary′′, instead of ′to earn’, using the term ′to get a′′. What does this mean? Dealing money instead of sharing shares? Is this a step in the education of shareholders, those who are due tomorrow to represent the backbone of the development of the financial market in us and through the development of the financial market, the backbone of financial incentives for the development of the economy? I would really like to hear one meaningful explanation why this provision of the law is introduced in Article 36, why money is divided, not action. Once again, it is not good to have a law that serves only a certain purpose, not to introduce certain legal provisions and make a precedent because it may be in one or two cases, of the future 50 or 100, that suits us. It's not good for the particular interests to define the general rules. I am sure that this government, unfortunately not this government, because it will not be in a position to restructure, or the privatisation phase in public enterprises, but any government that leads to a policy of privatisation of public enterprises, will go straight to the head, because, my lords, tomorrow, there will be a situation for us and the companies left to privatise from the real sector may be looking for a change of the Privatisation Act and instead of actions to ask for money. Money's always more attractive. I really ask the Proposer to reconsider whether it is appropriate to have one such solution within the Insurance Act and I would really like to hear (not just me, I suppose the whole public) why it seems to be precedentd in the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, i.e. why it goes to this variant defined by Article 243g. On the other hand, I'd like to know what the point of giving the agency jurisdiction to sell real estate, or non-business property, is, more specifically, property that is not used for direct business purposes. In some explanation on the Finance Committee, I was informed that it is not the point that the agency is selling non-business assets to go into the budget, on the contrary, the money should remain in the company that has the non-business assets. What, then, is giving the agency the right to sell non-business assets, more specifically to directly endanger the legal independence of a legal entity? I note, insurance companies with a list, up to one, are not public enterprises, so that the state can intervene in the sale of non-business assets in one way or another. I can agree with a member of the law that says that whenever assets are sold more valuable it is necessary to ask for the consent of the agency, because the fact is that through this so-called. asset striping, or translated into our language – burping funds, has rarely occurred in social privatisation companies prior to privatisation. But to transfer the powers directly belonging to the legal independent entity, in this case to the insurance companies, to the state agency, to another institution to carry out the sale of assets – I really don't see why it seems. If you don't trust the management of these companies, then let the shareholders change management. If the company's strategically defined plans are not trusted, then those who are the owners of capital, even if they were workers as representatives of social capital, should change their management and set up a new one, which will do this job more effectively selling non-business assets or entering into the sale of those assets, since we are witnessing that the unrequited social enterprises on one side whine that they are in a liquidity crisis, and on the other hand have huge non-business assets which they are not willing to market at market prices and use that money for business flows. What I would like to say, since it is evident that in a concrete case it is a very specific non-business property which has the Dunav company at its disposal, and not wanting anything to say about this property, but above all about the principle on which privatisation should be established and based, I am sorry and glad that the minister confirmed, following my remarks during the principle debate on this law, that this is exactly the principle of the privatisation of the Danube, which is the realisation of the initial public offering. Realisation of the initial public offering, which will say a permanent, continuous action "Dunava" on the stock market, but also a previous privatisation over the stock market, without the possibility that one individual owner has a larger block of shares than the defined percentage, and that is not more than 10%, with individual stockings of several percent on the stock market at appropriate time intervals. So this model of initial public offering really requires an efficient company, in which shareholders, therefore, who will invest their money in buying these actions, have a lot of confidence. This means fully arranged books, a positive financial report, fully settled balance sheets, not for one year, but for a period of several, and at least two years in history. That's why he needs the money. "Dunav", as it is, at this point cannot be the subject of an initial public offering, because it is a busy company, not in terms of work, but in terms of the number of employees, because the company that has mining development, as well as another company, insurance services, is a traditional insurance service. There are no key insurance services operating in other developed insurance markets. Then, because it's a company that has very high obligations, etc. All this requires money for consolidation. Isn't it logical to let the Danube sell hotel facilities and use that money as cash and Flow, as part of a strategic plan to prepare the company for the initial public sale and then go out with the initial public sale? What's going on here? The agency will run a story about the initial public offering, on one side. Who will lead the restructuring of the Danube in that time? Does the agency have the authority to restructure the Danube? I'm not sure, since there's no restructuring institute in insurance companies. It is certain that "Dunav" will not be part of the overall restructuring process, as something run by an agency that is responsible for such a thing. It is certain that the Danube will not be in the classic restructuring process as we know it in these large enterprises. Weather non-synchronized actions may occur. Secondly, will we once in this country build a stable management of not only public enterprises, but also large enterprises of social importance, where political change will not cause changes in this management? I dream of a country where professionals will do their jobs, and politicians will change as if on tape in any next election, which will have no impact on both administration and public enterprises, or large businesses, where there will be no party deployments. If we have a division of jurisdiction between, on the one hand, one state institution, where politics has much greater influence, and on the other hand, one seemingly independent society, a social enterprise that is completely independent, I'm afraid there will be a general galatias in the privatisation process itself. I think all the reasons I've stated are enough for the motionor to reconsider and accept this amendment that goes towards correcting this legal text. I don't think what I've been talking about really has any political interference, no opposition remarks coming from the DS Parliament Club, but the goal is to get one good basis for starting privatisation and in insurance companies. I really don't think creating a precedent is a good start. On the contrary, it can cost a lot in later cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16982	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Bojan Kekić and, with correction, Ljubisa Djokovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vojkan Tomic and Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment to Article 36 asking for a new member to be deleted 243g. An explanation requiring the removal of this new member: "Amendment is submitted for the reason that the planned compensation is being violated among other things by the social programme and makes it impossible for workers to acquire action without compensation, in breach of the constitutional principle of equality of employees in the exercise of their rights and interests. Also, the proposed solution is contrary to Article 10. The law on the market of securities of value. "Article 243g spoke a lot about my predecessor Mr. Vlahovic, but I will read the part to which the amendment applies, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, in particular the position 2 which says: "The fee from Article 1 is 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each full year of employment in a privatisation entity, and for 35 years at most, with the total amount not exceeding 15%... "and so on. What's this about? First, employees of insurance companies, and as things are probably going and employees of public enterprises, above all I think of NIS and EPS, when there is restructuring and preparation for the privatisation of these companies, we put them in an unequal position in relation to the shareholders of the shares received on the basis of years of internships in the privatisation entity. All companies under the previous law are privatized by one part, I see that this is a 15% figure, and it turns assets into shares and shares to employees, according to the number of years spent in a privatisation entity. We don't allow employees in insurance companies here, and probably public enterprises the next day, because it will come in line very quickly, to have actions and to have these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the west is the best kind of savings stock purchase. So, not even armed savings, but buying shares of profitable enterprises, because these shares three months, six months a year, provide a dividend that is far greater than the interest the stockholder would receive in the bank that he gave money on savings. So here we are bringing into an unequal position of workers in insurance companies, creating another difficulty for future privatisations, given that it is mainly social and state-owned enterprises that are not privatised, where the property is in a rather invisible position. Compared to these, we're putting them in a position where their actions will be far lower. That is why the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radet, asked for this 243g to be deleted, among other things. Otherwise, the Ministry of Finance tends to start, say, number 243, so, b, v, g, d, two alphabets and three alphabets, instead of putting the members of the law into regular numbers, of one and until it's over. I don't see any reason why such drafts of the law should be given, unless it should also confuse the MPs and, possibly, distract them in the preparation of defence or attack on individual members. The procedure before which insurance companies are now is absolutely the same as the procedure before which the banks were. So destroying what can be competition, whether private or social banks, leave the chosen ones and prepare the buyer for them. You remember what happened to the banking system, that four of the largest state banks were destroyed to clear the market and to sell the banking services market to foreign or domestic banks that are mostly privileged, and these are two banks. There are still a few private banks that haven't been able to drown to the end yet, and I expect that, while this government continues, it will end with other private banks. Now we're opening a insurance market for a company; one part by selling insurance companies, first of all I mean "Dunav" and DDOR, and the second part is already prepared by many insurance companies, let even very promising, private, already shut down and strangled. As a result, MP Verica Radeta asked that Article 243g be deleted, that instead of the 15% fixed, instead of the required 200 euros reduced for costs, etc., they get the shares of these insurance companies, so that they bear, share the future fate of that society. In the end, since this morning, and every day, they're waving at friends from the West, I'm gonna take advantage of the opportunity, since we've got a little time to do a little digression, I hope you don't mind. In time, when the fascists came to Pablo Picasso and admired his painting, they said, "But if you did this well, Mr. Picasso replied, "No, gentlemen, you did it." Your friends from the West, besides the fact that they couldn't fit everything in this paper, did this: this is a picture of little militia Rakic being killed in Batajnica. The Zemun municipality has formed a small Milice Rakic fund, a fund tasked with caring for children whose parents died in this war, about children who were wounded in this war, about the fate of various humanitarian actions. So please, I'll share one copy of this paper in the afternoon, you have a jury account here, call your friends from the West, and you wash, if you can do it, at least part of your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16984	The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16985	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, I am reporting for amendment to Article 36. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act relating to a new Article 243g. In essence, this amendment foresees erasing this member and relying on what Ms. Verica Radeta has submitted. This is the part of the law that suggests that employees working in an insurance company receive 200 euros each year and may be less, as the law suggests that this can be reduced, the total amount of compensation cannot exceed 15% of the purchase price. The proposed solution therefore provides that employees have the right to purchase price compensation, while it is in accordance with Article 42. The privatisation law stipulates that a part of the capital is transferred to the employees in shares, without compensation, for each year of employment carried out in an enterprise that is a privatisation entity, where it is also said that it cannot be over 35 years of employment. Therefore, this proposed solution is at least contrary to this member of the Privatisation Act. It is not only the opposite, but also the right of these employees to receive shares under this Privatisation Act and to participate in the capital market, i.e. have the right to retain them and participate in the management of certain insurance companies. Why would the law take the right of employees to assess for themselves whether they will retain action, or whether they will sell them on the securities market? The proposed solution is also contrary to the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, because actions are a type of securities of value that are part of the basic capital of a company; the law says that securities of value and property rights can be obtained by both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons and by law are defined to be free of charge. It is clear that in this way they will not exercise the rights provided for employees of other privatisation entities, who become the owners of actions, which we have had the opportunity to see in some other companies that have been successfully privatised and who have sold their shares – as minority owners they went to the free market of securities of value and went very well with this trade of their actions. However, there is a problem, too, contrary to the position of those persons who participated in the privatisation of certain entities. They are brought into an unequal position of persons who have received actions and are free to participate in the paper market and these persons who would receive compensation, i.e. a certain type of severance. For this we have an example, in some ways, and in the case of restructuring certain companies, where workers are offered to leave a particular company with their will and to take some compensation. In this way, the rights of these workers to the social programme are threatened, which is also contrary to the principles declared that workers who are surplus (and we have surplus in two of our largest insurance companies, which are "Dunav" and DDOR) are provided with a quality social programme. That is why I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment and to comply with those provisions in the Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16986	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16987	As soon as it starts with some exceptions and specificities, they tend to become a rule and, as you can see, based on the exception and specificity of the previous law, the rule here is now being promoted. One of these rules is a new Article 243d which speaks of the distribution of funds secured by privatisation of insurance companies with social capital and state capital. Here is some analogy of the Privatization Act, but in one wrong way, because the very foundation of this idea is wrong. As you could see in the previous article 243g, there was practically two parts of the privatisation process, so the employees also receive some compensation, and their position, their own status does not exist, there is only employee status; there is no link to any analogy when it comes to the regular privatisation process, where in one percentage they share and those free actions, so they later gain some value on the market, but above all give their owner the right to decide whether to continue to be a shareholder of a company or not. Here no, here is where this automation is created, avoiding the distribution of free shares, everything goes for money, but the legal status of employees is once again problematic in this variant, because there is no such thing as interspecies that they have received their actions. Of course, this law is not just a matter of privatisation. It will ultimately be most visible when it comes to privatising insurance companies. There are a whole series of provisions that we didn't want to change at this speed, because the government today filed a request, and the same day the president scheduled a 45-point assembly and then of course some things missed. Things were missing from Articles 17 and 31. The bill and I would ask you to have that in mind when voting on these amendments. Intervention in Article 17. The bill refers to Article 115 of the Law, where pages 1 and 2 are changed, so they only get a new text that says: "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes restrictions on certain types of deposit and investment under Article 114 of this law. "Here, the National Bank takes over a complete apparatus, gets the authority to interfere in everything and everything, by some decision of its own, with some regulation. What's out of the law? It has been ruled out that the amount of individual deposit and investment of assets under Article 114 of this Law cannot be higher than the percentage of the total amount of technical reserves, and that is: 1) 5%; of 1%; 10%; 30%, etc. So they give criteria, conditions, a rule that must be followed by the National Bank of Serbia and insurance companies. However, it is not enough for Mladjan Dinkic and group G17 plus. They don't want to have any restrictions, any restrictions in the law. One very precise and clear provision is being changed. How? By obtaining unlimited powers, and then they don't see that attitude 3, which became attitude 2, and attitude one doesn't communicate with each other at all, they don't communicate legally logically. At their speed to grab what they can grab, as Davinic looks to grab this villa on Dedinj, they also changed Article 197 concerning the revision, added a new stance 3 and rudely violated the law that regulates the status and work of audit houses. He says, "When deciding to give consent under Article 2 of the National Bank of Serbia, it comes from the professional competence of auditors and the truthfulness and objectivity of reports previously submitted, namely whether earlier auditors' reports have been drawn up in accordance with international audit standards." Why are they putting it in? They put it in because of a bank they shut down, and the audit houses made several positive reports indicating that the bank should not be shut down. As a sign of revolt and madness, a new provision is being built in, which concerns insurance, so that it doesn't happen in insurance audit houses. Of course, that's where your audit house is being promoted again, which audits the NBS final account. Simply, when you propose a member, a law, from a member to a member, you manifest that pathological wish. Whether it's an IMF order, the World Bank, I'm not interested in it at all. But everything you propose has no cover in the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. There isn't! You, with one member's position, derogate the entire Audit Act, derogate everything. For what? Because of pathology, it's pure pathology. Why? The wolf is silent. We're going to start a procedure in front of the Constitutional Court, why would we do that, if someone held it in a drawer for two or three years and didn't consider it, because Dinkic and Labus sit down and say it's not desirable at this point, what the world is going to say, the World Bank needs to postpone some loans, make a story for us in a moment. Since all this talk about Article 243 makes some logical connection, then comes Article 243a, to which we have also submitted the amendment. That's where you prescribed, say, that the insurance company that operates on social, or state capital cannot, without the agency's prior consent, make decisions. There are again ministers and ministers, and now there is an increase in capital, mortgage, debt, etc. and finally says – taking or approving loans or issuing guarantees, outside the course of regular business. You have complete control there. This means that when it comes to any insurance company operating with state capital or social resources, it is no matter what, you through the Ministry, the National Bank and the board of directors of the agency do whatever you want. You can get the insurance company on your feet, you can destroy it. You need this authority if there is a conflict of interest between you, and the director of the insurance company on the board has some approximate majority, so you can't change it; then you put this in – you need agreement for everything and for business. You're probably looking for a connection with a provision of the Company Act, which also concerns the availability of social enterprises that have not yet been privatised. You're simply destroying the legal system. You've financially destroyed it years ago. You're making a monopoly of your own accord. All the instruments of power and power you hold, not the one who commands the military, the police and some things. You're in charge, because you keep all the bills under your paw, under your control. If you're interpreting it as a transitional justice, you're in a terrible error. If you want to set Labus and Dinkic for us as some new democratic standards that the world supports, remember, there is one small problem: the people do not support. The one who survives these reforms of yours and these stories of yours will tell. You're doing everything against the market, against the market economy. You're inventing new institutes that don't exist on the globe of the Earth. Don't make us vote, and I'm thinking we don't listen to what you're saying anymore, because we have nothing to hear here. You've been read and there's no telling what you might say. It is enough for you to say – there is money; then, as in football, the Dur System – everyone where the ball is. It's a group G17 plus. That's what citizens know. You've made fuel lines, but also for the lottery, because that's all there is left for people to hope for, and ′′Happy account;". Fun the audience, no problem at all, just remember, the people are quite quiet, which can be very dangerous for you from G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16988	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? No, he's not here. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on STEČA AND LIQUIDATION OF THE BANKS AND BOOKS FOR OSIGURJE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Veroljub Arsić, Milivoje Vuković, Tihomir Đurić, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Vojislav Milajić, Sreto Perić, Branislav Rankić, Natasa Jovanovic, Lazar Cavić, Nemanja Sarović, Zlatko Radić, Dragoljub Šamić, Dragolić, Vjerica Radeta, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Živković, Igor Živić, Momar Marković, Milos Dišić, Miljko Četrović, Rodoljub Gačević, Tomislav Penezić, Zlatan Jovanović, Milan Svetanovic, Milan Svetanovic, Milan Švić, Slavanović, Slavinović, Slavinović, Slavinović, Žalnić and Anti. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic withdrew the amendment submitted to Article 5 at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 140, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic.. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16989	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are entering the finale of everything that has been said. So, all of this so far, all of the legal proposals have been to bring together the draft laws on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. So the law on the deposit insurance agency and the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act were also just the predecessor of this law, which is the essence of all these discussions by the MPs of the SRS. So it's not about any regulation of matter, adapting to legislation, it's about the desire of one political party, one political organisation, a couple of people who run that party and that political organisation to control all the financial flows in the state. Article 1 concerning this amendment and whose erasure I have requested is said: ′′This law regulates the terms and conditions of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, as well as the conditions and procedure of the liquidation of other financial organisations. ′′ So, just in case, if they've forgotten something about these previous amendments and the additions to the law to cover, this Article 1 could be affected by any financial organization. There is no need to talk about how so far it has been and how so far the proceedings have been conducted, firstly, the withdrawal of the bank's work permits, how 29 banks have been closed, how over 29 banks are run bankruptly, how none of those 29 banks have finished bankruptcy. The question arises whether these banks should have gone bankrupt or not, what about these banks, what about the business space of these banks, what those banks did wrong to the governor at the time, and the current finance minister withdraws their work permit. Many questions, very few answers, because they can only imagine – that someone wanted to in one way that is criminal and the banks removed from the market and allow some privileged newly established banks, who entered into that bankruptcy business space, to simply make profits and, if possible, to use that property of banks that are in bankruptcy and liquidation. Now it's up to the insurance companies. There have already been talks and on this, others are financial participants in the insurance companies. They have a certain monopoly, thanks to heritage; this monopoly should be used, to re-enter several privileged insurance systems and record extraordinary profits. There are two ways: through the privatisation of banks where the founder or majority owner of states, i.e. social capital, and the same goes for insurance companies, or bankruptcy. What you can't or what would be too obvious or what would be too expensive for the privileged to do in privatisation, now you'll do it in bankruptcy. The political organisation itself says that the biggest abuses in privatisation were right in the privatisations carried out in bankruptcy. To remind ourselves of previous laws, bankruptcy of insurance companies and banks is run by the Agency. So, the Agency which is an extended arm of the government, and I agree, but in this case extended arm and one ministry, one political party and a few people. The Agency will work not in the interest of banks that are in bankruptcy and liquidation, not in the interest of insurance companies that would be in bankruptcy in this case, but exclusively in the interest of those two people and those close to them, and certain insurance companies and certain banks should be in the process of liquidation and bankruptcy to take over. If it were too obvious, simply to close them, simply to re-in this business space that they have through their various branches exploit or private insurance companies and private banks that are not close to those two people simply removed from the market. To eliminate excessive competition. At first, it's a little expensive, someone suffers some political damage, but later the benefits are huge. These are the reasons for all those previous discussions, which is why the National Assembly now has before it a bill on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and other financial organisations. It's just a matter of mechanism. That's what this law needs to regulate. The question arises as to why we need the Liquidation and Banks Act, when the entities of these liquidations are excluded from the law, only certain provisions of the Liquidation and Banks Act apply. This matter is regulated by a special law, and by a law where the work permit is taken away by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, and the Agency, members of the Management Board, director of the Agency, appoints, on a proposal from the competent minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, and the Agency runs the process of liquidation, bankruptcy and even privatisation. That is the essence of all of this, because wherever money is mentioned, wherever abuse is mentioned, it is somehow always where Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus are found.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16990	National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the laws proposing to amend the Bank's Bank's Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation laws, including the insurance companies' bankruptcy and liquidation. This is a trail of previous laws that unite control and procedure not only of work, but of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, by a party that controls the monetary and financial sphere in the current government in Serbia, the so-called democratic bloc. It is clear that the monetary and financial sphere is one of the most important areas for the functioning of the state, and in some ways defines the fate of citizens, legal persons and entities that exist in that country. We know that since 2000, G17 plus has controlled the monetary sphere through the National Bank of Serbia, earlier via the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and that now through the Ministry of Finance and through the National Bank, it controls all flows, both through the acquisition and taxation of citizens and legal entities, and in some ways it affects or plays a major role in spending funds, both through the budget of the Republic of Serbia and through the budgets of local self-government, because they are in some way defined by system laws. This agency, which was the subject of the deposit insurance law, existed before, was the Agency for the recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. The agency was managed by a group of G17, as the chairman of the agency's council was Labus and, by order or programme made in the West, liquidated four of the largest banks in Serbia overnight. What happened to Serbia's financial market almost four years after those banks were liquidated? By liquidating the four banks, Serbia received many so-called so-called banks. private banks, and some foreign banks. However, all that G17 points out, that the reform of the banking system in Serbia has been done best in the whole environment, is only a trick, because all these banks that have been founded, both domestically and foreignly, have not contributed to a better standard of citizens, nor have the conditions of credit use been improved without talking about savings. The story of a billion and 700m euros or the dollar of saving citizens is groundless and has no basis. If it's that much savings, where do you place the funds from the business banks? Does the National Bank, does the Ministry of Finance have any indication of how much the funds these banks place in Serbia's economy and how much they place it to citizens? Unfortunately, I do not believe that these large funds, on the contrary, are the funds that are collected from citizens on various grounds that are exceedingly derived from Serbia, either through payment deficits, or in other illegal ways. The bankruptcy that began in January 2002 over these four large banks is only a major robbery, both the deposits of these banks, such huge moving assets that have been acquired, torn apart, and the finale of all is that the flow of time does its part and that a huge business space is hijacked in the most exclusive centres, both in Belgrade and across Serbia. The bankruptcy was not led either by the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Bank Bank Banks, nor by the Commercial Court in Belgrade to collect claims from the four large banks, so we have many examples that the debtors ′′Jugobanke′′, ′′Beobanke′′, ′′Investbanke′′ are not forced to pay what they owed these banks. And these now appear as customers in the privatisation process, and customers also appear in the process of selling immovable property through bankruptcy proceedings or the collection of claims through regular courts, i.e. through municipal courts. There is one example in the King that one debtor, who has a claimable right, according to the Implementing Procedure Act, on the immovable property of 3.5 million then-marks The Trade Court with the Bank's Banking Agency did not collect that claim, but he bought in the center of the Royal Commercial Area 500 square squares, with land, at the nearest center of the city, for 15.5 million through public sales carried out by the Municipal Court in the Kingdom. Who did he buy it from? He bought for a claim held by the Vojvodjanska Banka towards the Kraljevo Refrigerator for 15.5 million, and the Kraljevo Refrigerator was sold at auction. The members of the Privatisation Committee know well how the Kraljevo Refrigerator was sold at the auction, how the majority owner acted on the workers of the Kraljevo Refrigerator and how he severely violated all the provisions of the purchase contract. When all this is seen and connected, it is seen that it is an organised crime that extends from the Trade Court in Belgrade, the Privatisation Agency, the auction, the Vojvodjanska Banka, the Royal Municipality court that sells and the one that does not return the 3.5 million marks then. Another example, even more drastic: Bank workers who were pushed into bankruptcy did not receive remuneration for their personal income for December 2001. A lot of people went to get the so-called. The bank rehabilitation programme, which was conducted by Labus with the Bank Rehabilitation and Bank Bank Banks Agency, which was a fraud or fraud, from June to December; was an obvious intention to push banks into bankruptcy. And for so many years, besides the sale of total immovable property, it is a large property in furniture, equipment, motor vehicles, and even artistic paintings and valuables in the central banks of these banks, but it is not known where all this was found and what these funds were spent on, workers in three and a half years did not receive compensation, nor has there been a priority at the Trade Court in Belgrade to receive compensation for December, those 8,500 workers, and those who went into retirement did not receive 3.5 years or compensation. This is the essence of how the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Banks Banks led and how it conducts bankruptcy proceedings for these four banks, and nothing better will work than this deposit insurance agency, because it will be the same agency that will be composed of the G17 people. They will in the same way find legal opportunities for banks that are not willing to take them into bankruptcy, while banks they believe should remain on the financial market for Serbia, to have as little competition as possible, continue working in this way without more control. As a member of the Finance Committee, I know the Committee's agenda for a year and a half has never come up with a report from the National Bank on the control of business banks. This clearly states that the National Bank does not exercise fundamental control over business banks. But as things are going on now, it seems that two parties in Serbia around these two banks that mean something else as domestic banks have shared interests, as they have shared interests in insurance companies with this law on insurance companies and control who will do the work of insurance companies. There are clear interests: so, one bank to one foreigner, and another bank to another foreigner, and this is about Vojvodjanska Banka and the Commercial Bank, as is the case with these two large insurance companies – "Dunav" and "Novi Sad". The bill literally puts everything under the hands of a party that no longer has support in Serbia's electoral body, or among Serbian citizens. Realising that, they are doing all this and proposing to grab under their control what they can use until the first election that will inevitably follow in the fall. Citizens will not fall for what they did and the pranks they made in 2000, that they will pull Serbia out so-called. Experts, because they are not experts, are the contractors of the Western intelligence programme, the achievement of the interests of these services, the direct implementation of the IMF and the World Bank programmes. Any state that has accepted the implementation of the IMF and World Bank programme has come into debt slavery. Argentina, Indonesia, and many countries in the world have experienced it. If it were a good IMF programme, and you are calling if necessary for Slovenia's experience, Slovenia would accept the IMF programme, so it would shut down all its banks, including the Ljubljanska Banka. They were much smarter and had better leadership than Serbia has, unfortunately, had since 2000, because Slovenia has not shut down the Ljubljanska Banka as it has not privatised large enterprises in Slovenia. The companies have become state-owned enterprises, but therefore the Slovenian economy has found an open border towards Serbia and a large market, which is enough for the entire economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16992	Thank you. Replica, MP Miloljub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16993	Please don't throw it away. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if you had read the document recently published, which is a positive assessment of the feasibility study, you would have seen that the reforms in the banking system are best done. Bank savings today amount to a billion and 500m euros. You've never been saved before. Today, there are 42 banks in Serbia, eight of which are foreign. More people in the banking system are employed than before the bankruptcy of four major banks. Very often, instead of talking about the agenda, the Bank starts a whole salva and one pointless story, and you know well that the debt in those four banks was eight billion marks and that it took 18 months for all of Serbia and all of Serbia's employees to pay back those debts. I remind you that foreign exchange reserves in Serbia today amount to $5 billion, and I ask you how long they were before. I remind you that external debt in Serbia is now nine billion euros, that a large debt has been written off to the Paris and London Club, that the country has first acquired a B plus credit rating, and now, at this point, an even better BB credit rating minus. She didn't have one before. It is an indisputable fact, such as the indisputable fact that someone has taken foreign currency savings from Serbian citizens. Today, the state returns the old foreign savings. I remind you of the fact that someone had previously taken credit for the rebirth of Serbia, and there was no rebirth, and today the state is returning the loan for the rebirth of Serbia. When we look at what it was like yesterday, and what it looks like today, it is very clear that the state of Serbia is serious and responsible for its citizens. It can't all come back at once, everything that's wrongly done in the previous period can't be fixed, but the image of a country worth investing in is created. This image not only in the domestic but also in the world public and a whole series of things that I said earlier, such as the Performance Study, the abolition of American sanctions, the agreement with the IMF, co-operation with the whole world, say that reforms are going in the right direction and that the state of Serbia needs to round up its system, arrange it so that one day we can be in the family of European countries, which is similar to us and is where we really belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16994	Comrade Four, please, one moment, my colleague. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljko Četrovic, please call only a member. Now, colleague Albianic. Please call on a member of the Rules of Procedure for which you are looking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16995	Article 100, I guess it's 104 now. Here, as a People's MP and as a man, I speak on the basis of facts. I worked 24 years in the South Korean King. I knew the situation well about ′′Jugobanka′′, and I knew the situation of these three large banks in Serbia through the system ′′Jugobanke. It is not true that the debt of these banks was 8.5 billion, as MP Albianic said here; I do not know whether it counts in dollars, stamps, dinars, in lirams, probably. Unfortunately, these banks had large claims, both for the economy and for the state of Serbia, in some way. But keep waving that old foreign exchange savings and blaming banks for old foreign savings – old foreign savings or part of that savings was invested in Serbia's economy, infrastructure and large facilities in Serbia. I'll only tell you one thing: The "save center" was partly built out of the funds of that foreign savings. This wrong name – old foreign currency savings was placed consciously and deliberately in 1990 or 1991. I have to ask the next question. The head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group discusses successful negotiations and debt write-offs in Paris and London. I once or twice asked here why the negotiators Labus and Djelic accepted the conversion of debt into euro, when most of the debt was in dollars and in other world currencies? On this basis, the state of Serbia and the Serbian people are additionally burdened with $3 billion, as the exchange rate difference between dollars and euros at the moment they reached an agreement to this day is over 30-35%, therefore, of the euro's growth relative to the dollar. That's an extra three billion dollars. So it's not true that the debt was written off. The West didn't write us off a single dollar. In fact, they've only equalized that alleged write-off with the difference in value in these three and a half years. Second question, if you mention banks, where are the funds? Where are these banks' deposited foreign currency? Where are the South Bank funds from New York -- $120 million? Where are the funds of banks in Moscow, which are then held by Dinkic, Janjusevic and Kolesar and set up the National Savings Bank? Where are the funds of the Yugoslav-English Bank in London? These are the questions that G17 Plus, Labus and Dinkic have to answer one day, to settle their accounts. These are issues, in addition to questions about the funds found in Cyprus. Why did you shut up about Cyprus? Why are you trying to throw fog in the eyes of Serbian citizens in some TV duels, articles, books written by your coalition partners, to talk about the success of these banks? On what terms do these banks lend loans? (President: Time.) ) These are the most expensive loans in Europe. Who can be in charge? These banks have the most luxurious business spaces. How do they do business? It looks like they're mob banks. They're doing a lot of work. I worked at the bank, and I know what it means to provide funds for the bank's expenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16996	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16997	Ladies and gentlemen, he's not scared, but there are a lot of people in G17 who can answer your remarks. This is one of those examples, and there are a lot of MPs left. Therefore, we are ready for each and every one of us to respond. Of course, the replica is to expose the gentleman who mentioned G17 plus for the thousandth time. It happened yesterday, it happens today. I fully understand the need to speak from this pay phone on behalf of the party and to hold political speeches, especially if the party has problems in its own ranks and has to close the ranks a little bit. But G17 plus is not such a party and G17 plus will tell you one more time: gentlemen, enough with the thesis replacement. Where are the money from Cyprus, it's a real question for Serbian citizens, an excellent question. Gentlemen, where's the money from Cyprus? That's not a question for G17 plus, because at the time the money was transferred to Cyprus, G17 plus was not in power. Members of G17 plus, including all MPs sitting here, were then citizens of Serbia, those citizens whose pockets are exactly that money and taken. The G17 Plus leaders you're talking about back then were an assistant and professor at the Faculty of Economics. They didn't do big business. The real question – where are the money that went to Cyprus – should be set to large businessmen in Serbia, who certainly do not stand behind the G17 Plus party. Ask Karic, ask Dracula, ask others who have become rich at the time of your authority. Who allowed them to, and why, what were the interests of the political parties that were then in power, that is the real question for the citizens. That is what you should give the answer to, not us, ladies and gentlemen, who were then ordinary citizens in Serbia. Don't change the thesis anymore, and don't ask where the money from Cyprus is from Mladjan Dinkic, who tried to trace those money, but unfortunately because of the lagging structures, he couldn't do it. That's the facts. Don't ever talk about thieves being honest at that time living off their work. This mention of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, whom I first heard from you, as well as the the thesis that they are someone's godmothers – I can also say that they are the godmothers of one of you, since it is as true as being the godfathers of someone from G17 plus. So behind G17 plus there's no big capital. Also, one big substitute the thesis is that G17 plus controls money flows in the country. G17 plus is a responsible party that takes responsibility here where he works. We stand for personal responsibility, completely. So we are prepared to bear responsibility for what we have taken responsibility for and we will not give up on it. To talk about that there are huge interests, to talk about it, even someone has used the term "organized crime", please don't give such a flat-rate assessment, because that's how you show all the depth of your indifference and superficiality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16998	One notice: today, July 5, 2005 at 14.00 p.m., on the fourth floor, session of the Transport and Communications Committee. National MP Rodoljub Gačević submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u16999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to delete the Government and the Finance Committee has been rejected, with the reason that no adequate explanation has been given for the motion to delete this member. Therefore, I would like to explain by the following: the mandatory liquidation of banks is made on the NBS proposal, i.e. when the NBS withdraws the work permit. If this is with the consent of the NBS, it is a voluntary liquidation, and if, during the voluntary liquidation process itself, there is a threat to trustees, then access to forced liquidation. All these arguments and interpretations that suggest how forced liquidation is done, how voluntary liquidation is carried out, etc., it is a mistrust and inconsistencies and a series of inconsistencies, and the citizens have faced these problems in the process of liquidating banks and privatising banks as well as those truths. They have lost their trust, and for this reason we feel that this member should be deleted. In addition, creditors, as lenders, have secured themselves through various guarantees, mortgages, etc. Who didn't make sure? The credit user, first of all the citizen, companies, those who are forced by post-poo, for the sake of the process of production, for some personal and broad consumption, etc. to take credit under very unfavourable conditions. Later they will face a series of difficulties, just in those cases that have been in practice so far, they will be according to that people's saying, because they consider some – let me take a post-poo loan, there's nothing to lose anyway, "it doesn't undress" etc. It will quickly be understood and noticed that this is not the case, because after undressing to the naked skin, skin strips, that is, what they would say in the people – shouting. Whoever once took these loans under these conditions must never have taken credit again. There are reasons why there was a huge mistrust of citizens in all these types of savings, precisely because of this kind of liquidation and this kind of privatisation. As well as saving, trustees are also not secure or protected, nor trust banks, so more and more citizens commit, because it is much safer for them to do savings, as popularly said in the people, in the straws, because there is a huge proportion between the interest they have in terms of the lender, or saving.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17000	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17001	You see, when hatred dominates someone who is in a position to exercise power, then we have this situation to change regulations, a relatively good regulation is changed, called the Bank's Bank's Bank's Banking and Liquidation Act. The rule dates back to 1989. It's been changed more than once as a federal regulation. Some remarks could be made when it comes to the application of the law, since the function of the bankruptcy manager and the liquidator is performed by the agency, the federal agency. Now, as there was a need for insurance companies to be placed in almost identical treatment as well as banks, as there was a need to change the status of the agency in terms of mandatory membership by Dinkic and G17 plus, control and expansion of these powers and the privatisation process etc., there was a need in this idea G17 plus to adopt a brand new law on bank bankruptcy and liquidation, and now the insurance companies are added. I would only direct your attention to something that makes the continent, and that is also an appropriate amendment to the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, and it concerns, above all, Article 57j, where you add new points 10) and 11) and now with this Article 3. does one continent anyway. Article 3 should regulate the conditions under which the liquidation procedure is opened over the bank and the insurance company. Now, the logic applied by Mladjan Dinkic is – if the bank and financial organisation in their business demonstrates an indifference that lasts for more than 15 days uninterrupted or the bank's obligations are far greater than its assets, then the bankruptcy procedure is necessarily opened. In all other cases, I purposely say in all other cases the will of the National Bank of Jelasic is to be executed because work permits are previously withdrawn. This is what you have beautifully distinguished in Article 3 – liquidation, so you said voluntary when I'm a subject asking to be liquidated, because by some logic things for liquidation have disappeared natural, technical and economic conditions for his further business, so he resorts to liquidation for the simple reason that there are no unmistakable obligations to the creditors. In the event that the idea goes into liquidation, so that there are obligations, that the property cannot satisfy the obligation, then it goes to the bankruptcy and proportionate settlement of the claims of all creditors of the entities in the bankruptcy process. But what's dangerous here is that everything is practically in the hands of one man. Why has this change been made? I purposely refer to the law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, because those procedures that have been led against our banks, and these bankruptcy and liquidation procedures have not yet been completed, only the working-law status of some employees, but the property issue, the obligation has not been resolved, and we have repeatedly potentiated these funds from Cyprus. It's not the thief who took them, it's the thief who's holding them. Whoever took it can be an accomplice to whoever's holding those funds. To know who the thief is, he should also have power over what was taken. Whoever knows where these funds are, who managed to get through one law firm, now that man is President of Cyprus, makes a deal with Americans and the English to transform those funds, to send them to those exotic islands, these are the funds that enter the privatisation process. You can charge whoever you want. Velimir Ilic accused Dinkic, Vladan Batic accused Dinkic, the State Security Bogic has accused Dinkic, and I do not order you because I am very well informed, unlike others. These assets exist, they orbit somewhere, they, like, appear here in different forms of appearance. Now, it is important here for Mr Dinkic and Jelasic to build in the law mechanisms that they can create their own locks on whether they will go bankrupt, winding up, to preserve their initial idea of someone disappearing. The first idea was to disappear Astra Banka, and here you owe us, you know, there are some of our party assets blocked and I threatened to sue him, and I'm going to sue Dinkic, because he's guilty of those 300,000 dinars that have been blocked since 2001. (Nikola Novakovic, from the scene: and you can't? No, the court's decisions were annulled and when the solutions were annulled (you would probably have to know that as a lawyer) then it returned to its previous state. It doesn't return to the previous state when it comes to G17 plus. (Nikola Novakovic, from the scene: We are going forward. Just go ahead. If you read what's written in Article 3 and what's written in Article 57 of the Banks and Financial Organizations Act, then any bank can count on it to lose its work permit. I'm going to give you the reasons why the National Bank, the governor of the National Bank, can come up with a solution that takes away the work permit. It says – if it finds that the work permit is given on the basis of untrue data from the founder. You can always say that. "The bank does not apply for registration in the court register within the prescribed time limit. Within 60 days of the date of entry into the court register, the bank shall not start its operations, it shall be determined that the monetary amount of the founding capital of the bank is less than that prescribed by this law." That's what you determined at this Israeli bank, so the court annulled you. The court in the administrative dispute has annulled you. The audit houses have proven to you that this is not true, but in that previous law you have prescribed that you will determine which audit house is authorized to give an opinion. You go on – to determine that the number of founders is smaller than the law prescribed. And that's where you experienced the debacle. In your solution, you found that there were fewer founders. The man has proved that there is a legally prescribed number of founders with a minimum monetary amount of the founding role. And you don't care about that. You go ahead, says – the bank does not comply with the NBS' order from Article 57d of this law. That was the Astra Bank situation. You gave a binding order to remove any irregularities, and you did not enter the bank balance sheets and determine the structure of the capital, but you went with the flossules – invested funds to buy houses etc. I don't care what he invested in. He normally served all his obligations, but he had to be shut down, because there was a conversion of dinars into stamps, stamps into euro, because there was only someone there to take over 100m euros, and you don't want that man to take 100m euros, but yours to take 100m euros and to take over your exchanges and through other opera dirty money from abroad. Now you're saying you can get any license, go into liquidation immediately, no matter what the balance. That's what you want. It's this corrupt intention that you're going into this session with, that you massacre everything, that you just put under your control, because it's a guarantee of legality. It's a guarantee of crime, I'm telling you. Furthermore, point 8) says – forced administrators or NBS before the deadline set out in Article 57d of the assessment that an emergency bank administration cannot lead to the elimination of irregularities. Well, you used that on some banks. You could have used it at the Vojvodjanska Banka, but you didn't. You could have gone to other banks, and you didn't, but that's why it's good for you to take pictures in the property transformation of a bank. The cream on the cake is the new position you are introducing in this special law, it says: "The day of the decision to withdraw the license to work, the National Bank of Serbia will block all accounts of the bank, thus setting out a ban on the bank's assets until the competent court's decision to initiate bankruptcy proceedings is reached." Why did you not tie this to the finality, or the rightfulness of the decision to withdraw the permit? Why didn't you do it? However, today you make a decision to withdraw your license, it immediately became final and immediately became executive. The next day, the governor makes a decision to open, liquidate or bankruptcy proceedings, delivers to the competent court, the competent court must immediately open, block the account, almost, the end of the story. For what? Because maybe someone in a bank didn't act on the crazy warrant of that group of your 2001 inspectors who shut down these biggest four banks of ours. We won't let you do that. We will not allow you to carry out your will. If we can't get 126 votes to block you, then from this pay phone we're going to notify the public, the economic operators, the political structure, we're going to let everyone know what's behind this prank G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17002	The replica was reported by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17003	Based on the mention of G17 plus at least five times in the presentation, as deputy head of the parliamentary group in the absence of the boss, therefore, with full right, sir, meet the Rules of Procedure. So, replica to previous exposure. Why? Because it was very interesting. Why? Because we heard an interesting thesis, a few new information and a couple of false, of course, accusations. The interesting thing is that one lawyer, many say is very good at his job, says that a thief is not the one who stole the money. Very interesting. Would it be good if the Serbian citizens heard it wasn't the thief who stole the money? Since it's not the thief who took the money from the citizens of Serbia and took it somewhere, it's the thief who tried to find that money. It's the thesis that keeps repeating here, but now it may be the first time explicitly spoken to me, and I have to admit, it's very interesting. Second, we heard some more interesting information. First, to put certain MPs and parliamentary groups in defense of Bogoljub Karic and Astra Banka, which apparently had numerous malversions in its business, as has been proven. In addition, Mr. Karic is well-known for pouring funds into his accounts at the time of Serbia's largest poverty, and not only Serbian citizens, but also Serbia as countries. So, at a time when Serbia's budget was completely destroyed, when Serbia's economy was completely destroyed, when the foreign exchange reserves of Serbia were completely destroyed, some people in this country became enormously rich. Among them is Mr. Karic. I find it interesting, of course, to hear for the first time now that a parliamentary group is openly placed in its protection, which is interesting, given that they have had some conflicts of interest over the MPs. Besides, I'm interested in information, it's clearly said here, it seems to me, the stenogram will show that the radical party had some money in Astra Bank, probably during the 1990s, which I already mentioned. So that's really interesting information for the citizens of Serbia, I just needed to underline them. Third thing, is Mladjan Dinkic, does the G17 plus control money flows in this country? It controls money flows in this country, because money can no longer go to accounts outside the country, but money stays in the country. The budget is stable, as you have had the opportunity to hear, foreign reserves have grown significantly, the state is stable, citizens are still not living well, but they have the security to live in a legal and economically stable state. We control the money, we control the money flows. It's our duty in this country. The finance minister has to control the money, it's his job. If he wants to do it well, he will continue to make sure that the citizens' money ends up in the right place, in their pockets and in their budgets, of course, which is their common place. How else would you gentlemen charge the budget? Yesterday you were talking about it... (President: Time, colleague. I'll be done right away. Yesterday you spoke of dragging your hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens and filling the budget. How else would you charge a budget than tax? Yeah, we got another way, that's the money printing thing, that's the only way we've forgotten it, and don't remind us of it at all. So money control must exist in this country and the G17 plus will still stand for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17004	Thank you. To read one note: the eighty-fourth session of the Legislative Committee will be held today at 13.20 p.m. in a small hall in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building. So, I ask the members of the Legislative Committee to go to a small hall. Mr Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17005	Of course, what I was planning, that's what happened. Thief, it's a term used in jargon and politics, and it's right not used. Don't go after that stuff. For your knowledge, thieves are divided into large and small, depending on how much money was in the safe. It's just that difference. If there was a lot of money in the safe, so he took it, he's a big thief. But the one who came, so he found the little money, he's a little thief, but there's no principle difference. Since you didn't understand the difference between who illegally took away other people's property, it's a crime, and something we're talking about in the jargon -- a thief, to explain to you: someone may have taken and taken away, hidden, we don't know by whose order, but we don't even know who actually exercised power over those assets and whose property they are, who keeps it in the portfolio. But now we know, based on the reports of Velimir Ilic, Bogovnik, Zivadinović, that of your Lalic, I don't know if I should be directing further, Americans, English, Cyprus, etc. etc. and special books on the recognition of Mladjan Dinkic -- four billion dollars were missing; it disappeared in time when Dinkic asked for it. That's the problem. You have that problem. Second of all, about some Astra Bank business, you don't know anything. Every legal person had to have an open jury account in some bank and hold his funds there. It's that deposit. You had to know that. Someone picked this bank, someone like that, some third, some fifth, some left one, but when you hit out of the blue, that money stayed there. If you are making an insinuation that it is some illegal money, then come out and say well, we have evidence; but no one makes such insinuations, only you, as a great economic expert, remember it. Don't do that. You need to know how the banking system works. The legal person must have a giro-account in a bank somewhere. Now it's a current account, and I'm telling you about 2001 and 2002, Astra Banka. Secondly, you're talking about some friendly relationships. I don't know if you're reading the paper, whether you're watching TV, if you're listening to what's said about this pay phone. Who calls a man for salads, for chains, for this nonsense, for this pardon of the pig in front of the TV? What are you talking about? Mladjan Dinkic has made Karic a politician with a lush action to shut down Astra Banka. You made him a politician. All this "Mobtel" crap, all this other stuff. You're stalking him, you're saying he's a criminal, but you know what, when the government says he's a criminal, and she hasn't arrested him or initiated a trial, don't talk, please, because you're the government. You're confused, you'd be in power, and if you were in opposition media behaviour; it's not working, you're in power. If you are to arrest, arrest, if you have evidence, if you are pushing a procedure, push, prove, and do not act oppositionally as a government. You're all confused, you'll surely go into opposition, but extraparliamentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17006	Replica, MP of the people Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17007	Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there may be confusion around the term, but we in G17 plus are used to using professional terms as experts, not just in political phraseology. So, in that sense, it was my objection to that, to the use of the word "snaps." I know that this word is very easy to use here, but I wouldn't recommend that experts use professional terms for political phraseology, and that's just our attitude and we stick to it. Whenever we talk about it and in political speech we also use these professional terms, I can't say some folk term for something in my profession. I don't want to mention now what terms these can be. As far as Astra Banka is concerned, of course I understand that anyone can have a deposit in some bank. What I'm saying is that it's interesting to cry here over the fate of so-called domestic banks, social, state, Jugobank, these other banks, the four largest so-called banks, and that apparently deposits are held in some other banks, and that's all I wanted to say. Of course, it was a perfectly legitimate right for everyone to choose a bank, but to me it was just indicative and interesting that it was really Astra Banka. As for the enemy, I completely agree with you. The political attitude of the G17 plus is that those people who acquired large capital at the time of poverty are political enemies of the G17 plus, and we also talk about it all the time, so it doesn't bother you to call them godfathers. So, please, let's put things in place. None of them are best man G17 plus. The G17 plus had nothing to do with these people, nor did she keep the money in their banks and always made it clear to them politically. Simply, that's what the facts are. Everything else is insinuation. Insinuations can be political, on the one hand, and on the other hand, what we need to do from this pay phone is talk facts and that's what G17 plus stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17008	The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17009	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the environment in which we are... Yeah, you heard right, right, and if someone doesn't believe a look, because I'm a visual type – Vujaklia, page 34, left side, second pillar in the middle, so read it. So all of this often brings a man behind a pay phone into a situation to make a slip, or make a mistake or a lapus, and that happened to me yesterday, whether a man has a nervous system, whether he's a good speaker or a bad one. I'm not saying I'm a good speaker, I don't know if I'm nervous, it's what you see if I'm shaking, but I made a slip, so by mentioning the name of a notorious lady (and here I was corrected by my cousin) instead of the name Biljana, I mentioned an honorable name and apologized to all the Olivers that I may have embarrassed here yesterday, I hurt. Look, I was talking about the Serbs and I mentioned Oliver's name, so I want to fix that mistake this way. I apologize to all the ladies and Mrs Olivers. As for my date for this pay phone, of course, I have submitted an amendment to article 4 of this law. The first thing I would do is respond to one claim from a fellow party, and they call it encrypted; it says – our banking reforms are the best. It is true that they are the best, and it will be better for you to nominate those of the West, and give all that they seek, from where they will reap fruit. When that is gone, then it will be a people's one-off, a few friends gone, and you will lose support, and you will be left empty-handed. Of course, not all of them, those who have taken hold of each other, will go there to them. Second of all, I've also been in pain, and we've been underestimated in some way. The speaker said we had no idea, just like that, what the agency was, and then he took some paper himself and he read. Believe me, that's how I'm gonna come by and read it because I'm not an expert in that area. I know what the agency is, and I'll tell you what the people know, that's what I know and that's what I'll say. It's an institution for hiring co-workers, party members, and yet on the burden of the budget, again on the back of citizens. If that were true, I will quote again from this law, he says -- funds for implementing this law will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Imagine now how much the law is, and so is the agency, and then some kind of exposure -- it's an entire machine on the back of the Serbian citizens. There's something else from article 3. Whether it is possible to execute two ways of liquidation, she says – can be forced or voluntary. Give me an example of voluntary liquidation. You liquidated everything by force, even those who were profitable, who had huge money in reserve; and you were the first to take it, because there's profit, and here, where there's nothing you didn't have much fun at all. Here's to tell you that it's true, that you've given these banks to others to collect profits: go down this street, the first street on the left, whether it's called General Zdanova, it says something "Raifeisen", I don't understand anything, I thought I was in a foreign country, and all the names of the banks and some gorillas in front of them who guard those banks. One more thing I noticed was that the National Bank, which is attributed to it, is known who is doing it, here in Article 4 is in a great hurry and it is said: ′′The National Bank of Serbia will decide on the fulfilment of the conditions for the launch of the bankruptcy procedure no later than the next working day following the receipt of the proposal by the liquidator referred to in Article 2(2) of this Law. ′′ Imagine how urgent it is – the first day of work. This must be resolved, to break over the knee, as the people say, that the Vlachs do not remember. You gentlemen (don't think that this is demagogy, but I really see it that way), you want to deal with Europe at all costs, to accept everything that the European Union has ordered you to do, not to say no. You're saying that tolls must be collected, gas must be collected, because that's how it is in the West. What about those people who have low wages or who don't have any? How are we going to get them into Europe? We will slowly push them off the face of the earth, because they cannot be treated, they have nothing to live on, soon we will end, as I see, and pensions, we will not even welcome them, because you are extending the deadline and so the pension fund will disappear, because that is what the European Union has said. Therefore, gentlemen, it says here in an explanation that it is deleted. Erase this. When I was talking about the Labour Act I said – pull it, it's not good. Then you're laughing at me. When I spoke symbolically of the fish, the rope that should be cut, I say - cut the rope, release the fish, the fish is large, it will resist you, you withdraw the law. You don't want to, but it comes after the time when they withdraw, when you get back one law and another law, and maybe now this third one, because I'm telling you now, pull this law, it's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17010	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as regards the amendments submitted by the MP, Mr Tomislav Penezic, the whole law, and especially this member, not only should it be deleted for all these justified reasons Mr Penezic has said, but because in a legal sense, the adoption of such a law with such a member will be a precedent, so far unseen in our practice when it comes to the relationship between an institution that gives itself unlimited powers, i.e., as the National Bank of Serbia, under the Law on the National Bank and the Law on Banks. This strengthens the position of the National Bank of Serbia further, and thus the current governor Radovan Jelasic. The fate of all bankers in Serbia is not uncertain, but, as we say, the knife and cake are in the hands of a man who rules the National Bank of Serbia and controls all financial flows. Just as her colleague confirmed, in one presentation she said - no, we don't, and then after 20 minutes she straightened out and said what was really true. See what Article 4. It says – on the basis of the decision to withdraw the bank's work permit, i.e. the insurance business license, the National Bank of Serbia (so, that is, what Mr Penezic indicated) immediately provides a solution to the fulfilment of the conditions for the launch of the bankruptcy procedure. The second position says – The National Bank of Serbia will make a solution to the fulfillment (always read: Jelasic and Dinkic, this is the two when we say the National Bank) the conditions for launching the bankruptcy procedure at the latest on the next working day following the receipt of the proposal by the liquidator referred to in Article 2(2) of this law. That's what we're talking about when it comes to bankruptcy proceedings, that's Article 2. And, he says, what is truly a precedent – the solution to meeting the conditions for launching the bankruptcy process is finally. The decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings was carried out at the time of delivery to the competent court. Only in Article 5, which we will talk about later, is it said that an administrative dispute can be initiated before the court in charge. Where is this and where is this, that the authority that has imposed such a criminal act on you has actually told you that you are no longer there, that is to say Jelasic, Dinkic, Labus that the bank is gone, you cannot appeal against that solution? I have to remind you of your famous cries, of course unfounded, were the product of a political hickey on unsuspecting men and were not supported by any arguments at the time, I must remind you of what you were talking about when Mr. Vukic was Minister of Information and when he was then a valid Information Act. The media (and they are doing it today without any criminal provision, especially B92 who got involved in that bandit bike of Natasha Kandić) had a 24-hour deadline to announce the denials of each of you for the things that concerned your private life, first of all what you did not do; therefore, the media that defiled the families of certain people. And there's not a single minute here, but it says -- if the first day of work is on Sunday, Monday, a solution is made, it's certified by the governor, there's no one else to complain about. That's final, so go ahead and start a dispute in front of the court. In front of what courts? In front of courts where individual leaders of these judicial institutions are placed in DOS time, people who are not politically colored but also how they serve and are extremely connected to the financial lobby in this country. If you think of passing such a bill, as well as a proposal for a financial lease law, where unlimited powers are also given to the National Bank of Serbia, which should of course control the business of all those who have the ability to give a lising, then you want to bring Serbia to the lowest possible branches through such behaviour, which is expressed from the period when Dinkic fell into the National Bank of Yugoslavia, through its ministry and now such Jelasic's work, to really bring Serbia to the lowest possible branches, that one handful of people decide on everything, to play with the fates of employees and people who are committees of these banks, and that they assess when he has matured that condition, which gives them the possibility of Article 3 of this law, to execute forced liquidation. As counterpart Krasic said, if we are not there, and soon there will be 126 at least in the assembly benches, because Serbian radicals are so minimally needed that Serbia will turn to one better, normal direction of its development and that citizens will have any security, which they do not have at all now, including those in these banks, we must also speak to those people, because each is a sword over their heads, and to the citizens of Serbia that it does not go that way and cannot. Such legal provisions, apart from being a precedent in a legal sense, are indeed a great danger to Serbia's future and the possibility of a handful of people being enormously rich and taking in the right sense the word rackets from those they want to manage and the way they want to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17012	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17013	This amendment is a logical continuation of the previous amendment spoken of by colleagues. Indeed, Articles 4 and 5. The bill on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies provides for something that we lawyers would have to consider legally impossible. I am surprised that something like this could have passed the Legislative Committee, provided that the Legislative Committee had even considered this text of the bill. It is incomprehensible and incomprehensible to propose laws for which every lawyer at the beginning knows that they would get a negative assessment at the Constitutional Court, even if the Constitutional Court, if this proposal, or when adopted, would be found on the assessment of constitutionality and legality. In general, the proposal of this law, according to us Serbian radicals, was completely unnecessary, because the government called this law a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and we all know, unfortunately, that the banks for liquidation are no longer available. All Serbian banks, Mladjan Dinkic, even as governor, liquidated tens of thousands of people who worked in these banks without a job. They ran out of money the day-to-day when they were getting some money from the Employment Fund. Now these people have lost any monthly income, only because it was the will of Mladjan Dinkic, who instead of Serbian banks (and of course Miroljub Labus, because they are doing so in tandem), introduced into Serbia by various foreign banks that do well in Serbia and give citizens credits, very expensive loans. People in the situation where they're in, what they're going to do, they're going to have to take loans like that. These banks work well, instead of allowing it to the Serbian banks; no, Serbian banks are liquidated, and here we have various names, whose names we don't even know how to pronounce. So, the point is that the law was not to be passed because of the banks, but the law is passed (the Minister Dinkic told us why I said it this morning), this whole package of laws is being passed, as Dinkic himself admitted, because of the privatisation of the New Sad DDOR. Now, what role will be played by the chairman of the Management Board ′′Dunava′′, Miroljub Labus, who is known for being increasingly important committee president (and those who are liquid and have more resources) has suggested that all their jobs end at ′′Delta Insurance; what role will be Mrs Labus, who is also a significant name in ′′Dunav Insurance, will only be seen by the citizens of Serbia, it will only be seen by employees in the DDOR from Novi Sad. So it's amazing that you're putting us in a position to spend a few days here discussing a law that's only meant for one particular job at the beginning. We lawyers call it lex specialis, and we who consider ourselves and are confirmed as good lawyers know that lex specialis is the worst solution to regulate any area in society and life. Lex specialists are mostly contrary to the system laws, contrary to the Constitution, as is the case with this law we're talking about today. As regards Article 5, it is envisaged that an administrative dispute may be initiated against the NBS's decision to comply with the conditions for the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings, and previously, in Article 4 of this Act, it is stated that there is no factual administrative procedure in this case. It says here it's about meeting the conditions for launching bankruptcy proceedings. If there is no body that would pre-trially resolve a complaint or objection to the decision of the National Bank and a solution, then we are in a situation that we do not have a second-degree body in a regular administrative procedure. We have only a administrative dispute, regardless of what the administrative dispute is limited to 60 days in which it should be settled legally. We all know that's impossible. Maybe in the first degree eventually it can be solved in 60 days, and the decision becomes a forceful one, everyone here and everyone who looks at us today knows it's impossible. It is not good for us to interfere with these laws, so to speak, in the work of the courts, or in the Law of Courts. It would be better and it would only be good if the members of the government accidentally co-ordinated their work, so then we get proposals from the government where one matter is solved in a unique and comprehensive way, not that we have one deadline in one law, and other deadlines in another law. The worst in this case, it will eventually get someone and that verdict and then Mladjan Dinkic, of which we are used to, will go on TV and say that he is not interested in court decisions. You all know that he's had such a standoff, something that's amazing, outrageous and unseen, that he's not interested in decisions of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, and we didn't create conditions here through this law that at least someone, if there's anyone in this country who can influence Mladjan Dinkic, although it seems that there is no such thing, exists as his second-degree organ. Of course, I know who the governor of the National Bank is, but I also know that Jelasic, Dinkic and Labus are absolutely with the same goal, with the same task as Moma said, thieves And it just happens to be the one on this job right now, and the one on the one, and they're basically doing the same job, and they're basically here to destroy everything that can be destroyed. [[delivered from the bench, well]] You, colleagues who will vote in favour of this law, make it possible to mutilate criminal acts, some that have already been completed and some that have already been announced. That's why we're calling on you to prevent further destruction and some of the banks that are left and insurance companies, because the government won't withdraw these laws, accept amendments to the SRS, and our amendments are such that each member is deleted individually, because this is our relationship with this law. It is a way that, by adopting our amendments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia says: Mr Ministers, the Assembly is not in office of the Government, it is the other way around, you have to listen to the Assembly. Unfortunately, during this extraordinary session, we have seen how much the Assembly and the assembly majority, unfortunately, are in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia: and they give us a 45-point agenda, and then it occurs to them that one point at a time they are pulling out of the known reasons or because they are in a hurry to take a vacation. We're wasting our time here by passing some laws that aren't passed anywhere in Europe. Your story is that everything we adopt here works by some directives; we who have a different opinion know and what the directives are, we know what the EU predicts, and we know that what you offer Serbian citizens is just robbing Serbian citizens, destroying employees, destroying insurance companies, destroying little banks that are left. Nobody in Europe does that to their banks and their insurance companies. Why do you listen to what no one even orders you to do, it is your problem and you will have to explain it to the citizens whose head hair rises from your laws, because every day, by applying one of these laws, tens of thousands of Serbian citizens are left without bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17014	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17015	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 5 refers to a solution that the NBS makes to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against a bank and some insurance company or any other financial organisation. First, Article 4 in the last position states: "The solution to meeting the conditions for launching the bankruptcy process is finally. The decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings is enforceable at the time of delivery to the competent court." So, shareholders, majority owners don't have the right to appeal in the administrative dispute. The only thing they can do and what's left is try to do it through a court of law. The matter is regulated by Article 5, which says: "NBS' solution to meeting the conditions for the launch of bankruptcy can be triggered by administrative dispute. The competent court shall take the decision in the dispute initiated in the light of the position of the Member within 60 days of the date of receipt of the action. "Now the question is whether the deadline could have been shorter, given that trade courts often and much more effectively resolve certain disputes. There's a question of why it's exactly 60 days. So, the NBS can take away a bank's work permit, can set up its bankruptcy manager through the agency, start the bankruptcy and liquidation procedure, already do damage to the bank, and within 60 days it has to react to a trade court. What happens next if the trade court rejects the NBS solution, or cancel it? We've already seen several times that the NBS simply didn't respect the decisions of the competent courts. That was against the law so far. With this bill of law, some illegal acts should become completely legal and the NBS should have the right to interfere in business everywhere. We all agree here and everyone points out, and even the ruling majority, that the court should be independent in decision-making. Now let's see what that looks like in Article 5(3). The bill: "If the NBS solution has been annulled in the administrative dispute", means that the majority owner was right and that there is no basis for the initiation of the bankruptcy and liquidation procedure, "and in the re-trial of the NBS, a new solution on the fulfilment of the conditions for the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings", now the bank repeals the decision of the competent court, "the legal consequences of the bankruptcy proceedings arise on the date of the first advertising of the bankruptcy proceedings on the advertising board of the competent court". The competent court shall immediately respond to the application of the National Bank, as referred to in Article 4 which regulates this matter. If the court makes a decision that there is no basis for launching the bankruptcy proceedings, the NBS will make a new solution confirming its previous decision, as if there was never any annulment of the NBS decision by the competent court. How else can you call it, rather than meddling in the work of a judicial authority? I guess the court is an institution that has the last word when it comes to some administrative dispute, when it comes to anything in violation of the law. No matter what laws you've written, according to your standards, adapted them to your needs, adapted them to your illegal actions that have been done over the past four or five years, you are now trying to introduce through one law to a small door that you have the right to annul the solutions of the competent courts. We can't help but feel that this whole set of laws that was passed was brought to the benefit of a group of people who control all the financial flows in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17016	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17017	Now I have a chance to continue my exposure just because of article 6. It means: "A decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure shall be delivered to the bank, i.e. to the insurance company, the deposit insurance agency, established by a special law, as well as to the competent court, which shall, at the latest, adopt a decision on the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against the bank, or the insurance company at the latest on the next working day following the date of receipt of this decision". Article 6 simply repeals Article 5 in paragraphs 1 and 2. Thus, the Court is obliged to adopt a decision to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, in this case against the bank or some insurance company. Then someone from that bank or an insurance company has the right to initiate an administrative dispute before that same court of law. The same competent court now has a certain freedom to assess whether the NBS solution is good or not, whether it is in accordance with the law or not, whether there are at all conditions for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings; conclude and make a decision that the NBS is wrong, that there are no conditions to launch bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings, that there are no violations of the law by the bank. Then the Agency, or the NBS, is waiting for us in the position of Article 5(3) and Article 6. So the competent court has to act immediately and in accordance with Article 5. The NBS is entitled, in a certain way, to a small door to annul the court's verdict. Now those who go out for this pay phone and defend the encrypted political party should wonder if they have any reason to defend anyone who tries to change judgments and judgments through legal proposals. Under the current constitution, there is a division of powers: there is a legislative authority, and that is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is executive authority and judicial authority, each for itself. Each has certain independence, except for the executive authority under the control of the National Assembly. But here everything is different, here the executive government controls the National Assembly through the assembly majority and MPs suffer humiliation from the executive authority. Now it's small, and now the executive power will also affect the work of the judicial authorities. It's not only affecting, it's changing solutions. That is the point, how do you think the set of these laws is someone's good will to be done in the interest of Serbian citizens. Rather, it would be said that the laws are passed, who is proposing them, as the sittings are called, gentlemen MPs, how we suffer humiliations from that same government, whether you support it or not, because we do not now have an authorised representative of the motionor, the minister in the government, who should defend this law, which should be said – your amendment is good or bad. We don't have it. It's the humiliation of the National Assembly again. That's the point. Then say that these laws, which you will vote on in the voting day and adopt as if they were in the interest of citizens, are in the interest of a small group of people who are completely controlling all financial flows in the state, not out of the desire to control these financial flows in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but in their own personal interest. All the political moves they had made so far and as they exercised power, they withdrew exclusively in their own personal interest, under the guise of doing so for the interests of Serbian citizens. You're talking about some big bank savings, and why don't you talk about how many more unemployed there are since October 5th? Why don't you tell us how much our foreign trade deficit is? Why don't you say that agriculture is destroyed, that the offerings are smaller, that you don't talk about? You're talking about how you're doing a successful bank reform, you've closed 29 banks, you've left a few, you've removed excessive competition. Now you plan to take over these few banks that are left and insurance companies that have some kind of property and what kind of business and income you take over, put under control and rob. It's nothing more than that. All these laws are pulling in that direction. There's no interest in citizens. It's exclusively the interest of two men who are pulling the full strings of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17018	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Take a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17019	One more good day. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17020	The honourable MPs, Article 7, as well as previous members of this bill, show the objectlessness of the lex specialis of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this article, paragraph 1 reads: "The bankruptcy proceedings are bankruptly higher, the bankruptcy manager and the trustee committee. "What does this attitude of the first member mean? Bankruptly greater – who educates a more bankrupt person, by which law is a bankruptcy procedure or an organ formed in bankruptcy? It's trade courts. Why is this law and this article to regulate that the organ of bankruptcy proceedings is bankruptly higher? The bankruptcy manager – the bankruptcy manager is the Deposit Insurance Agency. It used to be the Agency for the Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. The Committee of Trustees – the board of trustees are the trustees of the bank that is in bankruptcy. ′′The Agency functions as a bankruptcy manager in accordance with this law. ′′ As she played the role of the bankruptcy manager, an example of four of this large bank and 25 other banks that have been in bankruptcy for years, and no procedure has been completed by a first-degree verdict. When will it be? Once a business space is seized, it represents a great value throughout Serbia. These other values have been developed so far. How will this deposit insurance agency conduct bankruptcy proceedings? They will be led as ordered by the top of the financial lobby, which has already been ruling since 5 October 2000 in Serbia. There is no bank, nor has it had the security to operate in accordance with the Bank Act, there is no proper control of banks or the public of bank work, or even through the relevant committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How will the claims be settled? This law regulates the order of claims. Is there some order of settlement of claims under the current laws? I spoke earlier about the claims of workers, pensioners and other banks that have been in bankruptcy for years. There's no order, and there won't be a law like this. Banks in bankruptcy, as established by the Trade Court of Belgrade, under the leadership of the President of the Trade Court Kljajevic, will surely be robbed and seized by banks in bankruptcy, such as looting and devastated property of companies found in bankruptcy. An obvious example is many companies in bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings being conducted by this trade court, and the Belgrade Commercial Court covers half of Serbia's territory and jurisdiction, as well as the territory and number of economic operators, especially those found in bankruptcy. Workers of these companies who have gone or gone into bankruptcy know best what it is and when it will come to the minimum settlement of their claims, residual earnings and other labour rights. The workers of the King’s company who have been pushed into bankruptcy, and they also know how the property of "Strafte", "Cablara" and many other enterprises that have been pushed into bankruptcy are known to do so. These workers in a few years could not come to settle their minimum earnings, which were legally required to pay them off. It's been kidnapped by huge assets, both mobile and immobilized, and these so-called. Newly-compromised businessmen, successful people in all areas of governance in a few years have become those who now represent shadow power, both locally and at the Serbian state level. There is a streak of these shadow powers and those who are at government and republican level, especially at local level, because those who are powerful, who have money, the means, who have the ability to hire, fire, they also influence decision-making and local authorities, and have a significant impact on decision-making at the Serbian state level. We also see here, by proposing these laws that are on the agenda, even through explanations and quotes, without any hiding, influence or pressure from certain lobbys or powers, without speaking locally, it's obvious in every place, when making all decisions. Crime, which is in direct contact with power, whether at local or republican level, cannot be prevented in this way, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia does with its ministries, with all state bodies. It's not the ones who say the state can't stand up to crime. If the state is the right of the state, if it is the rule of law, if it has the institutions of the state, there is no organised crime, no organized mafia with which the state cannot be accounted and prevented. It is normal and logical that in all systems, all times there is crime, but the state is there to respond always by means of its own means and through amendments to legal regulations, and primarily through consistent application of legal regulations, because the aim of each law is to apply it. The aim of the law is not to pass and to represent only a dead letter on paper, but the law or provision of the law must be applied by all those who are obliged to apply it. Unfortunately, there is no law in the state of Serbia and that is why we have the state we have. That's why this is the state of play through all bankruptcy proceedings and robbery of the property of these entities, and workers are not able to achieve even the minimum of their rights. They, not by their own fault, lost their jobs and no profit, and they can't even get that minimum fee from the bankruptcy. That's the reality we're in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17021	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17022	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, in the light of the proposal for a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, among other things, in an analysis of the effects of the law, the Proposer wrote to us: ′′The justification of the new legal legislation in the field of bankruptcy and liquidation lies in the need for all segments related to the banking system and the insurance system, as a specific form of business whose stability is of public importance. Legal regulation has so far covered business, then supervision and control of their business, and in order to protect citizens, a deposit insurance fund is formed as well as a guarantee fund for insurance. ′′ In this part of the argument there are indeed several ambiguities to which a representative of the Government (that he is here by chance) should respond to the MPs and explain to us what is really very vague and unmistakably written here. However, a representative of the government, it is already a permanent practice of this parliament, neither here nor interested in what the MPs say. He comes in for ten minutes to read what's already written in the explanation, he doesn't tell us anything new, he doesn't want to hear us, and he doesn't want to possibly explain something further to us so that we might accept what he wrote or explain to him that he accepts it on behalf of the government. But it's the practice of this government, as well as the previous government, so we do what the job of the MPs is, and the government obviously doesn't do its job. He certainly does not work in relation to the National Assembly. So, if the justification for the adoption of this law is necessary, among other things, to regulate all segments related to the banking system, Minister Dinkic's question: how did he liquidate those Serbian banks he liquidated, the January when he did, and he remained in memory of all those who were employed in banks, and also those who did not, how could he liquidate four of the largest Serbian banks, if he had no legal regulations for it? Was that just his will being expressed? Furthermore, it says – for banks as a specific form of business, whose stability is of public importance. We know that it is the stability of banks of public importance, but again a question for the minister: why it has not only destabilised but has liquidated four of Serbia's largest banks, but of course the minister is not there, the government's representative is not there, so we will guess the answers ourselves, and the answers are those that all citizens in Serbia know. If we were to accept this law... And, of course, we of the SRS spoke in principle debate, and now in particular, that this law should not have been passed. We don't need lex specialis, we have those system laws under which all the jobs provided for in this law can be carried out, and we don't think there's any need to pass the law because of the privatisation of the DDOR, as Minister Dinkic here said. So, even if we thought that this law could be passed, then Article 7 would have no meaning and would not be necessary, because Article 7 says: ′′The bankruptcy proceedings are bankruptly larger, the bankruptcy manager and the trustee committee. The Agency shall act as insolvency administrator in accordance with this law. On a proposal from the Agency, the Agency shall choose the members of the Committee of Trustees, taking into account the size of their claims. ′′ First, the agency for this segment is not needed, because there is a Privatisation Agency, which we are also against, but it is established by law, we accept everything that is in accordance with the law, because we Serbian radicals are truly legalists, we can be against some law until it is passed, but when it is passed in this Parliament, it is for us a law that must be applied. Therefore, there is no need for a new agency. The question also for the minister (if he were here by chance) is: who's bankruptly bigger, who's the bankruptcy manager? Since he said this law was passed because of the New Sad DDOR, then it must have been, and then when he explained this to us, he knew who was bankruptly bigger, who was the bankruptcy manager and who was the one who was going to destroy the New Sad DDOR. The response, Minister Dinkic, owes this parliament. In the position of the 3rd member, it says – at the agency's proposal, the majority chooses the members of the trustees' committee, taking into account the size of their claims. The agency here is a completely excess mediator. The bankruptcy is that it should arrange, or choose, members of the board of trustees, to take care of the size of their claims. What will be the agency as an intermediary, except that someone in the agency will get money for it, except that someone in the agency will be an intermediary between the government and the bankruptcy council, except that in this way the government will influence the judiciary, except that in this way it will try to conceal everything that will be, and already today it is clear under this bill – will be illegal and criminal in the privatisation process of the DDOR. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group proposed that Article 7. The proposal of this law is deleted. Since it is not the minister here, as a representative of the Government, it is not worth speaking to him, I am speaking to you, dear colleagues, that in the day of voting – if anyone remembers more what the vote is about, because it has been 10 days since we discussed this law in principle, so thanks to the new Rules of Procedure, we are just discussing the amendments today – accept this amendment and that Article 7. The proposal of this law is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17023	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17024	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8 of the bill on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, with a proposal to delete the member. All are well-known to the Serbian Radical Party's views on the actions of incumbent Mladjan Dinkic, since he closed the largest domestic bank four years ago, driving them into bankruptcy. After that, other banks came in line to experience the same fate. However, he was not a minister at the time, but a governor of the NBJ, but, enjoying the support of the then DOS, he burned and burned in Serbia's banking and financial systems, and this is what the current government is doing today. Article 8 seeks to frame what it has provided for Article 5, which regulates the situation if the resolution of the National Bank of Serbia is annulled in the administrative dispute before the competent court. That bank or insurance company headed by the finance minister in advance was doomed. In addition to revoking a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on meeting the conditions for launching the bankruptcy procedure, the National Bank of Serbia is re-launching the procedure and making a decision to launch the bankruptcy. So, the finance minister absolutely gives no chance to institutions that come under the pressure of the National Bank of Serbia to prove they operate in accordance with the law. How long as the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic gave the banks four years ago to complain at least to the competent court? It's literally not a minute. He has installed so much maneuver space for the rest of the banks and insurance companies in this law as well. How does the National Bank of Serbia introduce bankruptcy? The liquidation manager referred a proposal to the National Bank of Serbia to launch bankruptcy proceedings against a bank or insurance company and the matter is over. Is that liquidator in control? Can he make a mistake? It doesn't seem to matter, as if it's about insignificant things. The introduction of bankruptcy into insurance companies has the same goal as by the bankruptcy of a large number of banks in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic freed a large market for foreign banks and banks owned by domestic financial tycoons. Thus, with insurance companies, an avalanche of all kinds of insurance agencies has started, agents with or without a license already possessing citizens across Serbia. Article 8 provides for the situation following the court's decision in the administrative dispute, and on the basis of a lawsuit against the resolution of the National Bank of Serbia. This is foreseen for those who want to oppose the finance minister and usually go straight out of bankruptcy into the liquidation of a bank, or insurance company. We all know that a lot of insurance companies, for example, vehicles only existed on paper, with rented business space and nothing else. The real accident was not experienced until they found out that there was nothing to pay for the damage, because there was no one to pay for it, nor did he have the money to repair the damage done to the third person. Now the opposite thing can happen. The arrival of new insurance companies, even on the side, introduction of new tariffs and taxis, and mandatory insurance of motor vehicles can become very expensive. Why am I saying this? Given that prices are slow to reach prices in the European Union, it is easy to assume that the same thing will happen with insurance prices. For example, the price of electricity in 2000 and the price of electricity today, in 2005, the price of oil derivatives in 2000 and the price of 2005, and yet to be found. The cost of college tuition in 2000, and what's the price today? Profits, however, did not follow this trend in price growth. So it looks like it will be with the insurance of motor vehicles, which is likely to be another blow to the existence of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party does not support such and similar laws aimed at breaking domestic institutions and shutting down businesses, and in this case it is banks and insurance companies and the unholy layoff of workers who can and know they are working. That is why, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that Article 8 be deleted. Proposal for a law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. After a general rehearsal four years ago, then strictening during the transition period between DOS 1 and DOS 2, Serbia-based bank shut-down minister Mladjan Dinkic, here, wants to perpetuate this bill. He just skipped the National Savings Bank. Honey and milk flow there, unfortunately not for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17025	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8, on which the amendment was submitted by the MP of the SRS, Mr Ilic, reads: "The legal consequences of the bankruptcy proceedings take place on the day of the announcement of the bankruptcy proceedings on the competent court's advertising board. "Even if this member is not deleted, he does not cover all the consequences resulting from the bankruptcy process: in addition to the legal consequences, and the financial consequences, the consequences of the creditors, the debtors and the state, the humanitarian consequences and, ultimately, the real consequences. The legal consequences of the bankruptcy in these four state banks were felt on the day of the bankruptcy proceedings. The legal consequences of introducing bankruptcy into these four banks and shutting down these four banks after the one who introduced bankruptcy into the four banks, after the governor then, and today Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic will feel two days after the next extraordinary parliamentary elections, and I hope it will be in early autumn this year. The financial consequences are double: the consequences of those who kept their assets at the banks, these four banks, and probably all the banks that Mr. Finance has blessed along with the governor to introduce; the financial consequences of the creditors from the bankruptcy, and this law will legalise them, and that's why I'm talking about those four banks, illegally shutting down those four banks. The financial consequences for creditors are likely to be such that they will not be able to complete their capital from that bankruptcy mass to get away. In these four banks, the financial consequences were that the state took over, wiped out the creditors' debts, or debtors' debts. Let's say, the former Iron Man Smederevo, today's "U.S." Steel′′, she owed a few billion ′′Beobanciâ. The state wiped it out for a few hundred million dollars, I can't remember exactly, sold ′′U.S. Thank you very much, because just ask how much it costs to build that high stove they let into work the other day and of which money it was built. Therefore, the state was severely damaged by shutting down these four banks. The humanitarian consequences for the employees, for those who had funds in those banks, and in one way or another, their assets were captured, they are amazing, and the real consequences were made clear the other day by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic when he said this law was passed because of the DDOR. This knowingly destroys the DDOR and will then destroy the DDOR probably sell to a friend. The real consequences will probably come quickly to ′′Dunav Insurance′′ and the real consequences will be that the remaining banks will, and if possible, in this first run-in to shut down insurance companies in Serbia, remain some insurance company and it will be cleaned up, because it needs to be left empty market, to form insurance companies, to form possibly another friendly bank and to suck up the total capital from here and out abroad or to fill someone's pockets. These pockets will certainly not be in the country, but will again be on the Virgin Islands, where the four and a half billion found in Cyprus, which Mihajlovic, found by Vladan Batic, who found the capital Velja Ilic, eventually found by Mladjan Dinkic. They all found them, they were there, and when Mladjan Dinkic came, he found them and they were gone. That is why I am asking the conscious part of the ruling coalition's MPs to put aside this amendment when it comes to voting day and in this way that this law, which legalises a single robbery of state property, is put out of effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17027	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Here you go, by the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a member of the 8th of this law, which, as the law itself, ceases lawlessness in this area, several solutions have been given. The promoter and all MPs who, respecting the citizens who elected them, sought to find the best solution for two and a half months tried and agreed on the text of the law and on all amendments. We are before us a proposal to delete Article 8, as so far have been suggested to delete all previous members and those others who are ahead of us, and the result of this effort is actually the result of laziness and the attempt to remain lawless in this area. At the same time, these amendments that have been before us for days, that all members of all the laws are being deleted, also means disrespect for this Parliament. I call on all members of parliament, all MPs who are against lawlessness and labourless at the expense of the citizens' money, to reject such pointless amendments in the day of voting with an abomination. I also remind citizens that for the last 50 years, the Republic of Serbia's first budget is in surplus and there is no printing of money. So much for that, so much for not working at the finance ministry, so much for the poor work of the finance minister. Please come to your senses a little bit, stop these senseless tirings of meaningless amendments; if it is from you, there is much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17029	Thank you. There wasn't any senseless tirads. Anyone else want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. You have three minutes on this amendment. What's the Rules of Procedure? You? No, Mr. Homan was talking about the amendment, as I understand it, but Mrs. Radeta is also talking about the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17030	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 8. I'm surprised, Mr. President, that you didn't respond to some of the expressions that my colleague used before me: an invitation to the MPs to reject amendments, writing and submitting the amendment was called "unhappiness." It is you who have brought a Rules of Procedure that does not bind the Members of Parliament, and indeed, I do not know what term to use, but at least unseriously that the MPs who voted for the Rules of Procedure by which only one MP can sit in this Chamber when discussing a bill of law. And everyone else at the expense of Serbian citizens can and should appear, walk through the Assembly, raise costs for that day and leave this hall. If the cameramen were here as they are not, it would be nice for them to walk this side where the parliamentary majority is sitting, so that the citizens of Serbia can see that what I say is true. Then someone dares to say that we who submit amendments are putting up with pointless amendments, spending money on Serbian citizens, wasting somebody's time. Dear colleagues, it won't be like that. We know what is the function of the Messenger of the people, what is the work of the Messenger of the people. We Serbian radicals are doing exactly what the citizens of Serbia are asking us to do. We are fully aware of that, unlike some others who happened to be in this room, for the first time, for the last time and never again. We Serbian radicals have been from the beginning and will, of course, be in a much larger number than we are today. Why we submitted the amendments in which we wrote: Article 1 is deleted, Article 2 is deleted, etc.? I was explaining it when I was talking about some amendment earlier, and now I'm going to do it again. The position of the SRS parliamentary group under this bill is that this and this law in this House should not and should not be passed. How else can we say and explain it rather than suggest that each member should be deleted individually? And if the minister were here by chance, we'd have asked him with reason, as we've already tried, to withdraw this law. He's not here, we have no one to say it to. Then we can influence the MPs or at least try to explain to you, explain to you why this law cannot be passed. The only way to really do that is to accept our amendments. We really think, and we'll explain it to the end, that none... (President:Time. )......................................................................................................... of these members should not exist, because this law should not exist. We therefore propose that each member be deleted individually and no matter what you have brought to the Rules of Procedure that one amendment can only be spoken of for 15 minutes, we from the Serbian Radical Party will use every 15 minutes of each amendment, no matter what you think. We are here to have the opinion of us brought by the citizens of Serbia, not you, your colleague, and your foreigner.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17031	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. You are absolutely right, Mrs Radeta, with only 65 votes against the vote of the new Rules of Procedure and you are absolutely right, now MPs are choosing whether to sit in the hall, to attend the debate, and which is part of their obligation, and thus contribute to the debate or to the obligations they have on boards to work to improve the law. It is absolutely right, please, Mr. Homan, for every MP to either make or work on the law by proposing to amend a member, to use his time at his disposal in relation to the Serbian citizens' budget, or to propose that the member be deleted. So it's the absolute right of every MP. It is also the right for the parliamentary group to propose with the same explanation, therefore, always with the same explanation. Of course, each parliamentary group chooses to judge it and each of you has equal rights. I just disagree, and for this reason I warn you not to ignore this right and not to prohibit you from MPs; as some MPs state about one law for 15 minutes your position, it is normal for other MPs to present their position on the amendment. The Rules of Procedure are explicit and says that each parliamentary group has the right to speak about a single amendment for 15 minutes. The law is the same for everyone, and I hope we stick to it in the future, and of course the citizens will be judged. Thank you very much. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law on the banking system, even redefines it, or regulates the banking market. Maybe that's why it's such a bile debate, because the banking system, the way it works, will depend entirely on some of our economic futures, will depend on the future of Serbia's economy. There is no reason not to understand Serbian Radical Party MPs. We are really truly struggling to get the government to come before us with a single strategy, with a report on where the banking system is going, the banking market in Serbia. Unfortunately, it is now fully left to the finance ministry, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. This is what creates the biggest dissatisfaction with the MPs of the SRS, and it seems to me to me to all Serbian citizens. The problem with Mr Dinkic is that he has poor communication with Serbian citizens, poor communication with this parliament. That's his problem, and it's not ours. Our problem is to explain everything we are unhappy with, the legal solutions that are ahead of us. As for these few laws relating to deposit insurance, bankruptcy and liquidation and amendments to the Bank Act, it is obvious that the banking market is being arranged and prepared for a more serious privatisation. The Serbian Radical Party certainly has no objection to foreign banks and foreign capital entering Serbia. It'll be good in that sense that we'll get a more rational and efficient banking system. That should mean for our economy that we have cheaper loans, that we have a bigger offer of credit. Of course none of us stand up to it. On the contrary, foreign investments are welcome. What's a big problem for us is that there's a lot more interest in foreign investors for banks, for successful firms, than there is for that real sector, for the mass of companies that go into privatisation and that it appears to be, possibly, just one customer, if there are customers at all. For several months now, we have been pointing out that the development of the banking market is going without a serious strategy, or at least we MPs of the SRS, and I'm sure the others are not aware of where it goes in the privatisation itself. We certainly need an answer to a few questions from Minister Dinkic or the Ministry of Finance, which is: what is the interest of Serbia, which is the interest of the Serbian economy; are we going to protect these changes of the law by bringing together more banks with the financial and economic sovereignty of Serbia; what part of the banking market will we leave to foreign investors and will there be a pooling of the domestic banking system? Are we going to be able to get a bank that's important at regional level? This is extremely important for Serbia, because if we fail to have domestic banks, we will be in a position to be just a colony or possibly a suburb of the EU. I believe that even those who represent such a sound thesis on Europe have the awareness that without domestic banking there is no support for domestic economy either. In the end, I want to say that the amendment I submitted to article 9 is in that context, in the same direction that my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party discussed. It is obvious that the agency referred to in Article 9, which is the agency for a few dozen hundred banks, which insurance companies, does not make any sense and that it is only an instrument through which Minister Mladjan Dinkic, unfortunately, intends to carry out his own will, which is why we decided, or I personally, to propose in this article that we delete the agency itself. It is absolutely certain that it is unnecessary, since it may be about one to two bankruptcys a year. So, one institution that is to achieve one man's policy, not the financial market and the economy of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17033	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17034	This amendment concerns Article 9 of the proposed law. This Article 9 reads: "The Agency is obliged to pay off secured deposits of natural persons, in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance". General norm, referring to a regulation called the Deposit Insurance Act. The link that exists between Article 9 of this other law, which is Article 16 which says: "The bankruptcy bank is obliged to provide the Agency with information on depositors and their deposits, according to its instructions, within 15 days of the date of adoption of the decision of the competent trade court on the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against the bank". It's in attitude one. If you look here, you can see that these two bill proposals were made at different locations and by different people. One bill was made in China, and the other one was made in Albania. Here, experts, let me explain this to you now, because you can't listen to this "tyrada". Take this law which is on the agenda – the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and see what is written in Article 4, and in particular in Article 6. Article 4 states that the National Bank is making a decision on meeting the conditions for launching a bankruptcy procedure, and Article 6 says that this solution is delivered to the Agency, etc., as well as to the competent court which is obliged to adopt a decision on the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure at the latest on the next working day following the date of receipt of this decision. In this second law, you do not know the solution to the bankruptcy proceedings, but to the decision to open the bankruptcy proceedings. Then go back to this law that's on the agenda, the previous member, which is Article 8. You wrote that the legal consequences of the bankruptcy proceedings take place on the date of the advertisement of the bankruptcy proceedings on the competent court’s advertising board. In this law, the competent court has been designated as a court of jurisdiction, and in this second law it is a trade court. Here's the solution to the launch, and here's the solution to the opening. The agency is a bankruptcy manager. The solution opening or launching the bankruptcy procedure determines who will be the bankruptcy manager. By law, this is the agency. In Article 16, you say - the bank will notify the agency within 15 days. I don't know where logic is. And legal and that simple logic doesn't exist. The two laws that are based, which could be coldly both texts in one law, are so different, and I am not surprised that after this law, there must be some interpretation of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court, which has become a model for the last two years, as any law is passed, a contradiction or collapsing is required to give some interpretation, as is the case with that Law on registration of economic operators, where the Supreme Court is asked to assist them in interpreting what is written in the law and what becomes an obligation of the Agency, and what is the obligation of the court to interpret which provision, because, in the end of the day, everything comes to court. How do we convince you that you don't know how to write the law, and the reason why you don't know how to write the law is exactly what I explained in the morning, which is the pathological desire to control everything and everything. You see, pathology does wonders. Pathology is a state of impaired consciousness and a impaired consciousness gives two texts of the law between which there should be something, and this thing between these two laws is Mladjan Dinkic. It was purposely done. It's impossible for someone to cheat on their grades. It is said here that the Agency is obliged to pay off secured deposits to natural persons, etc. In accordance with this law. In Article 16 of the Deposit Insurance Act, this makes sense to the whole, you here give a 15-day deadline for the bank to inform the agency that it has already entered the bank on the first day, because by opening a bankruptcy procedure, by launching a bankruptcy procedure, a kind of degradation of all the management bodies of the bank is taken over by the bankruptcy manager, by the deposit insurance agency, and you are now asking that the bank in bankruptcy informs its bankruptcy manager, and it is represented by the bankruptcy manager. I just can't figure out how someone could have imagined putting something like this into the norm. What is most dangerous in this organic unity between Article 9 and Article 16 is the fact that, before and under this applicable law, the agency as a bankruptcy manager has determined a business bank through which to pay off these deposits, what is guaranteed to citizens, and here you are adding that the agency will call a public tender that the bank's applications between which the agency is to choose a bank through which to pay off savings deposits and other bank funds in bankruptcy to citizens. I don't know, if you've had a fight with each other, don't make us vote for something mental health doesn't allow, probably a little bit of what I said, and you've seen that elemental logic doesn't allow this to be found in the bill. Whoever wrote this probably did some crime or is covering up the crimes that appear to be being organised by G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17035	Of course you didn't want to offend anyone. This is rhetorical. You didn't think anyone was committing a crime on behalf of a party, no you didn't. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform everyone that we're going to extend our working hours until the hearing is over in the details of the item that will be on the agenda at 1800 hours. You have one more minute on the same amendment. Did you want a minute to use it? Mr. Markovic according to the same amendment. Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that our new Rules of Procedure, the Democratic Rules of Procedure, time is limited, to take advantage of this one minute that we have left under this amendment and to say just a few words. Article 9 - The Agency is obliged to pay out secured deposits of natural persons, in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance. If Minister Mladjan Dinkic were there, I would ask him – and what if the deposit insurance law (that's the law we talked about yesterday) did not go through, and this law passed in the day of the vote? How will Article 9 of this Law be respected, how will Article 9 of this Law be fulfilled? What if there's not enough funds in the deposit? If he had been there, I would have asked him why the bankruptcy of ′′Beobanke′′ has been going on for four years and why this bankruptcy does not end, because the moment the bankruptcy would have ended, regardless of what they literally did, ′′Beobanka′′ would have enough resources to start working normally. If Minister Dinkic were there, I would ask him why he does not allow the work of ′′Beobanci′′, which in bankruptcy, when all debt-confidential relations are regulated, has enough resources to be one medium, even stronger bank in Serbia's banking market. That he is here, however, Minister Dinkic is gone, and I think I saw him this morning when I came to the Assembly, in a car with Keb going to a town to arrange a musical gig.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17037	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Zankov, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the creator of the new Rules of Procedure. He's turned his back on me right now, though he's talking in the bench, but no problem, he'll hear what Mr. Markovic hasn't learned from his own rules of procedure. Mr. Predraze Markovicu, said colleague Momir Markovic... To avoid confusion, I know, colleague Momira Markovic, that you know the Rules of Procedure well, unlike the president of the Assembly who proposed it and lobbyed most to bring it, but it's about article 85 and what the President of the Assembly just told you. Namely, he was not entitled to the Rules of Procedure, which now voluntarily interprets as he wishes, to inform all of us that we will continue our work after 18.00 hours per item of the agenda, which is then on the agenda. First, he's not a wizard here to watch what we're going to do after 1800 hours, which will be the point. He can't look at a glass ball or see things. He is only obliged to interpret the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure are clear, with the fact that I, as well as the entire public and MPs of the SRS, disagree with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, but if it is already written, and you have adopted on this side, then respect what you voted against, which we were against. He says the president of the National Assembly can decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there is a reasonable reason for it to be announced by the president to the MPs. No justified or unjust reason has told us, especially this justified one can't find, because these laws that are on the agenda are so disastrous that no one can justify it by the fact that it's necessary to adopt such a law. Then the next attitude says nicely, and this is what Predrag Markovic has not learned, that the president can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18.00 hours and only until the debate is completed in principle, i.e. the details of the starting point of the agenda. If we know what we started and what law we're at, then the President of the Assembly can't tell us – we'll do everything until the point that's at 6:00 on the agenda is over. If he's already decided, without a reasonable reason, because he can't find any reason to extend his work, then he should have said, if he wanted to, we'll be working until the discussion of the details of the point that is now on the agenda. That he's speculating and thinking about what point he's going to be, I'm speaking in principle, not just today, but any other day, he's not going to be able to do it, because if he's already brought this kind of rulebook, he's going to have to stick to it. Because it does not, but every day it causes some injury, I believe, Mr. Zankov, because you too are one of the supporters of democratic processes in this assembly, unlike the president of the National Assembly, that you will support my position, that you will not answer me for this injury, because it did not refer to you. If you were to ask the SRS, it would never have been such a disastrous Rules of Procedure here, so I ask that the Assembly in the voting day declare that President of the National Assembly Predrag Markovic has today injured Article 85, paragraphs 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure, and after an obvious injury, I believe you'll properly punish the president, and he'll probably resort to the old method and resign, so he can pull it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17039	Of course I couldn't, and I wouldn't want to defend the president of the assembly, so we'll put your remarks to a vote in voting day and the Assembly will decide whether or not the president has injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 85. Is there anyone else answering the amendment to Article 9? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, there were a lot of words in the principle debate, which was united with seven more points of the agenda. On this occasion, MPs of the SRS group presented for this speaker a number of arguments that required the law to be withdrawn from the agenda, a series of arguments that suggested that the bill was not good, that it was not in the interest of Serbian citizens. But as we can see, the ruling majority, primarily Minister Dinkic, insists that the bill is passed, and this is nothing more than an attempt to legalise the robbery and destruction of domestic banking, as well as the preparation of the sale of domestic insurance companies. We are all witnessing what has been happening in the financial plan in the Republic of Serbia over the past years. About 25 hundred banks have been closed, which is insurance companies. A large number of workers are out of work. The aim of all this was double: firstly, to free the financial market, i.e. the financial field of the Republic of Serbia for foreign banks, which will thus control the economy, i.e. the production of the Republic of Serbia; second reason is that the money will be credited by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at very unfavourable interest rates. We are not surprised by the SRS that this proposal is this bad, since we know from which parliamentary group it came. In particular, the amendment I submitted to article 10 says that this article is deleted. Regardless of the fact that some MPs are trying to challenge this way of writing amendments, simply, any other way of writing amendments would not be able to fix such a bad bill, except that it is completely deleted. No wonder he's this bad, as he comes from a parliamentary group that barely has 2% of the standoffs in Serbia's electoral body. Once again, I am taking the opportunity to call Minister Dinkic, regardless of what is not in the O.R., to withdraw this bill from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17041	Thank you. First came MP Zoran Krasic and then Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17042	Article 10 is something similar to the previous one, only as regards insurance companies. It is now much more concrete – that the agency, within 20 days of the date of the bankruptcy procedure, or the opening, as you will, through a public tender, advertises the transfer of the insurance portfolio; it decides. But what is a newspaper, and differs from banks, is seen as the NBS gives consent to the choice of the best bidder – the portfolio taker. How is it now possible in one bankruptcy procedure that the NBS or any other body, outside of those bodies that conduct the bankruptcy process, gives any consent and to ask questions? Every time you give consent to something, it's a complicated legal act. So if someone at the Ministry knew what simple single administrative acts were, and what are complex acts, then you would never write this here. But, no, you're now asking the NBS to give consent to a decision on the selection of an insurance company to be handed over to the portfolio by the insurance company over which the bankruptcy proceedings were opened. Next you go, and you say - the transfer of the insurance portfolio is carried out by a contract concluded between the creditor (how can the creditor conclude this) and the insurance company - the portfolio acquirer. The analysis at the banks was the agency and the other bank, through which insurance deposits should be paid, and here is your analogy to throw in an insurance company, which is a bankruptcy debtor, who can only be represented by an agency that is a bankruptcy manager. You've made absolutely no mistake. Experts can smile by tomorrow, you'll make a total blockade. Even if your Kljajevic, president of this trade court, who you of the G17 keep from getting rid of... Just smile, everyone who smiled like that has become a statistical mistake. Just smile, you'll see for yourself what chaos you'll have with these laws. You'll see, and on the side of the company, you won't be allowed to move a finger. Think about these solutions, because these solutions will cost the financial system of the Republic of Serbia dearly. You're not aware of that. Now you're strong, you think you're power, you think you can do anything. This doesn't communicate with each other. There is no logic, 20 days after the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, you call on the insurance companies that the company will assume from them to fulfil the obligations under the insurance policy of that insurance company over which you opened up the bankruptcy. You can't get out of this problem now, which you've done by shutting down 15 insurance companies and by the fact that several hundred thousand people have really been denied the opportunity to compensate for their damage through insurance. You've denied them these possibilities. Now, when there have been so many legal restrictions, when you reach into your hands this great and broad powers, I will tell you, and those banks of art. 9th and 16th. The deposit insurance law and insurance companies to which you will transfer these policies into a portfolio will be the cost of the bankruptcy process. That's where you can see the National Savings Center, when it comes to banks. When it comes to insurance companies, you can see what you're making, not in the sense of someone new, but you're strengthening one of your insurance companies. But remember, you from G17 plus, or individual from G17 plus, not all: anyone who comes after you to power, all these laws will have to change and return to normal, and I already see that you're saying it's going to be some sort of rematch. There's no rematch if something goes back to normal. You're asking us to cooperate with you, not guilty or indemnity. Of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17043	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 10 states that within 20 days of the date of the bankruptcy proceedings, through a public tender, the Agency shall advertise the transfer of the entire or part of the insurance portfolio, etc. The purpose of the agency is to be and work exclusively in the interest of the government, so at least someone is trying to tell us because the bankruptcy of the bank and the insurance company is being conducted by the agency itself, as said in Article 7. The bill, which says: "The bankruptcy proceedings are bankruptly larger, the bankruptcy manager and the trustees' committee." It's said, "The agency functions as a bankruptcy manager in accordance with this law." More to be like cake cream: ′′On a proposal from the Agency, the majority chooses trustees' board members, taking care of the size of their claims. ′′ So the Agency decides who and the trustee will represent. Who's representing the Agency? The Agency shall be represented by the Management Board and the Director of the Agency, and how do we reach the Management Board? The Management Board shall have seven members, including the chairman of the Management Board. In paragraph 2, it is said – members of the board of directors are appointed and resolved by the Government, and in the next position – members of the board of directors by function are the minister responsible for the financial affairs... Mladjan Dinkic will be a member of the board of directors and will choose himself as a member of the government on the board. Furthermore, the minister in charge of business affairs, and on top of that, vice governor of the NBS, in charge of the bank's control tasks. And who controls the National Bank when he sets up a vice governor of the NBS? Mladjan Dinkic again. Now the other members of the board of directors are again appointed by the Government, one member on a proposal from the NBS. And, is there no longer a vice governor as a representative of the NBS, why one member proposes NBS, one member on the proposal of a representative bank association, read on – National Savings Bank and Commercial Bank. They're board members. Now you're saying, you who defend the bill, that there is no authority of a political party here, that this is done exclusively in the interests of the citizens. If someone starts reading the law, they'll see that everything that's passed in this set of laws fits one political party, one or two people. Do not accuse MPs who submit amendments of being lazy, because in the light of this amendment, I will now read the explanation, it says well that the National Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the session of the Assembly is scheduled three days before the maintenance so as to make it impossible for MPs to submit amendments, so that such unbulentful legal solutions can be pushed over to the National Assembly, allowing people and states to be robbed further. This proposed legal solution only legalises the robbery and destruction of the domestic banking system and prepares the sale of large domestic insurance companies. A pretty good explanation for someone you want to accuse of being lazy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17045	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17046	Since there's little time left for this amendment, two minutes to be exact, so it's time for those two minutes to be used wisely, let me say a few words too. Article 10 – The Agency shall, within 20 days of the date of commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, through a public tender, advertise the transfer of all or part of the insurance portfolio, according to available cash and so on. Mr. Arsic nearly drew all the funds concentrated in the hands of Finance Minister Alis Mladjan Dinkic. Just two more words, relating to this law: not the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party wrote amendments from Article 1 to Article 32 to be deleted because they did not know different amendments to write, but because such a bill, such a legal concept does not deserve to be found in the assembly procedure and does not deserve support. This is the only way to make it clear to you, not to you from the ruling coalition, but to the citizens of Serbia, what kind of legal projects you're preparing, how you've introduced into the legal frameworks of thieving and riding that you've been doing since 2000. Gentlemen, since 2000, all financial flows have been in the hands of one single party, one encrypted political organisation. So, not because we didn't know to write different amendments, because for every law, if Members of the ruling majority remember, which was worth something, we were giving amendments to improve the law. This legislative proposal cannot be corrected by any amendments, this legislative proposal leads only to the legalisation of thieves in the financial field that has existed since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17047	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 of the proposed law, which, according to previous members, reads - will be deleted, as will a number of parties that are now the ruling parties be deleted from the political scene in the first next parliamentary elections. By closing banks that are liquid, such as Beobanka, of course, you have done great damage to the people, and the product of your reforms is a large number of unemployed and large numbers of damaged citizens to whom you have remained in debt. Also, here we have heard major objections from SRS MPs, especially when it comes to the privatisation of banks, or the sale of a business space, where we have attractive locations in city centers across Serbia, where you have sold budgets for very cheap money, and much of those funds ended up in your pockets. The results of the reforms, of course, we all know, there are a large number of unemployed and a large number of people who are damaged, all of which are our fellow citizens. Here, money is mentioned from Cyprus, and we have not heard the answers to many questions raised before the SRS MPs, and for the kidnapping of all these banks, no one has ever been held responsible; you have mentioned Bogoljub Karic, as one of the tycoon, the largest tycoon in Serbia, and he is not punished, and you who are in power should do so. It also needs to be answered by Mr. Labus' programme to resuscitate banks, and there is no answer to that. No business bank control was by the NBS, and that's where you owe the answer to that question. The alignment of this law with all other laws in this area in order to regulate our banking – of course, there is no place for it, and we SRS MPs believe that it is another of the excess proposals of your laws. The sanctions you're saying have been lifted on over 4,000 products – gentlemen from the ruling parties, I ask you who are the sanctions actually lifted from. The sanctions were taken down by those companies that were bought by Slovenians, Germans, Americans, Croats; in fact, they took down their sanctions, gentlemen. Why don't you solve the raspberry problem? Just like last year, it's happening again now that our fellow citizens are going to lose huge funds because of the raspberries and your impeccableness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17049	People's MP Momir Markovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to finally shed light on this nebulose called the Prelogn law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, I will read to you Article 11 and try to analyse this Article 11: "The Agency and creditors have the right to refute legal affairs and legal actions which the creditor has favored creditors in terms of laws governing the bankruptcy of companies. Legal transactions and legal acts referred to in Article 1(1) may be refuted if they are carried out within six months before the date of the legal consequence of the bankruptcy proceedings. "Here's a chance that, next to the bank where you hold the deposit, next to the insurance company that will be liquidated, the Ministry of Finance, Alias Mladjan Dinkic, puts his hand in the pocket of business entities and natural persons who have dealt with these insurance companies or this bank. What exactly is this about? You today secure your factory, the small businessman secures at the DDOR, and at the DDOR Mladjan Dinkic has long thrown his eye, so it doesn't pass six months, and you have secured your company with him, complete property and since he will take over the DDOR (he or one of his godmothers, does not have to be Hamovic, he has many godmothers, he doesn't have to be even Lazarevic, he has other godmothers), then he will be able to deny you the right. How will he deny you the right? Even if you recover your funds, you'll get to Article 11. The agency, which is a bankruptcy manager and also a bankruptcy board formed by the government on a proposal from the ministry (a little while Mr. Arsic taxed that it comes to this committee and to the bankruptcy manager), then they will also put a few trustees, who will be placed in this newly formed, except that they will not be called DDOR and will not be owned by those whose ownership is now DDOR, but those godfathers, and the Kumovic ties are otherwise here, especially in the Ministry of Finance very developed, say – five and a half months ago you did so, and are now being liquidated. Article 11 of this law regulates you to be deprived of the right to seek recovery of your funds. First, they will block the funds, and then you will go to court, because the position of the 3rd member says – legal transactions and legal actions under Article 1 of this article are being challenged by a lawsuit which can be filed no later than six months from the date of the legal consequences. So he leaves himself a year, six months before the bankruptcy and six months until the day of the lawsuit, and then the trial will be dragged away for a few years until your assets are completely worthless. Madam and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge all MPs of the opposition and the security deputies of the ruling majority to vote the amendment to Article 11 in the voting day, and therefore to finally remove this law from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17051	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17052	In this bill, bankruptcy is perceived as the first variant of bankruptcy under that general bankruptcy regulation, which is that the ultimate objective of bankruptcy is bankruptcy. Since the ultimate objective is bankruptcy, then it is perfectly logical that this provision, which is set out in the proposed law, which refers to Article 12, is that in a bankruptcy procedure against the bank and the insurance company, no sale of the creditor as a legal entity is allowed. It is normal because the final result of bankruptcy is the termination of a legal entity, whether it is a bank or an insurance company. This provision, as it is written, is insufficient, and if aid for this situation is found in a general law that regulates bankruptcy proceedings, an even greater error would be made. All bankruptcy proceedings end, among other things, in a solution that means the termination of a legal person. It is a good thing that there is a ban, practically, on sales, but there are no provisions concerning the status of the creditor, the legal status of the creditor, the provisions concerning the assets of the creditor, and that only indicates that this provision, as it is written, will require a number of interpretations, because neither the creditor nor the creditor, nor the bankruptcy judge, nor the bankruptcy in some peripheral and problematic legal facts, will know how to decide. With this amendment, we just wanted to draw your attention that you didn't finish the job. It's a good thing you wrote that in a bankruptcy procedure you can't sell a creditor as a legal person, but there are no provisions missing. Since we know what this whole operation is about, making new rules that need to regulate both status and business, so why not winding up and bankruptcy of insurance companies and banks, since we know the motives, you put this here only pro-forms, because what you've put on would be applied anyway by logic of things, and by the fact that as a subsidiary regulation, you're applying the general rules on bankruptcy over an economic operator. Here you just wanted to make some pro-forme connection, as if you were doing something serious, and to cover up the essence of the entire project of illicit interference in what is called the banking system and the property and person insurance system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17053	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17054	Article 13. The proposal for a law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies reads as follows: ′′The Agency is obliged to carry out a list of assets of the creditor and form the initial bankruptcy balance within 60 days of the date of the legal consequences of the bankruptcy. ′′ Article 8 of the same draft law states that the legal consequences of the bankruptcy proceedings are to take place on the date of the publication of the ad to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings on the competent court’s advertising board. The legal consequences and the possible real consequences have been discussed by colleagues who spoke about the amendment to Article 8 which is related to Article 13 to which the amendment was submitted by counterpart Suleiman Spaho and suggested that this Member of the Law be deleted. Repeating what I have said several times today, that all of these amendments spoken by Serbian Radical Party MPs have expressed our principled position on this bill, that is, our principled position on the work of the government of Serbia, on the consequences of the current finance minister's operation, from the time he was governor of the National Bank, on how Serbian banks were destroyed, that banks from the white world are being brought here to earn money on Serbian citizens, who are forced to take loans from these banks, which are otherwise very expensive. And in order to avoid our banks operating that way, then the current finance minister, when he was governor of the National Bank, destroyed our banks. Now he still has to destroy the insurance companies. That's why he announced here that this law we're talking about today needs to be passed in order to privatise the New Sad DDOR. We in the Serbian Radical Party think it is not good and it is unnecessary to pass laws for each privatisation individually. Therefore, we think that this article 13, as well as the other members of this law, should be deleted, i.e. that this law should not be passed. If the minister were here to listen to us, we would warmly recommend that he withdraw this law from the procedure, as the Serbian government has withdrawn from the procedure many laws that are much more important than this and than those we are discussing today, but this is some plan of the government's work with which the National Assembly is harmonising, which is inadmissible according to the position of the Serbian Radical Party. Unfortunately, you have brought such a Rules of Procedure that you are not obliged to work in this House, and then you dare to resent us because we are working, and then you say that our amendments represent obstruction. We say and I say that our amendments show the position of the Serbian Radical Party according to such poor legal proposals and the inability to address the government's representative as the representative of the bill. We address those MPs who, although not bound by the Rules of Procedure, are sitting here in this House, to accept our amendments in the day of voting and to prevent the destruction of the DDOR, ′′Dunava′′ and other insurance companies, which will end up as ′′Beobanka′′, ′′Jugobanka′′ and other Serbian banks destroyed by the current finance minister, and then the governor of the National Bank, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17055	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. So that there may be no confusion, of course, that the proposing representative is there all the time; the minister was there during the principle debate, and during the debate on details, not the minister is present, but the people from the ministry who record further objections. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17056	Mr. President, the government's representative in the Assembly can only be a minister, and trustees in the work of the committees can be other persons. Okay, that's not why I answered. I've come forward about the amendment to Article 13. A bill governing one of the obligations of the agency which is practically a bankruptcy manager. It provides for the obligation to carry out a list of assets of the creditor, which are banks and insurance companies, and to form an initial bankruptcy balance within 60 days of the date of the legal consequences of the bankruptcy. That's no less a bad provision, and that's what it takes. However, it does not need to be a Article 13, but should be Article 8a or Article 9. If by the logic of things should be at the beginning of the bankruptcy process, which is to create this initial balance, it is necessary, inform Mr Dinkic, if he once participated, though, he was in a short period and an expert, and how he was an expert, I don't know – if a bankruptcy procedure is already opened and set up a bankruptcy manager, after these promotional duties between the creditor and the debtor's authority the first thing that follows is a list of assets. You have the sixth thing. With you, the first thing is the Agency's obligation on the basis of secured deposits. How can the agency meet its obligations, how can the agency publish a public tender and calls, if it is a bank as a creditor for another bank, and when it comes to an insurance company as a creditor for another insurance company, how can it conclude with them a contract, how can it do anything with them without an initial bankruptcy balance? I don't know how you pictured it. Then you have a sort of overlapping deadline. It's probably clear to all of us that large insurance companies, like these biggest companies of ours, are not jinxing, nor are I prejudge future status, but it's impossible to create an initial balance for 60 days in large insurance companies or large banks. You started a bankruptcy proceedings against some banks, and after a year and a half, you didn't make it to the bankruptcy balance. It wasn't the law, that's what I have to say, about bankruptcy. It wasn't the law, you speeded it up, as far as trade courts are concerned, so today the governor delivers a solution, tomorrow the court that carries out the bankruptcy has to make its decision to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings, and so you allegedly did something to make it effective. This is impossible. It is impossible for the deposit insurance agency, which is a bankruptcy manager in the case of banks, the bankruptcy manager in the case of insurance companies, to open a public tender and choose a bank through which these savings-based liabilities will be settled and the insurance company will be chosen through which obligations will also be met on the basis of the bankruptcy insurance policy without any initial balance. That's impossible, and you're the only one who can. There is some order, and if you say – well, we only list exceptions to the general rule of bankruptcy, I'm telling you that you've made a mistake again, because if you went through the logic of the general rule, you wouldn't be doing this if you were putting something in the 13th article that's probably after you've made the solution the first thing that needs to be done. When you look at these deadlines, basically, you have deadlines here for overlapping and deadlines. This is where you said it was 20 days to call a tender, and when it comes to banks, it's 15 days. So, a tender is being called; how are you going to announce in the tender the information that is the condition of the tender, for which someone else is going to participate? What, you're just saying: a bankruptcy procedure has been opened against the NN Bank, we call on banks who would be willing to pay off what was a liability based on secured savings deposits. What would a bank do besides the National Savings Bank? She'd have to answer, 'cause she's a good nona for everyone. No one wanted to pay off the old foreign savings, she wanted a new bank. As you can see, it was much better that we opened up that theme about Mladjan Dinkic, about the National Savings Officer, about that sinking Cyprus, about those exotic islands with accounts off the Shore Company. Look, you guys can't stop any marifettelu with the law. This topic is unstoppable. What's more, you're warming her up, you're even trying to prove some of our hunch that it's absolutely true, because you're silent, you're avoiding or you're coming out here and you're defending it, I don't know, "jointing," "Study on Performance," all of those yellow stars around your head, like a hareol of some. That's what no one will listen to, remember, it's a failure. So you're wrong about the order. It's not good when something that tends to be a system solution works quickly, by system: we have 131 votes, we'll get it out fast. Here, to end the debate at this point, do you think it would be better for banks, insurance companies, savings and those who have secured their assets or their lives with insurance companies? Didn't you learn a lesson from this adventure called shutting down 15 insurance companies? There are some things that are true, such as that thing, let's say that a square meter of living space in which it allegedly invested some insurance company capital, like some long-term investment, and there was 20,000 euros per meter of square meters there, etc. We don't argue with you. You work here, you enforce the law. But don't let some other insurance company do the same thing, and you didn't measure against him. That's the main problem. There are insurance companies, and you know it well... For one single question about this, at one of the meetings of the Finance Committee, the governor simply went out, because as soon as he's broken up a little after your reports, those bomb words, etc., it's all on glass feet. You can see the will that's coming out. Remember, if Mladjan Dinkic is in control, it's legal. If he's not in control, nothing's legal. Well, no normal man in politics would have seized as much jurisdiction as this Mladjan Dinkic took. Any normal man would want, according to his abilities, to control just something he can. It's all absolutely here. That's the problem and the problem is that you have to apply to wishes that are maximum, and they're physically inexhaustible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17057	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milivoje Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, which reads "Article 14 is deleted". Someone's going to say, well, you radicals and you don't have any real amendments, but you just get deleted. Normally, for each member, we suggest that we delete when we are essentially against the whole law. We don't think the whole law is right, so all amendments have to be the same. It's "expunged." We understand that you have to listen to your sponsors, so the meetings of the Assembly are scheduled three days before the maintenance to prevent the MPs from discussing each law. to prevent them from studying the laws well and making real objections and amendments. This law is only the basis for further collapse of the state and is legalizing further robbery and destruction of domestic banking and the preparation of the sale of large domestic insurance companies. There are more foreign banks in our country that take our money and invest in their countries, not here. I'm really not an expert in this area, but I don't know if there's any of our banks that are safe and doing well. If there is, I'd like someone to tell me what that bank's name is. As far as I know, four large banks that meant something in this country have been liquidated. To get a loan, say, for buying an apartment or a house, it's a thinking noun, unless you're the governor of the National Bank. Well, then things are different -- you can get a loan. Yeah, that's right. And what do ordinary mortals do? How do they buy a house or an apartment? Well, we can't all be governors of the National Bank to get credit. It's also the same thing with the insurance companies. Insurance companies aren't under the control of the National Bank yet, but now you want to put them under control through the agencies. We worked against those agencies because they don't do us any good. If we keep this up, we won't have domestics or banks or insurance companies very soon. Article 14 states: "The Agency is obliged to establish the basis and the level of applications filed by the trustees within six months of the date of their application. The final list of all applications shall be held within 60 days of the date of expiry of the period set out in Article 1(1). "I think that the interests of citizens and economic operators, i.e. creditors, are at stake with such long deadlines. In the end, we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17059	Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17060	According to these comments, you are crying out for facts and evidence, which is why this amendment is extremely good. Here, let me explain. What's this about? The bankruptcy law, the general regulation that regulates bankruptcy proceedings and all rights and duties of all participants in the bankruptcy procedure, also contains one provision setting out within which time the claims are entered and within which time these cuts, balances, etc. are made. If you want to potential some specificity with banks and insurance companies, which is why insurance companies and banks could not go into bankruptcy under this general regulation, then you need to install that specificity in this bill. Now let me help you with something. One of these specificities about banks, where the agency's business as a bankruptcy manager has long been carried out in our legal system, is that there is no dispute over claims when it comes to the savings stakes of citizens, citizens' deposits and at all business between banks and citizens. All accounting records owned by the bank, about the state of claim, debt, etc., primarily have absolute accuracy. I would accept this standard that you would suggest if it were the trustees of insurance companies and banks that weren't physical. When it comes to insurance companies, then all those who have concluded a contract and all policyholders formally should not have the status of the trustee of that type you give them in Article 14, they are already so-called. Priority creditors who do not report their claims due to the absolute accuracy of the records kept by banks. As soon as you start with the facts, then both the representative and the trustee are lost as their own tail. If this provision applies to regular creditors from some commercial bank business with a legal person, then this makes sense, but not in this law, but in that ordinary law that prescribes bankruptcy proceedings. In this law, there should be a provision to save and policyholders do not have the obligation to report claims, because there is a presummation of absolute accuracy of what is stated in books as a claim for citizens based on savings, demand for citizens based on a broken insurance contract or something else entirely. Since the policy is handed over in the portfolio of another insurance company, those persons and do not have the status of participants in this procedure. But, you see, these thin differences that are necessary for the application of this regulation are not in this law, where they have to be, but simply stupid, like that big creature in the glass shop, and it's all very professional. This is impossible to apply. In order to apply this member, the judge must first consider who the trustee is. Is she a trustee? Which trustee is he? You've got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17061	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tihomir Đuricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17062	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 15 of the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, reads: "The Agency may decide to provide the costs of the bankruptcy procedure temporarily from its own resources, with the right to recover these funds after the formation of the bankruptcy mass to an extent sufficient to settle these costs," which can be concluded that the agency can and is not obliged to provide funds for liquidation. I think it is quite logical that the funds mentioned for bankruptcy are provided by the National Bank of Serbia, given that it issues and withdraws permits for the work of these banks and insurance companies, not by the deposit insurance agency, as provided for in this article of the bill. With the proposal of this member, the Proposer very cleverly predicted that the agency could and did not have to provide the funds mentioned. It's just a question of who it depends on whether it's going to provide or not. Someone here mentioned that the agency is helping with the work of the Ministry. Yeah, but in what way? Helping out can be done in many ways, everything depends on who thinks it is. Translated in Serbian, the law envisions an agency that will literally do a dirty job at the ministry. Since we know which ministry this authority belongs to, and who is the resolute minister, the set of all these laws on the agenda of this session has been given great powers to Mr Dinkic's finance minister in terms of running procedures, doing business, managing through boards of directors, controlling the work and business of financial institutions, which, in my view, is a conflict of interest. Let's just remember what happened when Mr. Dinkic was governor of the National Bank. Close ′′Astra banka′′, after that unfortunate Djelic returns money, doesn't know who drinks or who pays, but that's why these agencies are invented to transfer jurisdiction and take responsibility from each other, so that no one can know who's drinking who's paying. In order not to be like in the Turkish era – the cadiya sues you, I call on the Republic Committee on conflict of interest to review the conflict of interest stemming from the bill's proposal. The minister can't decide everything: he's running the procedure, he's in control, he's opening up, he's closing what's right for him. Since the Serbian Radical Party is against the establishment of various agencies, which serve nothing but to arrest certain members of your parties, I propose this amendment to delete Article 15 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17063	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17064	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as in all the laws that we have discussed these days, and in this law as we come to an end, or to that member who has transitional and final provisions, the real intentions of the legislator are revealed. Article 15 says: ′′The Agency may decide to provide the costs of the bankruptcy procedure temporarily from its own resources, with the right to recover these funds after the formation of the bankruptcy mass to an extent sufficient to settle these costs. ′′ First, in several previous members, we SRS MPs have made it clear to the citizens of Serbia that financial and legal criminal technology all ends slowly come down into the hands of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. So, he's the one who's gonna move his fingers, and the governor and everyone else who's gonna be the last man in the agency is gonna be puppets and he's gonna play the way he pulls his fingers. The second thing, the agency may decide to temporarily provide the costs of the bankruptcy procedure from its own resources. There is a possibility that these costs of the bankruptcy process are maximum bloated, maximum loads, because the source is safe, and that is the bankruptcy mass of the bank or the bankruptcy mass of the insurance company, surely there will be so much and it will first be settled, and then we will see if there will be anything left for the trustees or not. In order to ensure that, in the second part of this article, it is said – after the formation of a bankruptcy mass to the extent sufficient to settle these costs. In other words, Minister Dinkic can, and he can, because he is in a position to decide, to make an incredibly large expense in the DDOR. First, to introduce bankruptcy, to make an incredibly high cost through this agency, to cover those costs from the bankruptcy, and then you saw in the previous views, and then only what remains is possibly shared by the trustees of that insurance company or some of the banks that have missed in that first cut. What's gonna happen? In previous members, we've seen that after four months, six months, 60 days... And now you drive your car down the street and you get hit by someone who's a DDOR security guard. DR. Mladjan Dinkić introduced him into bankruptcy because he prepares him, prepares him for one of his friends, doesn't pass six months, and he certainly can't pass; take care of how you drive and make sure you don't meet those who are insured with the DDOR, because if it doesn't pass six months it's not mandatory to pay for the damage from the bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time to put an end to this whole debate, to have the representative withdraw this bill, to stop harassing both us and the citizens of Serbia and stop threatening all the insurance companies, above all DDOR, the Danube and the larger houses, because he's not going to take on those tiny ones, and yet he has recently delivered them in the first cut. That neither you nor those employees, nor you trust banks or insurance companies anymore; that you find experts, since it is evident that you are no longer, for three years you have lied to the people that you are experts, you have finally proved that you have no idea, that they are making you a law, and that by that law you will come before the MPs, that we will adopt it normally, without amendments, and that this law will finally be in office. Before that, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17065	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 of the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. In short, I'll explain why I asked this member to be deleted. The National Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so session sessions of the Assembly are scheduled immediately before the maintenance to prevent MPs from submitting amendments to the National Assembly to push such unbulful legal solutions that allow for further pillaging of peoples and states. This proposed legal solution only legalises the robbery and destruction of domestic banking and the preparation of the sale of domestic insurance companies. This bill is not good for anyone, and primarily for Serbian banking, which has been completely destroyed and serves individuals for enormous wealth. Because of all of the above, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the bill, as well as any law that is at the expense of Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17067	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, which the government submitted to the National Assembly. In the explanation that I have given as a proposal before the SRS parliamentary group stands – The National Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the National Assembly sessions are scheduled three days before the maintenance to prevent the National Assembly from submitting amendments to the National Assembly, so that such unbulent legal solutions can be used to further rob peoples and states. This proposed legal solution only legalises the robbery and destruction of domestic banking and the preparation of the sale of large domestic insurance companies. In fact, we from the Serbian Radical Party have rightly all of us here talked about this speaker, that this bill in office of this government, G17 plus, that is, the interest group that has turned Serbian citizens black. Of course, the National Assembly was placed in full office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. as a political group that calls itself G17 plus; they were previously called NGOs, experts, etc. Of course, here we can say that the Democratic Party of Serbia has the greatest responsibility here, because it is in a coalition with G17 plus, and there is no political option that supports the ruling coalition to justify all of this, which is done by a political party, which calls itself a party that will introduce Serbia to Europe and whose head of the parliamentary group for this speaker has brought a bunch of lies. He'd better go back and teach math at the high school where he did it, than he does politics, because it's obvious he's completely missed. These changes include insurance companies. This is the essence of all what this bill in Article 17 states: ′′The requests of the bank's creditors in bankruptcy are determined at the test hearing and are paid according to the following priority lines (payment lines): 1) the Agency's claims on the basis of the guaranteed amount of deposits of natural persons and claims on the basis of the deposits of natural persons reduced by the amount of the secured deposit; 2) claims on the basis of public income reached in the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, other than contributions for pension and disability insurance employees; 3) claims of other creditors; 4) claims of bank shareholders. ′′ So, the essence of this bill is – as is all done with Serbian banks, of course, it will be done with insurance companies. It is clear that Serbia's citizens, who are in a very bad situation, will be brought into a situation because they are led by such a government, that an interested group such as G17 plus manages the monetary system of this country and individuals such as Miroljub Labus, vice-president of the Republic Government and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, also adopt laws that are contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. Because of everything you've done in the past, when you were in DOS government, and now, as ministers, when you're in the majority government with the DSS, you're the most responsible for the state. Serbian citizens live badly and will likely live even worse after all these legislative proposals that your parliamentary majority in this assembly brings to the detriment of Serbian citizens. You're passing the laws you've proposed to the National Assembly in a hurry. You are trying to change the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament to speed up the country's collapse process. We will try in every way possible to explain to the citizens of Serbia what defeat this government is, headed by the DSS and G17 plus, the government at the republican level. We hope very quickly to call the republican elections, where the citizens of Serbia will annul you because you have not met your expectations. Serbian citizens live very badly. Serbia is on the verge of existence, both in social and economic terms; the state of the country is very bad, you do not care. Some G17 MPs plus defended their legal proposals for this speaker and even found that Serbian citizens live badly. If you said so in the campaign, then you wouldn't get that number of votes you got, but now, after all, you can see that in the next election you won't cross that election censorship and you'll go to the junkyard of political history.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17069	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17070	The amendment concerns Article 17. A bill that regulates payment orders when it comes to bankruptcy of the bank. Article 16 refers to the settlement, i.e. the cost of the bankruptcy process, and a very limited part of the costs, in the case of both banks and insurance companies against which the bankruptcy proceedings are conducted. I'm deliberately making a connection between these two members for the simple reason that in the very definition of bankruptcy in this variant we have, practically, bankruptcy. Since it is bankruptcy, then all the credentials, regardless of how they are quoted in their application, can count on them to have a proportionate settlement of their claims in bankruptcy, because simply in bankruptcy there is no amount of money that would settle all the creditors, when it comes to Article 17, the bank. It is now listed as point 1), it is considered to be the Agency's claim, but here the Agency appears in the part where it provides a deposit, not in the part where the bankruptcy manager is. There's a difference here. Of course, as far as citizens are concerned and meeting obligations based on state guarantees for savings and deposits of natural persons, it's perfectly normal to put it first. Requests based on public revenues arrived in the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, except for contributions to PIO employees. So, PIO employees, at least as far as those who stayed there are concerned, is the cost of the bankruptcy procedure in Article 16 and that's why I'm deliberately making you this comparison and this relationship. Requesting other creditors and requesting bank shareholders. That's where we have the biggest problem. If we assume that a bankruptcy procedure has opened up against a bank that has fully agreed its organisation and its capital with the current Banks and Financial Organizations Act, then we can say that we have banks with defined owners and, why not say, privateised banks, because it's all clear. However, there is only one small danger: that because of the costs of Article 16, and these are the costs of the bankruptcy procedure, and because of these payment orders, they are left like this, where a larger remark cannot be made, this last category comes into a situation to determine that it will practically not settle its claim, not because it is a shareholder in a bankruptcy debtor, because that part is not covered here, but on the basis of some of its claims from the regular business, the founder of the bank, as a legal person, with a bank as a legal person. We have an irregular position here, and there is some justification for this position, but there is no protection from one possible link between Article 16 and Article 17 to defie some normal claims that the bank shareholder had toward the bank from some third job, some commercial arrangement. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about changing the Banks and Financial Organizations Act; it's that famous member of 57j who says the mandatory bank goes into bankruptcy if it's insolvent for more than 15 days, so the bill doesn't work, and if the bank's obligations are greater than its assets. This first reason referred to in Article 10 is relatively easy to establish. This second, that the bank's liabilities are larger than its assets, can be determined only once by the depth control of the bank's operations, so that it can be seen that the bank in some way has eaten up its substance and is in the waters of fictitious business. When the situation comes, then, as a rule, creditors can't count on a large percentage of the charges of their claims. I'm not going to bid now whether it's 10, 20 or 50%, but I just can't believe that some trustee can charge his claim more than 60% of the nominal amount of that claim, for the simple reason that this condition in point 11) of the Banks and Financial Organizations Act says that the bank has gone deep into dubiosis, so as soon as the bankruptcy procedure is launched. So, there is no principled objection to these payment orders, but I believe that the solution contained in the existing Restitution and Bank Bank Bank Banks Act and in the general regulation that regulates liquidation, therefore, gives better solutions to this situation when it comes to the bank. What is the obligation of the state is certainly the part where the guarantee of the state is realised through the part that is paid through the Deposit Insurance Agency. That's why I'm saying, this is where the point 1) needs the Agency to be mentioned as an organization that guarantees savings roles on behalf of the state, not as a bankruptcy manager. There is a dangerous connection to the solutions in Article 16, and I am absolutely sure that this is at point 4) – the demands of the bank shareholders, an almost imaginary category, which is just for the sake of order set up here, because it will essentially have no greater justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17071	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17072	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of 18, regulate claims, or payment orders when it comes to claims against insurance companies. I draw attention to the legislator of this law that he has paid attention to only one thing that is very large from the point of view of the practice that is happening with us. See, claims made by bankruptcy insurance companies shall be determined at the test hearing and shall be paid according to the following priority lines: 1) claims by the trustee under the life insurance and reinsurance contracts, up to the level of obligations expressed in the assets of the mathematical reserve, in accordance with the law governing the insurance. Please, and there is a difference: you have claims that a citizen has towards an insurance company, which are registered in a court of law; you have claims that are registered in a peaceful procedure between an insurance company and an insurance company and you have controversial claims, where the insurance company and the citizen could not be struck, agreed and the case went to court. It's not a meaningless thing for this law. Second point - trustor claims based on an accident insurance contract. Third point – trustor claims on the basis of insurance contracts of all other types of insurance; fourth – trustor claims under resecuritisation contracts. But to get back to this third point. There's also damage insurance, so there's passenger cars, I mean damages, and there's a situation where people are waiting with judgments to collect their claims, waiting for some priority in a peaceful procedure, and now they've been struck by the bankruptcy of the insurance company. Well, wait, who has the priority, is he who holds in his hands a two-year-old verdict that obliges the insurance company to pay him compensation for damages or some other trustee on the same basis as the bankruptcy manager admitted to the claim? There's got to be some difference here. You can't put that in the same basket. And why is that? The question arises why that citizen, believing in the state, for two or three years conducted a trial, received a verdict, a judicial verdict, an executive verdict, could not be carried out, and now it happens to settle a third party's claim before him, who probably later had an accident, so the damage was caused. All of you who represent in court notice what's going on. This is a serious lack of this law, which will appear in practice. This trustee claim based on the insurance contract, that's something else. Requests based on public revenues have arrived in the last three months before the bankruptcy process is launched – it is something that goes normally. Requests of other creditors, claims of the insurance company shareholders, or members of the mutual insurance company, etc. A similar logic with points 3 and 4 of the preceding article, but that difference must be made with regard to the claim. What should one who, for example, has been waiting seven years for the execution of a large insurance company, interest has done its part, someone is causing the bankruptcy of that insurance company; of course, it will be relatively settled, but in what payment order? Life insurance, first payment order, etc. Where's his claim? His claims were eaten by later claims recognised in a peaceful procedure or by a bankruptcy administrator. The thin difference must exist, because then citizens need not lead the proceedings before the court and get court rulings, but to run to the agency, to negotiate with some representative of the bankruptcy manager, to make some semi-private arrangements to grant them a claim. It goes into the same basket and they settle without a court, no problem at all, in the right proportion as everyone else does. It's some things, and I'm just surprised that you lawyers who are in parties that make up most of it haven't noticed this, and you haven't submitted an appropriate amendment that would determine some order within the pay order, because that also offends your job when you represent someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17073	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a debate on details of the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. In preparation for this debate, I consulted my colleagues, and since this is a law which, by the scope of what is called a special, special law, we have tried to see what the legal system in Serbia will get with this law and whether, if it were not in the legal traffic of the Republic of Serbia, this state would lose something. We have come to the conclusion, formally and legally observed, that nothing special about this law will be obtained, or that nothing will be lost if it is not accepted. But essentially, when it goes from member to member and enters the essence of the law's case, then it is seen that citizens of Serbia, or banks and insurance companies will be in a position to lose a lot of security, because the finance sector wants every sphere, every detail to control. Someone said today – of course it is necessary to control the printing of money, but it is not necessary for Serbian citizens to take theirs, it is not necessary to make life difficult for them anyway. I have submitted an amendment to article 19, and it is in this particular article that the complete senselessness of this law can be seen. Article 19. The proposal for this law states – the bankruptcy of banks and insurance companies, if this law is not otherwise laid down, is subject to the provisions of the law governing the bankruptcy of companies. So, the provisions of each other's laws are applied, as if someone were to say that this is a pen until proven otherwise. There's no need to prove otherwise. It's an obvious observation. However, Article 30 of this law says - bank resolution procedures will be initiated until the entry into force of this law will continue under the law that has been in force so far, which means that we have regulation in this area, that there was no need for this law to be passed. Today someone, defending this law, and I suppose most MPs from the political party G17 plus, actually I am deeply convinced of it, thinks the same as the MPs of the SRS that this law is unnecessary, but probably because of party discipline they support it and today is the deputy president of the parliamentary group, and it does so several times, and sometimes the president of the parliamentary group, when he wants to disprove something, such a flat-rate assessment and help his ministers, they say – do you know how much savings we are now, do you know what number of employees are? Mr Albianic, I have found in nearly 20 municipalities in Serbia that the number of employees with the closure of four large banks has not increased; counting employees in the public pay service remains approximately the same or has been reduced. So it's not true that the number of employees with the closure of the four banks has increased. Then, he says there's been a saving. Don't talk about saving, it's not safe, except for individual cases. It can't come because Serbian citizens are hard to survive, they're hard to make ends meet, and there's no talking about saving, they're just individuals who might be in a situation to save. You're still saying the loan split works. It may work, people are forced to start some business activities, or individuals to simply feed themselves, their families, and to educate children, to take some credits, and you saw yourself today, you could read it, and that is exactly when you go to the bank and ask yourself if you raise 50,000 euros in credit at the time you return you will be obliged to return 106,000 euros. That's 100% interest for some period. Even the minister once suggested that before the loan is raised, one should ask how much the one who takes it will be obliged to return. I'm not going to say that the minister, by his actions and policy-making at the Ministry of Finance, helped to make it so, but by creating the environment, came into such a situation. After closing our largest banks (no reason, Serbian radicals say so, and Serbian citizens, especially those who worked in these banks), foreign banks have come into a situation to rob Serbian citizens of high interest, and Serbian citizens are forced to take these loans because the business activity has completely died; in order to start their activity, that is, the activity they were dealing with, are sometimes, not asking for the price of the loan, to take it. You're saying that citizens now have great security. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it won't be like that, that they have great security. When I leave Ljubljana to Belgrade for a meeting of the Assembly, I take a risk and I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get some gas back on the road. Minister, when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, you said we were doing it (and you were supported here by a number of MPs who support that government) so that we would have a normal supply of diesel fuel. To inform you, you probably don't know that yet, supply is not normal, and it is also your obligation to do something with other government representatives in this field, that at least that uncertainty does not make Serbian citizens feel. Then, there is the uncertainty of the agricultural producers, i.e. the producer of raspberries, cherry and other agricultural products, not to list them now. They absolutely have no certainty about whether their products will be bought at all, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, when they hand it over to certain buyers whether it will be charged. So it is not true that we have great security now, and you are obliged to try to regain the confidence of the citizens of Serbia and to have some greater security, if possible, although I personally doubt that you will succeed; if you want me to express my doubts, your intention may not be the cleanest thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17075	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17076	Amendment to Article 20 reads - Article 20 of the proposed law is deleted. Otherwise, Article 20 refers to an emergency winding-up and is said to be: ′′ Based on the decision to withdraw the NBS's work permit, it immediately makes a decision to liquidate the bank, or another financial organisation. ′′ I, second position of this member: ′′On the basis of the decision to withdraw the licence to carry out the NBS insurance operations, immediately provides a solution to the liquidation of the insurance company. ′′ Of course, the amendment reads - Article 20 is deleted, with a goal already stated and because we are essentially against such a law. In the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said that the justification of the new legal legislation, etc. lies in the need to strengthen the stability of the banking system. We were convinced a year and a half ago that the banking system was stable. It is not a waste to restore stability, but how long will this strengthening of stability be done and when will we experience someone telling us – the banking system is fully stable. In the second part of this reason, it is said – and an increase in citizens' confidence in the banking system. We are also convinced, on every law regarding the area of finance, that the banking system is very stable, that citizens have confidence, that savings are growing, etc. I'll remind you that the largest number of those who have accounts in banks use those accounts exclusively to get paid through it, and that there is very little number of those who save in banks. It is mostly some who are close to those who create monetary policy and know how interest will move and when stability will be on the financial market and have money to save. Let me give you an example: hundreds of agencies that have already been founded have thousands of people, and some of them have huge incomes, and hundreds of thousands of dinars. If you compare the data that came out today in the newspaper – that in the municipality of Lebana, the average salary is over 2,000 dinars, the one that has 300,000 dinars, more than 20 people, will have an average of over 200 euros, so that the average is easily made. Not to mention the example of Bogoljub Karic, who has a salary of 300,000 and a few euros, equal to 1,500 of those from Lebanon who do not receive any salary; on average with 1.501. Bogoljub Karic will have an average salary of more than 200 euros. We believe that the money in Serbia is unevenly distributed, that it is in the hands of a small number of people, that the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in terrible economic problems, and therefore there is a misunderstanding between you who defend this law and us who criticize it, because there is a much greater number of those who can practically not live in Serbia with a decent man's life. Moreover, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is explained that members from 6 to 21 are allowed to carry out as effective a bankruptcy procedure as possible and is said to – until now, the competent court has been obliged to adopt a solution within three days of the day of the adoption of the NBS decision to withdraw the work permit, i.e. the withdrawal of the insurance authorisation. The new law provides for this to be the first working day after receiving a solution from the NBS. I really do not understand what such a haste was, whether three days was such a big deadline that it had to be shortened on the first working day, which could again be three working days, and what a bank or insurance company would be more able to do, or not do, in order to endanger financial stability in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17077	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17078	Article 20. The draft law in the first position refers to the liquidation of banks and, secondly, to the liquidation of insurance companies. What is characteristic of both banks and insurance companies is that the decision to withdraw the work permit is made by the NBS and at the same time brings a solution to the liquidation of the bank, i.e. other financial organisations when it comes to position 1 and when it comes to point 2 of the resolution on the liquidation of the insurance company. I am now reading this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and Financial Organizations as regards this member, which amends Article 57j in paragraph 1, adds two new points of 10) and 11), as a mandatory reason for launching the bankruptcy proceedings. The first nine reasons relate to the withdrawal of the bank's work permit, and as a consequence of that solution, they have the launch of a liquidation procedure. This suggests changes – a new position 4 and a change in item 5, which is in collapsing with Article 20 paragraph 1 of this second law. Here you are saying that the NBS is making a decision on the liquidation of the bank, and in Article 57 of the Banks and Financial Organisations Act, you stated in the final position – the date of the adoption of a decision on the withdrawal of the bank's work permit, and is thought to be the bank, the National Bank of Serbia will block all bank accounts, and this solution, which is now new to what you are adding, will also determine the measure of banning the bank's assets from adopting a decision by the competent court to launch a bankruptcy procedure, i.e. the liquidation procedure. I don't know if it's a termological discrepancy between these two laws, but there's no big logic here. In this law regarding bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, you say that the liquidation solution is made by the NBS, and the liquidation procedure is carried out through the liquidation council and by the liquidator. There's something wrong with these two laws. It's not just a termological nature. I am inclined to these legal and technical solutions under Article 20 of this Act, which is on the agenda, because it has some logic, if it is accepted as a presumption of accuracy that all this has been done on the basis of Article 57 of the Banks and other financial organisations came to the stage of justice. If this is not at the stage of justice, then the administrative dispute can be held against these solutions to withdrawing the work permit. In the morning part, I read all the points (1) to9), where there are so many broad wordings of reasons that it would not surprise me at all that the Supreme Court would pass the lawsuit in the administrative dispute and annul the decision of the governor of the NBS. In the second law, a liquidation procedure was immediately initiated. It is understood, when it comes to forced and voluntary liquidation, that the liquidator - the bank has the means to settle all its obligations and that something remains after the erasure and disappearance of that legal person. What if the Supreme Court finds that the governor's decision to withdraw the work permit was a condition for this second winding-up solution, if adopted, then what? By the logic of the matter, if the governor of the National Bank insists on liquidating himself because of the withdrawal of his work permit, so the Supreme Court always annuls it and returns it, then we have an example that the governor of the National Bank knowingly violates the rules, and that would probably be an abuse of the official position in the criminal code. While someone discusses abuse of official position, the bank is liquidated. Come on, what's been liquidated, but it can happen that at the end of that process, the vast rest of the funds are being determined. Of course, he belongs to the owners, but they've lost the essence of doing banking work. How are we supposed to protect ourselves from that? So I'm saying that here, on purpose, between the Article 20 of this bill, as regards bankruptcy and the liquidation of banks and insurance companies, in the part concerning banks, and the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, a hole has been made, because, practically, the commercial court, which is now in charge of bankruptcy proceedings under the Law of Order of the Courts, has been brought into a very unspeakable position. I deliberately don't comment on this part of the Law on Banks and Financial Organizations, where it is projected, other than asset blockade, and the ban on the availability of property, etc. For such measures, only a court may be competent. Not only can the National Bank and not any executive authority, but only the judicial authority can do such a thing, on the proposal of the authority that comes from the executive authority, to do so. The discrepancy of these two regulations that are now on the agenda and that general regulation that regulates liquidation raises questions as to whether we should adopt such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17079	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 21, for which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed to delete, is proof that this law is contradictory in many of its provisions. This Article 21 has, in a literal sense, been mixed and made up of four laws: the Law on Agencys, the Law on bankruptcy, the Law on Economic Society and this new one we are now discussing. I have to go back to the story from first thing in the morning and Article 3 and you'll see how much it doesn't matter to each other. I told you yesterday, and today we've talked a lot about, that the NBS has given itself a wide range of tasks when it comes to the liquidation of a bank. The question is how many will survive on the market in the future. It's really amazing, and I wonder, and all of you, if you're following at all, what is this article 21 doing to this law at all? If the NBS has so much authority, if there is already a law on it, about the Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, the Company Act, which is now mentioned in Article 21, then it is amazing that we also need this member as a law to regulate this area. We're trying to convince you, and that's why we wrote, from first to last, that each of these members is deleted, that it's completely unnecessary that they exist. The finance minister, Mr Dinkic, who came in this afternoon to follow our work, would be better off dealing with one key issue; if this is a motive for why this law is passed, then he is better off starting with the cause, that is, the consequences of why this is the situation and dealing with the issue of bank relations towards the over-indebted Serbian economy. Whether certain banks, and some of them I mentioned yesterday, they're not these foreign banks, they're working on a much smaller scale with the economy, the ones that exist, so on. domestic banks that have been working with the Serbian economy for years, such as that, to experience that fate because the economy is inequitable, thus also they. The fact is, and this is the data none of you mentions, and at least you, Mr Dinkic, at your press conferences and performances, because it is not popular for you now, and the Republic Bureau of Statistics has recorded that the decline in industrial production for May 2005 compared to May 2004 is three or five percent. Since this is the situation in Kragujevac where I live, and you have designed some poor programme for Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje of only 800 million dinars, this is the situation for you throughout Serbia. We have a couple of these banks. It is one that operates for many years and has been forced into some kind of integration, at a regional level or slightly wider, with a Serbian economy. It is their further destiny, because if they, and very little, work with the population, are linked to the economy, and the economy is in a desperate situation (not to talk about the Agrobank, the Low Bank, etc., and you know that there are many such banks that are of this narrow regional character), then they will all come under the influence of this law and this particular member. Who will determine whether to conduct an emergency or voluntary liquidation procedure – the NBS, because it has given itself that authority in Article 3. So, instead of really dealing with these things and seeing – especially in the context of the continued management of public finances on your part, and hopefully it will be very short – what kind of general decision you will have when it comes to the insolvent problem of the economy, and you have to deal with it, on the one hand, and those banks that exist, you offer us absolutely pointless laws. You must, within your ministry, and it is not Mr. Angelic, but you must have other persons to help you, some legal expert to help you legally shape this law, someone you will trust. If you trusted such a team of lawyers who wrote you Article 21, then you (and otherwise are) are on an extremely bad path. All this had to pass again by the Republic Secretary of the Secretariat of Law, which pleads to be, apparently, a good lawyer; I don't know how he even let go into the procedure of such a law with this Article 21 and with many before, and especially the one concerning the final decision of the National Bank and the possible initiation of the administrative dispute. All of this had to come again, when it was already in the assembly procedure, before the Legislative Committee. I am deeply interested in where that "legal expert" Aligrudic is, to explain how he could have released this bill and said it was legally possible. There's Mr. Aligrudić, but until he finds a member, which law, it's not that simple. It is impossible to apply in practice, Mr Dinkic, this whole law, and especially this article 21. Since there are now all these appointed colleagues, let them come out nicely and let them say that a member like this may exist, and that Balinian, when the next time he shows up, he'll probably answer this same question.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17081	Please don't disturb the speakers. Since the camera isn't on, so there's no wrong information, the minister isn't on any road, the minister's here, sitting in the first bench. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to continue what the President of the Assembly said and to tell you that 20 minutes ago, I received a phone call that broke out that assumption I made this morning - that Mr. Minister and Mr. Keb were going to negotiate the gig. No, they went to shoot a CD, now I got a call. Ten days ago... (President: Please do not receive an MP, whatever is from your parliamentary group, interference is prohibited. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a dozen days ago I read in the paper that the finance minister was talking to the children in one elementary school (and what time it was, after these four years only children can talk and that the children believe him) told him that he was going to win the Nobel Prize. If there's anything to win the Nobel Prize and if the minister is the creator of this law, then it's certainly the Nobel Prize. I don't know if it's for the economy, not for the economy, Mr. Krasic, I don't know what, but the Nobel Prize is coming. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from Article 1 to Article 32 of this Law, we MPs of the SRS prove, first of all, the objectlessness of this law, because this matter has been legally regulated so far; we are proving that the concentration of government and decision-making is all being poured into one hand and the interpretation of the amendment for one of the previous members, I have shown in a vivid way who will move with my fingers, and who will be the puppets who will move. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment to Article 21. Article 21 reads: "The provisions of the law governing the bankruptcy of companies and the provisions of this law governing bankruptcy are applied accordingly in the case of liquidation, other than provisions governing the trustees' committees, separate trusts, the killing of legal actions, the insurance of deposits and payment orders". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what goes in favour of Mr Dinkic, he is trying to mutilate everything that doesn't go under his hat with article 21. Mr Dinkic, if he is the promoter of this law, if he is the creator of this law, he does not allow these members to apply the provisions of this law. I think that today we have spent from 10.00 hours until now enough time for Serbian citizens, conscious MPs of the ruling majority and MPs of the opposition to convince the failure of this legal project and to convince them to press a red button in the next day, or 20 days, when voted on this law, and not to vote this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17083	It's not on the agenda. The amendments are on the agenda. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, MP Lazar Cavic proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes that the amendment not be accepted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17084	I'm practically going back to where I just stopped at that article 20 and that amendment. I warned you of the illogicality between these two bill proposals. It can be said that it is formally-legal that what is in Article 22 is correct, but if there is a real connection between what is in Articles 20 and 23 and they have in mind those remarks that I made to Article 20, then there is something wrong. In Article 23, you wrote: ′′ If the Agency in the course of the winding-up procedure finds that the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure have been met, this could only be the reason referred to in Article 57j point 11) that the bank's obligations are far greater than its assets, that is, the situation, the conditions for opening the bankruptcy procedure have been met, êit is obliged to submit such a proposal to the National Bank of Serbia. Why the NBS? Why not the court before which the liquidation is being conducted? Why don't you notify the liquidation council? Why the NBS? Under the general bankruptcy rules, if the liquidation process shows that the assets at the disposal of the liquidator cannot settle all claims, or any obligations that exist, then the court is asked to change the decision in bankruptcy and not to open up the liquidation, but to open the bankruptcy proceedings. Why are you now returning in a court procedure to the National Bank of Serbia, which is an administrative body, which is not an organ of judicial importance? How could you let that happen to you? I just warned you about the lack of article 20 that you said the NBS was making decisions about the liquidation. Why do you need a liquidation bigger then? In this Article 22, you shall prescribe that the authorities of the winding-up procedure are larger and liquidating managers. The winding-up is bigger than the judges of the trade court, and the liquidator is the agency. The agency implements the liquidation, establishes that the conditions for bankruptcy are met, returns, during court proceedings, to the National Bank of Serbia. Why? Only one procedure moves on to another procedure in the context of a single procedure conducted for one legal person. The whole procedure is about shutting down one legal person. In all these variations when it comes to bankruptcy, there's only bankruptcy. Nothing more. This provision has issued you that what you have stated in Article 57j, the final position says – a ban on the availability of the bank's assets until the competent court's decision to initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings shows here that the NBS in the liquidation proceedings is looking for a trade court as some pro-forming body, which allegedly participates, which is reportedly under the winding-up procedure, but the entire liquidation procedure is not in the court, but in the National Bank and the Agency, and in that agency where members of the board of directors are, according to the official duties of the finance minister, the minister of business, the vice governor – all the same-minded. There is a closed circle when it comes to the banking sector and insurance companies. It's all under the control of the finance minister. So, there is no respect for the Constitution, there is no respect for the rules of the court procedure, everything is held in one circle, so that, in one other law, there is one provision that if it is annulled in the administrative procedure, in a administrative dispute a solution to the withdrawal of the permit, then a new solution can be made, the consequences come from the day when the first solution was made. So, if the decision was made for the first time in a small party circle to disappear some economic operator, it would fly away. The only question is how painful it's gonna be, but it's gonna be painful. Of course we've also submitted the amendment here, because we think that the existing law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks is far more humane than this and far more constitutional than this proposed set of laws regarding insurance companies and banks. You here have a fundamental flaw, you're liquidating a larger pro form something that once hits the seal at the beginning and something that might eventually not have to hit the seal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17085	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17086	I can't, Mr. President, continue where I left off, because now it's a whole new chapter on voluntary liquidation. Voluntary liquidation is when the subject concludes that there are lost reasons that it exists on the market, and it is not in business dues, it has the property, it has the means to settle all its claims. He simply wants to end more in a quick procedure, and then he goes on to so-called. A voluntary winding-up procedure. It's something by theory. What is interesting here in Article 24, is the pathological need to ask all questions about the National Bank of Serbia. The NBS decides everything, here in a form of consent. She decides by giving consent whether anyone can go into voluntary liquidation or not. I must say that our legal system could not allow for the simple reason that, in principle, voluntary liquidation does not constitute harm for another, third or any other person. She's not disrupting anyone's interest. That's why she's volunteering. I don't know why the NBS would particularly wonder if Raiffeisen would shut down. I personally want to, because by mistake I took one loan, I barely paid it off, every month they sent me some notes for some bills, and when I paid off now they're rudely offering me a credit card, because I broke into some computer. Of course, I asked them to kick me out, never to mention me again, because I can't think of them. They're bigger greeners than any domestic bank. Why would the NBS now be competent to give consent to self-destruct the Raiffeisen Bank? First, it was created by very problematic means, a little bit from Ljubljana, a little bit from Sarajevo, so throw up those funds, but I'm not going to open it, because it's not really this topic. Why should the NBS have to give consent to the decision of the bank authority that says – we go into liquidation, we don't want to do business anymore; simply, the founders consider that they have earned enough to meet all obligations to pay the state tax on the basis of the derived profits, the acquired assets. Why would that be interesting for the NBS now? I agree that there's a condition to say, a mixed bank, where there's part of state capital, private capital, so for that part of state capital to be asked, but certainly not the NBS, but the nominal owner of capital. Probably one who does it on behalf of Serbia, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia. Not what they're illegally pushing the Agency. They even authorised the Agency in one of these laws in this set to resolve it on behalf of the Republic and exercise those founding rights through their people on the board of directors, as well as the bankruptcy manager and liquidator – everything. Now, on voluntary matters, they must seek the consent of the National Bank. I ask the question – what if the National Bank does not give consent? Then you force a bank that's positive to do a negative business to go bankrupt. On what basis do you determine - we will give this bank consent, and we will not give this bank consent? Based on what? Their potential. What potential? You have these foreign banks, they don't have loans to the economy. They do not have consumer loans and payments to abroad, where guaranteed. On a personal case, I said, "I've been skinned." I don't think I'm gonna watch TV anymore, their commercial. Every 16th they send in interest for 15 because the cashier may not have paid or taken some middle course, or took a middle course, but it changed in two days. These are the kind of banks we got, clean green banks. Now they've made their own Lizing Associations, etc. How does someone think that, say, that bank doesn't give its consent to be destroyed voluntarily and abuses the name of a bank from abroad? What's the criterion? Find me a criterion, say: We cannot give; why, for the sake of potential, for this or for that. The state and everyone are protected. She's looking for a voluntary liquidation. She's not troublesome, she's not financial, she's not real. She can settle all her obligations. Even shareholders will withdraw their founding capital, whether in that amount or far greater; it does not, in the end, matter. For each capital withdrawal, the second part of Dinkic's personality comes into force, which is tax policy. Why consent? There is no answer, but something was inserted to keep everything under control, because everything is legal if it is under Dinkic's control. If it's not under his control, it's a disaster, it's a crime, it's the worst. That's the problem. We're not going to support your law because we're trying to get from member to member to member to take off that mask, that dust, that we're going to go naked, that all citizens can see what you're up to and what operations you're using to keep those 3.2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17087	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17088	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today you have indeed heard many arguments in favour of the SRS parliamentary group's position that this law should be withdrawn, i.e. by accepting the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, one member at a time of this bill is deleted. In light of the bill's proposal, in part - an analysis of the effects of the law, it states that this law aims, among other things, to achieve compliance with other laws governing this area, and in order to strengthen citizens' confidence in the overall financial system, which will result in the adoption of legislation that provides for consistent and adequate implementation of these procedures. This is amazing, especially this first part of the sentence, where it says that the law, among other things, wants to achieve compliance with other laws governing this area. We don't know with any laws, no matter what the need for you to agree in this way, as you say, because there are laws that regulate this area. There was no need for a law like this to be passed in particular, which only makes confusion, because you are trying, which is why you must be passing the law, to confuse the public of Serbia. You are now passing a new law and this law will regulate everything that has been unregulated in this area, and you have not answered the question, or the minister has not answered the question of how he has done this job so far, if he claims, in this explanation, that so far there has been no orderly legislation. It means he's been working illegally so far. I think it's good to read Article 30 first. The proposal of this law (a colleague has already quoted it), where he says - bank recovery procedures will be launched until the entry into force of this law will continue under the provisions of the Restitution, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation Act. Therefore, Article 27 states: ′′ If, after the end of the liquidation process, the remaining assets are distributed to the shareholders of the liquidator in agreement with the rights of the shares and at a level proportional to the participation in the share capital of the liquidator. ′′ You say further: ′′The requests of creditors who have not been reported until the day of the division of the liquidation mass will be reconciled, after the winding-up of the liquidation process, by persons whose benefit the rest of the liquidation mass has been paid after the main division, and only to the height of the property taken over. This is so vaguely written that it doesn't mean anything at all and as it is predicted here it can't be applied at all. Once again, we have one inapplicable law, and we have repeatedly observed that, it is the manner of the current government. Also, you don't say what will happen if after the winding-up process doesn't remain the means, then what is the fate of the shareholders. In paragraph 3, the last position of Article 27 states: ′′The application for payment of claims under Article 2 of this Article shall be entrusted against a person whose benefit shall be paid to the rest of the liquidation mass, no later than six months after the winding-up of the liquidation procedure. ′′ Where is the responsibility of the liquidator or greater? Does this member, and especially the last position of this member, not open up a wide possibility of abuse, the possibility that the liquidator and the larger one do the job as they like or as someone tells them, and that then the third parties bear responsibility, which may even be from a legal point of view completely regular in this business. So, it's the DDOR, that's what the minister told us, we have nothing to invent, and when this privatisation happens, and when everything that's predicted for the DDOR happens, then it's going to be nice to say -- it's not wrong, it's not bigger, it's not the minister, it's not the bankruptcy manager, it's the third person. So this is an additional argument, besides everything we Serbian have been talking about all day. Here, now the minister is there, although he is not involved in the work, so I urge him to withdraw this law. If he doesn't want it, then I call on the MPs to vote on our amendments in the day of voting, because our amendments say we don't need this law. Accept these amendments and get caught up in some serious business, because a lot more serious is standing before us, first of all, all those laws you pulled out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17089	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29, which reads - insurance companies' winding-up procedures are to be initiated under the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy or liquidation and winding-up procedures under the provisions of the Business Society Act will continue under the provisions of this law. This last position states: ′′If the NBS has withdrawn a licence to carry out insurance operations to the insurance company and the competent court has not reached a solution to the opening of a bankruptcy procedure by the time this law enters into force, that is to say, the insolvency proceedings and the winding-up proceedings of the insurance company shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law. ′′ Since we have a situation that we have already had laws in the current bankruptcy proceedings that have laid down bankruptcy proceedings, I think this law is unnecessary. The amendment deletes Article 29 for the reason that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted amendments for erasure, because the very word erasure means that when something is deleted, then it should be rewritten or no more written. So let us go back to just one finding where situations like this occurred and which led to the situation of bankruptcy. By declaring the Republic of Serbia a high-risk country, we have come into a situation, through bankruptcy proceedings, to sell companies at cheap quotas, and to introduce banks from abroad that today lend loans with very unfavourable interest. A nation that is in need of a loan to survive or a business that is forced to raise credit with very unfavourable interest returns these loans and cannot reach the developmental part that should therefore, when the credit is raised, be able to make progress on the firm and be eligible in that developmental part and that it can achieve its sustainability that it has started and completed. Therefore, I think that this whole law that is proposed is unnecessary and Article 29 very precisely explains here that the current bankruptcy proceedings have been carried out under some laws and that this law is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-05-0.u17091	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, by searching the details of the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations. Thank you and pleasant. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, which is more than one third of the MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Goran Knezevic and Miroslav Markicevic. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and Other FINISH ORGANISATIONS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Dragoljub Stamenković and Milovan Radovanovic, and the Finance Committee. You have received notice from the following MPs to withdraw the amendments, namely: Milan Veselinović on Article 2, Miljko Četrović on Article 2, Rodoljub Gačević on Article 3, Tomislav Penezić on Article 4, Zlatan Jovanovic on Article 5, Milan Stevović on Article 6, Milan Škrbić on Article 7, Radiša Ilic on Article 8, Zoran Antic on Article 9, Ivan Radić on Article 10, Branislav Stevanović on Article 11 and Sulejman Spaho on Article 13. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
