ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14674	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miodrag Djidić, Milan Nikolic, Suzana Grubjesic and Sava Urosevic. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the review of the amendment to Article 11. The bill, submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately we don't have a chance today to talk about the government's work, but we have to point to another deception, which is being served by the government through the bill, to clarify and demonstrate all malice and indifference in the work of the current government and the assembly majority. This bill is the best example of how a large number of citizens are deceived, shows that the legal solutions, which unfortunately we have been making for a year now, which are often inadmissible in practice, we are creating only one marketing basis, based on which the government is trying to convince citizens that it is going towards some improvement for all of them. Unfortunately, this law is not such a law. What this law lacks is what is fundamental -- to allow citizens access to all documents on the basis of which they could exercise their right. It's not in this law and it's one of the serious faults. This law is also not in line with the Privatisation Act, because it did not allow the transfer of property to be suspended, at least in the privatisation process, because it would be perfectly normal if you decided to return the property to the citizens of Serbia. What was expected and what was needed for citizens, and there are some 300,000 who expect a return of property somewhere, is the adoption of a law on restitution and denationalisation. It would be some security if you had good intentions when it comes to this law. I have the impression that the weaker the government is, the worse the economic situation, the more dissatisfied the citizens, the more the government goes to citizens with some one-time solutions, such as some legislative proposals, strategies, some plans that aim to create a marketing picture of the government's success. In addition to this law, there is currently a current employment strategy, where several lists of citizens are promised between five and 10,000 euros, which is a completely unserious approach; even to those serious citizens who intend to invest seriously in their work do not allow, with these requirements, to hand over some elaborates or business plans, which would show that you are seriously considering the problem of employment. Unfortunately, it comes out with laws like this that aim to fill out newspaper columns. I think it's time for this law to end this government's behavior. On the one hand, we have interested citizens, citizens' associations that are against this law; the SRS is against the deception and of a kind of cowardice, which the government's representatives refer to citizens; I believe that a sufficient part of the position is not satisfied with this legislative proposal. I think it's now a chance that, by accepting this amendment, we will literally repeal this law and tell the citizens in person what we think of their demands. The Serbian Radical Party has declared itself, but I think it is and I am convinced that the government's representatives are not, so the new bill will show more clearly to citizens, who demand the return of property, what they can expect from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14676	Thank you. The word is Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment to article 11, which was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. It is an amendment requiring the removal of Article 11. I must say that this amendment is also in line with all the amendments we have tabled to this bill. We have to say that the law is inconsistencies and I'll explain the obvious case. Article 10 of this law provides that churches and religious communities will be able to look for a solution under this law later on, means a subsequent route. There's inconsistencies, because we think the church had properly run books.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14678	It is an amendment to Article 11 of the final decree.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14679	It is clear that the amendment to Article 11, but the inconsistency of the whole law is examined in Article 10. I must stress that, the churches can return assets that are not problematic, there are clearly run books, and that doesn't seem to be; what you can return will be arranged by subsequent law. That's the point. If you had the aim of a nominal increase in the law, which is what you want to brag about, that tomorrow you have the number of laws that can't be implemented in practice, it's the form, not the essence, I have to inform you that the Serbian Radical Party simply won't participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14680	Are there any more speakers on this amendment? The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Moma Markovic to article 11. The draft law on the application and registration of the seized property would have to be adopted, and therefore you would be saved from the suffering. This call law that doesn't mean anything wouldn't even come into effect. I've already said in my previous address that this was your intention to hire this huge administration that doesn't do anything. Here, let me give you an example of such bad work. Namely, I'll read you just what the answer to the so-called request looks like. The People's Office of the President of the Republic. A citizen complained of irregularities in his collective work, where he was personally damaged by the party. He regularly delivered all the papers and documents, which clearly showed that he was right, and there was only supposed to be an appropriate person i.e. The director of the facility, which was said by the G17 Plus, draws attention to the wrong done to the worker, and that his problem should be resolved positively. And here's how the head of the department, Zorica Gruevski, from this National Office, suits him: "Dear sir, on the request you made to the People's Office of the President of the Republic, we inform you that we have considered your request in detail (see carefully) and understand the seriousness of the problem you have pointed out to us. All of faith, they understood the problem. )" "By reason of your and similar demands of citizens, we have launched an initiative to give all institutions a timely and responsible response to the objections and demands of citizens who address them. (You see, they launched an initiative to give all institutions responsible answers to objections. Well, by the way, they're not gonna answer irresponsiblely. ) The National Office in its daily work also seeks to influence competent institutions in order to approach citizens’ problems more effectively. "They seek to influence the competent institutions, but what you will do is not listen to them, but work according to their own, so this citizen cannot exercise his rights that normally belong to him under the applicable law. And in the end, it is said: "We sincerely thank you for your trust. "Well, you see, the problem solved, there's nothing. They discussed it in detail, understood, launched an initiative for competent institutions to respond responsibly to citizens' demands in order to approach problems more effectively. And what's settled here? Nothing! The citizen did not exercise his right, and tomorrow some work analysis of the National Office will likely announce that all the problems and complaints of the citizens have been successfully solved. One of the MPs said to cut this "empty story" and ask if this is the response from the National Office where nothing concrete is said? That is why I strongly recommend that you adopt this amendment and get rid of such a bad proposal for a law on the application and registration of confiscated property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14682	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Zoran Krasic did not speak about the amendments, but used the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure and give a replica during yesterday, I examined the stenogram. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14683	It is perfectly normal, if the bill has 11 members and 10 members are proposed to be deleted, to propose eradicating the 11th member, regardless of the fact that the law enters into force on the eighth day of publication. These experts who expect the constructiveness of each amendment were likely to expect us to add to the amendment words -- provided there were papers to publish the law, or if there are no papers, then the entry into force of this law will be announced by text messages via Erickson's phone. Of course we don't want to write such amendments. Of course we're asking that, according to your terminology, the very idea that someone should report to record something that has been reported and recorded already. Of course, this amendment is necessary to remove a mask first. As the government of the Republic of Serbia shakes up a corruption affair, so why not tell international proportions, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes such a pointless law. On behalf of the government, the law should defend the absent Mladjan Dinkic, and is replaced by a rather absent Parivodic. We have been discussing a serious legislative project by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for days, and no one from the government has come to say a good word about their proposal. That's the problem. We should be concerned about all of us sitting in this room. This government makes it clear to us this way, we've thrown away the bone, and you're gnawing it, and we're finishing it, so whether it's Sonny-Erikson, Ericson or some other firm, it doesn't matter. There's an affair going on, the Assembly is dealing with some peripheral affairs. Of course the one who proposed this law knows that this law is inadmissible. Of course he knows he's technically unspeakable, unspeakable, and there's no way to act under this law. Of course, whoever came up with this concept did not go to the public of the Republic of Serbia to disclose the information that this property is about, what the value of this property is, and what is being reported should be returned. How many years will it take to get back? How much is this going to cost the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia? If there is no material and financial basis for such a law, then it is illusory to discuss this law. For the public, it must be said, the Law on Planning and Construction foresees a form of restitution of some property, and when it comes to city building land above all. The housing law also foresees the possibility of restitution when it comes to protected housing. Ten years ago, there was a law that returned land to former owners. We have a regulation that prevents the alienation of that property in the privatisation process. We have the Law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, with the great powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have the practice of local self-government, that now the tenants of some space that had previously been taken away are heirs, and why not tell the previous owners of that space. It means that something was done in the legal regulations in the Republic of Serbia. What is it that the government wants with this bill? He wants to cover up corruption affairs right now, entertaining both the audience and the MPs, and at this point, peripheral matters. Today, when citizens of the Republic of Serbia are thinking about whether to take away someone who has wrongly acquired a great fortune over the past 10-15 years – those who drive jeeps and who have several villas of 500-600 square meters, those who bought for cheap money large businesses and left people without a job – when they cry for elementary justice, now some injustices from 60 years ago are rectified, causing a new injustice, even in hints. This government has lost focus on time, place and space. This government has a mission to entertain us until the moment she tells us: we no longer have a state, and now it's democratic for us to resign and leave, so you who come after us take care of what you find and what you will be able to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14684	Time. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is there anything else he wants to say about this amendment? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing this bill for seven days. Indeed, it is excessive that anything we as SRS MPs should add, if the representatives of yesterday's position, the Secretary-General of the SPS, as well as the representatives of the SPO-NS, said that this law is not adequate and that there is absolutely no point in voting for such a law. No matter what family I belonged to after the war was taken from the property and whose great-grandfather went to the U.S., and unfortunately died there, although the large property was taken away, even in the 1970s and my parents took away property, i.e. places in Cetitska Street No. 28, as illegally acquired, because at that time the place was issued, and the private property was banned, and at that time the woman who deals with hairstyle work, and who is sitting in that place today, who was married to Shipara, and because of that time, because of brotherhood and unity, it was appropriate to take away the property of my parents in the 1970s. And regardless of these personal interests and prejudices as to how certain laws should be dealt with, representatives of the SRS do not look at their own personal interests, but look at the general interests, and if we know that each Serbian family has 0.9 children per family, that each Shipage family has almost seven children per family, should we allow this bill to enable more than 500,000 folks to return to Vojvodina and allow us to be a national minority in our own country again, but in 70 years' time, to be a national minority. For that very reason, and because of what the representatives of the position have said, we believe that this bill, which is only theoretically and practically nothing, makes it impossible for anyone to come to their property, to have heirs come to their property. No matter what good wishes they are and what a marketing performance it is, we believe that it is indeed high time and that MPs are voting against such a law. Because if it is only theoretically and it is not practical, and if it offers nothing, and what you have suggested means that more citizens of Serbia will have consequences than convenience, we believe that this member of the law is inadequate and that the whole law should be deleted, i.e. MPs vote against such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-26-0.u14686	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since there are currently no conditions to move to the 9th item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, we have a holiday to attend, the extension of this session will be 10 May at 10.00 hours. I want everybody's happy holidays, especially I want a happy Easter, and I hope these holidays will help us to keep our senses calm and to continue our session on May 10th, in the interest of the citizens who chose us. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 110 MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Milankov and Esad Judževic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act – you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any MP group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one former SRS MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. At the same time, I would like to inform you that for this point there are two authorised MPs, in front of the DSS Milan Dimitrijevic, in front of the SPS Zivodarka Dacin. Does the proposer's representative, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, want a word? Here you go.
