ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-23-0.u18282	Mr. President, I'm advocating an injury to article 140. The Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure, which regulates the beginning of the debate in particular. Before that, I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't give me a word about hurting the Rules of Procedure when I answered at the morning meeting. I don't know why. I don't know if Members of the ruling majority were in such a hurry to go on vacation that we couldn't take two or three minutes to say what I'm about to say – I say this morning. I have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, and each of the 250 members of this Parliament, to get my word as soon as I ask for it, and you, although you have seen it three times, have refused to give it to me in a trendy manner, wanting to end up back and forth the first part, which I will now explain my position that it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to leave all of this for the afternoon. To move on to what I think is also a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course this Rules of Procedure says that the working day in the Assembly starts at 10.00 in the morning and ends at 1800 hours in the afternoon. And this Rules of Procedure has been governed by your right to make certain adjustments in that working time, but it is quite clear that Article 3 of our 140th Rules of Procedure, which says that it cannot begin to search the details until 24 hours or 24 hours after the search is completed in principle. This is about a session under investigation about the bill. When the draft law is on the agenda, there are several phases in the session. So there are several preparatory actions before they move to the agenda, which are formally clearly prescribed by this Rules of Procedure. Then, you or whoever changes you when he presides, opens a search in principle. There's a search in detail, there's a day to vote. Mr. President, please explain to the parliament and the public of Serbia at which stage this session was held between 10.00 hours today or if you started a little later, 10.00 and a few minutes, and this moment. We weren't in the law-searching phase in principle and we weren't in the law-searching phase in particular. As far as I know, you haven't scheduled a voting day yet, and as far as I know, this session has been started in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because this assembly was in an impossible situation between 10.00 a.m. and a few moments ago, until we began to search the law in detail. It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and of course, I will ask that parliament make its statement. There is a majority in this congregation, the majority can make any decision they want. He can, Mr. President, make a decision that you don't have a beard and you've never had one. It can make a decision that I have no beard and I have never had it, but it will remain written in the annals of this assembly that you have in an obvious way, harshly and tendedly, because of my truly incomprehensible motives for a Parliament president, so harshly violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-23-0.u18283	I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to make an explanation. So, exactly as you have stated, article 100 speaks about how a word is given about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and it is certainly not broken, because attitude 1 reads: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker". Today at 10 pm, when we are according to the Rules of Procedure, because as you have reminded – The Assembly works from 10.00 to 18.00 hours, so at the beginning it is determined to start working day, you have requested word by the Rules of Procedure and you can check in the stenogram. From this place I said, please finish the presentation. When the conditions were met, so immediately after the final presentation, you got the word. There were no speakers between you and me, as you can see. So I had to stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly. When it comes to Article 140(4), it reads: "From the completed principled search to the opening of the draft law, it must be at least 24 hours." Yesterday at 3:14 p.m., I completed a search in principle, informed that the Assembly will be working today from 10.00 p.m. The assembly has been working since 10.00 hours today, and at the beginning, I also informed by the Rules of Procedure that this member must be respected and that until the search opens, it must be 24 hours. At exactly 3:16 p.m., I opened a search in detail. So, the conditions of the Rules of Procedure have been met, 24 hours have passed. We will always abide by the law and it will apply to all. In this particular case, in the work of this assembly, we will stick to the Rules of Procedure. Especially in the situation where we are today, that it has been exactly two years since someone tried to violate the Rules of Procedure of this assembly and break the law and steal citizens' votes. We will not allow it, but we will only do it by law and by the Rules of Procedure. In the same way, and now according to the Rules of Procedure, I am giving a break, to obtain an opinion, until 22 August at 10.05 p.m. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon, I hope you've rested well and I see that you've wished for each other and that the contacts are noisy. We've got a big job coming up this fall. I hope you've had a really good rest. We continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 151 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, which is why we have a condition for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Slobodan Lalovic. We're continuing our work on the agenda. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held a session on 23 July 2005 in detail on the single item of the agenda of this session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the establishment of a Public Enterprise for Research, Production, Processing and Transport of Oil and Natural Gas. I would also like to remind you that after the opening of the draft law in particular, I have set a break until today, on 22 August 2005, to obtain additional opinions. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the importance of the Law on the founding of public enterprise for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas (single) to Article 1 of the amendment by Parliament of the People Dušan Petrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. He's got a word... What can I do for you, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, according to the Rules of Procedure, before that. Here you go, Mrs. Stojcic.
