ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14179	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 141 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Vojkan Tomic, Miroslav Jankovic, Dejan Rajčić, Velimir Stanojevic and Išpanović Istvan. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Milorad Buhi, elected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Milorad Buhi. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. You received a notice from the DSS that MP Milutin Pesic passed away on 5 April 2005 and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88 paragraph 8. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament finds the end of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(1), point 8. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Milutin Pesic, elected from the election list DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his death, on 5 April 2005. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Application and Evident OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION (resumption in principle) Instead of Boško Ristić, as announced, has a National MP, Slobodan Vučković, and let the MP Nikola Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law could be called a divine guide against the needs of return of property and restitution, denationalisation, etc. He could be called a divine guide because he doesn't bring anything, he doesn't solve anything. However, it hurts a lot, because people have waited 60 years and it is recognised to them that 60 years of their property should remain their property, but this law establishes one deadline, in my opinion, quite unfounded, arbitrary and cynical, for a year, that whoever applies, this one applies within a year, otherwise loses the right to compensation and to regain his property. It's one thing that's completely incomprehensible, when it's already said that private property is uncut and when it's been uncut for 60 years, why now would it be one pre-exclusive period of one year. It's absolutely not understandable, nor acceptable. Secondly, this law does not address the main issue that nationalised assets, under which I mean all other types of confiscation, cannot be sold further. That's a very important question. I appreciate what Mr. Minister said here that perhaps the government will intervene for a moment, realize that this should be done, but that seems to me to be what's in the communist assembly. I was a member of these congregations, as a non-partisan, so when I propose something that could be adopted, then a minister or an authorised representative of the government comes out and says, you know, let's make a working conclusion that this issue will be settled later. The issue is being resolved by the law on denationalisation right now or will not be resolved at all. The next thing that matters, it is to introduce the obligation of state authorities that have data on the property of individuals and the property of individuals in former legal entities who have their followers, to give data to natural persons whose property has been taken from those legal entities. I'll give you an example. People have property, they had property in shares of the Trade Fund or they had shares of the National Bank. What if the National Bank won't give them confirmation that they had those shares? She'd have to do it. What is extremely incomprehensible is that it is imposed on former owners or their families, their successors to bring a copy of the property confiscation act or other material evidence. Gentlemen, Mr. Minister, it's been 60 years, material evidence may not be available, but in one barbarina, in one Triestenik, and in Belgrade, it is known what belonged to whom. It has to be solved in a certain way, both through witnesses and in other ways, if we really want to solve it. The third thing that is incomprehensible is whether these terms of Article 5 are cumulative, and they seem to be cumulative, and that is a very important question, because whoever does not file an application within a year, he loses the right to compensation and restitution, which is totally unacceptable. There must be one, if you really want this law, some broader framework of what a man should report, what he thinks is his, which proves according to the possibilities, and not so explicitly determines that there must be some material evidence. There's no material evidence in our people, no evidence of what happened five years ago, let alone... After all, let me remind you, and the tax administration doesn't prosecute anyone after five years, because it's out of date. What is further incomprehensible is that it is not provided in this law that he who reports his confiscated property will mark the value of that property. Please, it is said that the basic reason for the law being passed is to establish records, so that the state can see if it will be able, how it will be able to do so. If there is no value, how will the state be able to do so, if the one whose property is not marked "my property today is worth 100,000 euros, according to my assessment etc.". Without it, this absolutely doesn't make sense, and then this law looks by its own action, as I said, as a divine guide. I want to point out some more things, they're a bit of a political nature. This is about compensation for those persons who have been designated as public enemies in the past, or at least as class enemies, who have lost their freedom because of their property, because it is known that during the nationalization, a large number of businessmen have been arrested to make nationalisation easier. They were burned on a beggar stick, they were set no pensions, their children were treated differently from other children. I know people had to go to Ljubljana to study, because they couldn't enroll here if their father was a respected businessman, but they went to Ljubljana or Zagreb to study, because there was no place for them here. This is about moral issues. You know, if it's said to return this property and it's a moral, political question and a democratic question, it's one of those categories that, if we're in order never to have a hate speech between us again, never to show up killing each other, calculating, etc., then this law has that purpose, and it should have. But he doesn't have it, and I guess he's going to have some future law on denationalization, so it never happens again that someone's legally acquired property is being taken away. It has the same meaning. This is about oppression, and it's supposed to be about oppression, an economic past that's brought us into the state we're in right now. That is why complete restitution is needed. You know, we're proud as a people of our military history, of our political history, and we forget that the people also have their own economic history, and that the holders of this economic history are our businessmen who created the economic background and the basis of this society. And those societies that were developing in a modern way, which was in Europe when national currency was worth something. And if we hadn't taken away these people's assets and if they could have increased it, we would never have come to this position today to be afraid that someone would give us a feasibility study, gentlemen. We would have been in Europe, 60 years ago, and in time, we would have been in the European Union and still the European Economic Community. So this is about historical issues, the kind of attitude we're going to have not only in relation to yesterday, but in relation to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14181	The messenger of the people is Nikola Milosevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14182	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, I don't think we're going to be dissuasive if we remember once again that the incomparability of private property is the mark of every democratically decorated state. Not only because it is one of the basic human rights, but because private property represents a dam by trying to usurp political power. It will not be by chance that the non-democracy regimes were just trying to lift the private property completely or limit it, because without private property, i.e. The economic background doesn't have much chance of political rebellion. Similarly, we should not forget that the private property is a prerequisite for true economic efficiency, and even the government of communist China has realized that if it does not open up a space for economic activity it will not be able to feed its many people, which now accounts for about a billion and 300 million inhabitants. I also don't think it would be a waste to remember that three past political regimes have treated the institution of private property. First, the Joseph Broz regime. As is known, one of the first measures of the regime was so called. Nationalization, which is a nice name for an ugly thing. The right definition for so-called. Nationalisation would be the illegal confiscation of legally acquired assets by violent means. For such a procedure, Josip Broz and his associates had adequate ideological support, primarily in the capital of Karl Marks, where there is one place, is now forgotten, and which is said to be the house of the last hour of capitalist exploitation, the expropriators are exploited. Explosion here is the key word, that's actually what's going to be called nationalization later on. So it's exactly what violently subtracting legally acquired assets by revolutionary means. As the relationship to private property seemed in practice at that time, let us show one example. When Joseph Broz and his unit entered the White House, they began to bring out cases of valuables from the basement, which, we say, the Nazis did not touch. As a close associate of Joseph Broz who was present here testified, when they opened the first box, there was a flashing cigarette from him, and a man told Joseph Broz, these tabs were gilded. Broz, who understands gold well, and I guess that's the only thing he understands, says, no, no, that's gold. He grabs one of his cigarette cases, he puts it in his partner's hand and says, "Take it." This man, who had illusions about so-called. Nationalization, he told him, no, Comrade Tito, we'll do it at the National Bank. And Tito says, "Let the National Bank go now, take it." Other information, easily verifiable. I'd like you to find time to go to the White Court and look at the chapel of the White Court. You will see there the fresco of Jesus Christ and at the very head of a bullet trail, which one of Joseph Broz's close associates fired into that fresco. I know it can be interpreted, and it is, as an act of political fanaticism, but it's also an act that shows what the relationship to private property was like. That fresco, the one that fired it didn't, of course, paint it, he didn't build the White Court, he didn't build that chapel. There has been no significant change compared to private property when Slobodan Milosevic came to power. One example from that time. The then assembly passed a law on the return of property to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Milosevic used his constitutional right to return the law to a re-determination, but past the constitution, which predicted that the assembly was required to then consider its decision at the next session. The congregation never did that. Understandable and why. Because the official then ruled that it would be easier to deal with the Serbian Orthodox Church if it did not return its great possession. Among the Orthodox bishops, a voice was released that it was not convenient for the Serbian Orthodox Church to return the property, because it would then have to return to the Catholic Church. And why don't you come back, the law is the same for everyone. So, both the Orthodox, and the Catholic Church and the Islamic community anyway. I want to draw your attention that even the regime that came after October 5th did not significantly change its relationship to private property. Here, not so far from today's Assembly, where that Rajic complex, Rajic Street, is on the street, you will see and see a board that says that the investor is a subsidiary of an Israeli company. Let me draw your attention to some information that is probably unknown to you, which is related to this famous construction. First, the branch of the Israeli company was the only one to appear in a construction competition in the area. She entered the investment, which amounts to over $100 million, and in the account of these famous branches there are, believe it or not, only 2.5 thousand dollars, which was quite accurate. Secondly, this company, which was a co-investor, becomes an investor, and those who hold power at that time in this city, announce that this is the land, where the construction is going to be done, an undeveloped building space, which is not true at all. On this same land are the foundations of earlier buildings, residential buildings, and one of them was the foundation on which the hotel "Serbian Crown" was built, which in 1867 the President of the Cassation Court, Stojan Veljkovic, built, to make the same hotel refurbished in the early twentieth century by the greats of Serbian architecture, Nikola Nestorovic. And for this and so refurbished hotel says the impression of our architecture, Mihajlo Mitrovica, who himself is a great master of construction skills, that he was the jewel of the Serbian capital, the "classicist beauty" of ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there is a legitimate heir to the "Serbian Crown" and the whole space, and he is called Bogdan Veljković. Bogdan Veljkovic, whose intention was to rebuild the same building on the basis of the collapsed hotel, according to Nikola Nestorovic. And just, you see, this legitimate, legitimate owner has been disabled by such an illegal operation to carry out his intention in action. Mihajlo Mitrovic, who I have already quoted, says there is no honorable Serbian architect who would accept the job that, under such conditions, builds something new and quite different on the basis of the "Serbian Crown". Ladies and gentlemen, I took the example of Bogdan Veljkovic because he is, in some ways, symbolic, and also for the relationship of the new government towards the institution, not only of private property, but also of the Serbian architectural tradition. I would like to draw your attention to Mr. Veljkovic's rightful successor to the so-called heir. Paviliona Veljkovic, who has been chaired by the so-called president for years. Centre for Cultural Decontamination, you know the already famous Borka Pavicevic. Exactly. You see, gentlemen, Borka Pavicevic, who chose the word decontamination for that center, a word stronger than deratiation, is not for her not even political opponents, not rats, nor cockroaches, but a poison to be decontaminated. The same Borka Pavicevic, who is allegedly fighting for human rights, understands under this fight against Serbian nationalism, so the table in the usurped building, owned by Bogdan Veljkovic, is trampling out so basic European law, the right to so-called. the integrity of private property. I was present when the leader of this famous centre at the Yugoslav-Austrian conference, held at the Recitorate, entered to give one speech from only one sentence. The speech reads like this: "As long as fascism in Serbia. "Argument: someone has written the word "Face" on the walls of the Rectorate. So for such ideological and political activity in a building that does not belong to the head of the centre, she had the approval of all previous authorities in this country. Let me give you just one more example of what I want to show you. I'd like you to find time to stop by the University Library in Belgrade and climb where the professor's reading room is. You'll see a brass board that says "Austrian Library," and below, in the original "Bribliothek". This space of the University Library, which was built out of the foundations of Carnegie's office, the previous government gave to the Austrian Government, and the Austrian Government, where it did not invest any of its filer or pfenig, pointed out this brass board and, if you would allow me to say so, the word of the Austrian Library with Latin, not Cyrillic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you don't know that, for the Austrian government, a Serb in Austria could refuse a subpoena if it was sent to him in Latin. This same Austrian government in this country, which is not owned by Austria, and as if it were, goes beyond the basic national sense of this people, so it doesn't find it appropriate even to print the Cyrillic letters of the Austrian Library. Now I wonder, since we're already thinking about the bill, how all these, not only pathetically speaking, historic injustices, all these harsh wrongs about fundamental human rights are going to be corrected and whether this is even possible by the proposal that's here on the agenda. We were able to hear Mr. Matic's statement and personally agree with his objections. I believe that the 2002 Democratic Party of Serbia proposal was certainly more likely. And on my part, I would like to add that it would be necessary, if this first step should mean something, legally prohibiting any further sale of unlawfully held or seized property. If this is not done, and if there is not soon a law which will bring back what is unjustly and unlawfully taken away, and what is called denationalisation, not quite accurate and not quite accurate, then I am afraid that first step will not be of great benefit either. But for now, it's the only step we have, and I think there's only one good old saying left for us, which says the longest time begins with the first step.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14183	The People's MP, Verica Radeta, has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Ćirković.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this law on reporting and recording seized property is a unique case in the history of parliamentaryism. A representative of the government, the minister who spoke on behalf of the government about the law, made a series of negative assessments on this proposal. All the MPs who spoke, whether from the opposition or the coalition majority, all had a negative attitude towards this law. I really wonder why we're even discussing this when it's impossible to get the impression that one MP is going to vote for this law or, if they are, they're going to vote for something they obviously don't like and a law that they think is not a good solution. Of course, we Serbian radicals understand why this law was on the agenda. Because you from the ruling majority in the election campaigns promised that only you should come to power and return all unjustly seized property to the citizens of Serbia. That's why this law is a fantastic con of voters who voted for you, because you promised them the return of the seized property, because if it were really your intention, then you would go to the National Assembly, or the Government would go to the National Assembly with a proposal for a law on denationalisation and return of property, whatever you want to call it, and then, under that law, it could be contained what you envisioned as a special law, and even this could be the subject of some sublegal act, which would be required to be brought under that possible law on denationalisation. In the light of this law, among other things, you say that property-legal regulations, were passed in the first years of the construction of a socialist society, were part of the so-called so-called so-called socialist society. revolutionary legislation, and you, in fact, ever since you've been in power, have shown that you're creating a party state, that you're by post-revolutionary methods taking away or trying to take away property. In the Penal Code, you have provided for the confiscation, or confiscation of property, to threaten the Hague indictees, on the one hand you swear that private property is sacred, and on the other hand you threaten the Hague indictees that you will freeze them, block them, take away property, I don't know what you're not already doing. You're taking pensions from the Hague indictees, like they're second-class citizens. I guess the law applies equally to all citizens and citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, we in the SRS have never hidden our position and in all election campaigns, we have said, no matter how many citizens of Serbia who do not like it, that we will never pass a law on denationalisation. Of course, not because it is our whim, but because it is impossible for one authority to correct the injustices of another authority. The fact is that there have been historical injustices, the fact is that there has been no confiscation of property without legal basis, but there has been a legal basis, so I'm asking you what will happen when some other government comes after you and says - what these confiscated now has to get the state back. Do you think you can finally put this country on its feet in any way? Do you think once that Serbian citizens should really have legal certainty, to believe in the state, to believe in state institutions? If we pass laws like this, then there's nothing from institutions, nor from the legal order, nor from the rule of law. Why don't we also think we shouldn't pass that law on denationalisation? Because there is, the lawyers know it well, the general period of limitations right, it's 20 years. It's been 20 years. Moreover, the injustices that were indeed taking place at the time that this property was taken away were not just about taking away property. Unfortunately, there were also many people killed who opposed such moves by the then state. In what way would you, if you brought in, and apparently did not pass that law, damage the heirs of these and such people? Of course, you know all this and you all know that such a law can neither be passed nor can be applied. That's why you resorted to one insidious way, because you know there's going to be an extraordinary parliamentary election soon, so you can tell the citizens again -- well, we haven't been able to get your property back, but we're on our way, we've passed a law where we're going to be records, to record your assets, so maybe one day we'll give it back to you. However, if you wanted to pass such a law, then this law that you have proposed today, which we are discussing today, could not possibly be as it is in the government's proposal. You are already saying in Article 1 that this law regulates the registration and registration of assets seized without a market value or fair compensation. What are your criteria, who's to say what's a fair fee? If there was no fee, then it wasn't, but here it stands, and "if it wasn't a fair fee." Then you set the date on March 9, 1945. Why that date, why not after that, why not before that? Just because of this date, I know why he's here, instead of the minister who was supposed to represent this law, the minister of economic relations with abroad. Of course, because of the folksdojchers, who already come to Banata and pick up their houses, break windows, if you didn't know what was going on on in the field of people living in these so-called so-called houses. Their houses. Furthermore, you have provided for in Article 3 of the Republic Directorate for the Property of Jurisdiction which the Republic's Directorate does not have under the law which regulates the jurisdiction of the Republic's property. The question is what will happen, let's say, if the desert procedure isn't completed, how will these heirs be legitimately legitimated to register these seized assets? This deadline until June 30th, which you left behind, also raises the question of how the property will once be taken away, the off-book property of those former owners. Of course, we'll talk about the amendment on all these issues. For example, it's a very interesting member of the 10th that says, "returning taken from property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law." And you didn't say when the churches and religious communities would register that property. On the other hand, this law provides for the recording of the property of the natural persons, and you do not foresee the adoption of a law to return those assets. Very interestingly, in addition to this law we have - the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia - a form for the application of the seized property. How can you give us a form when you haven't even got the law yet, we still don't know if it's going to be the Republic Property Directorate. You've really done this to the hill. Fellow MPs, please don't do this to us, don't vote for a law that's inadmissible, don't vote for a law that you all said a lot of bad. Don't, because you know that after the next parliamentary elections, we will be the government in Serbia, just because you can ask us why we don't apply this law that you know is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14185	The word is made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the draft law on the application and registration of seized property is one text, I agree with Mr. Minister, who simply does not delight, but what is certain, and does not harm. He's actually, to be honest, if I were to speak neutrally as an analyst, it's not the law. This is one sublegal act or regulation that precedes some law. For this reason, this law, which will be adopted by the parliamentary majority, is applicable, for the simple reason that it only determines the extent of the seized property. Former owners are asking the state to deprive them or some of the future owners, etc. Therefore, this method of record is quite possible. For that reason, this law has its own justification. In order for this authority, or those who carry out the denationalisation, to compensate former owners, we need to determine the extent of that debt, which is the type of debt, the way and the modus of how it will be done. No denationalisation, by nature of things, can be absolutely fair, but it can seek that goal to be even fair. Therefore, former owners will be compensated by a future law. Therefore, there are no criticisms of the opposition that this law is inadmissible. He is applicable, but he could've done it without him. The government's motive to bring it is to provide complete records of debts standing as ballast in front of this country. Historically, it can be explained about dates. However, on 9 March 1945, the then revolutionary government passed a law suspending all legal provisions that had been passed before 6 April, as well as those passed at the time of the occupation government. From then to the election for the Constitution on November 11th, it became the legal lawless state in Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia. It existed because the previous legal order was put outside the law, and the new one had not yet come to life. So, if we're talking about March 9th, I know it makes someone uncomfortable associations on March 9, 1991, to me on the contrary, I'm proud of March 9, 1991, and I'm sad about March 9, 1945. When we talk about deadlines, we can settle, but those who are against the law and think that its adoption is unnecessary, which is why it talks about deadlines, if you think such laws are harmful, if you're saying that nationalization is a done deal, that all deadlines have expired, which is why it talks about deadlines, how the period of application is delayed. If you were to go this far and use your logic like this, I'm afraid you might not mention the Battle of Mary, which is really too long. (President: Mr. Cirkovic, time is up. ) Therefore, for those political options that are against the adoption of the law on the denationalisation of deadlines do not play any role. If you're up for a story on deadlines, then you're up for a story on the law. But you obviously don't like it. Also, the remark was why it was only a year before the damaged owners could report their seized property. We find that deadline reasonable. There may be something missing from this law - that the legislator undertakes that within a certain period of time, following the application of this law, a law on denationalisation and restructuring will be passed. (President: Mr. Cirkovic, you only had three minutes. Please bring the end. () Of course, it's missed. If we did that, then we'd be serious. I agree with Mr. Minister, once this law has been passed, a full ban should be placed on the right to dispose of the property that is disputed. So that property must not be alienated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Serbian democratic opposition in the genealogy of its creation and development has advocated the unjustly seized property and nationalization that has been carried out...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14187	Mr. Cirkovic, you've been over the clock for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14188	After the application of revolutionary laws, this historical injustice must be corrected. This law is an insight into correction, it is not sufficient, therefore, a condition, it is only a prerequisite to pass some other law. The failure of this law is that these deadlines have not been set tighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14189	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let MP Mika Vlaovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are expected to be here at least seriously. A man who doesn't even know how to discuss these things. I remember, a month and a half ago, that same MP, not to mention his name, said Mongolia would enter the European Union before us. He forgot that Mongolia is in Asia, and it's not in Europe. I do not feel the lack of the fact that Mladjan Dinkic, as a government rapporteur, is not sitting here, a man went to Washington and it is no problem that he went to Washington, a problem for Serbia, a big problem for Serbia that he will return from there. This law, which today is on the agenda, is a law of intent. We will, if we adopt this law, decide that we will decide by some new law to return something to others, and whether we will decide now, if we adopt this law, or not to decide when that law is not passed. This is literally, as one predecessor said, the divine guide, does not use, but brother does not harm. The problem on March 9, 1945. Why March 9th? Why is it not March 9, 1941, so that what the Germans took from the citizens of Serbia into that amount of returned property, then the partisans took from the Germans after they arrived in 1945, and then when we arrived on 9 March 1941, we wondered why not in 1921. King Alexander Karadjordjevic, the unifier, has turned many into black, taking away their land. Did you predict here that you would make peace, that you should give them back Banat, to give them back half of Backa, two-thirds of Backa, to give them back a third of Srem, whether you had foresaw those Ustashas who lived in Srem, and then they fled after, whether you would make up for them justly, as you say. Why don't we take in 1921 as a border year, why don't we go back to 1890, maybe a little bit back, so that we can get the agams and escapes that were in Serbia back to the country, and bring the Serbs back to the farmers. Because that's about the policy you're still leading: European farmer's Serbia, that would sound nice. Whether this law you pass on the recording, because don't distract the citizens of Serbia, this is not a law on the return of property, but a law on registration, so if you're a government, the state has a complete record of who what, when and how you took it. Therefore, do not record that someone has been taken. How will you repay, say, the property of some heir they took property and killed his father or grandfather? How are you gonna get his grandfather back? How are you going to get your life back? It is a pity that the traitor Goran Svilanovic is not present, so let me ask him a few questions, because in yesterday's Politica, he is, you know, gentlemen, now a member of the European Commission who will decide, who already decided yesterday, and yesterday I went to Politics, what about Kosovo. All agreed, and thus, that Kosovo is slowly giving in over the next four years, i.e. to move on to independence. First, they say, there will be limited independence. (From O.R.: Theme. It's a very subject, but you don't understand, it's a reflection of intelligence, it's nobody's fault. Limited independence, and after four years of unlimited independence. I'm asking you gentlemen of the government now, since another article has come up with this, where the prime minister is mentioned, and the president and everyone else, so I'm asking you, is this study on the feasibility of the trade for independent Kosovo? What you will give for entering the European Community, whether it will be Raska and Vojvodina together or will be satisfied only with the Vojvodina, etc. The SRS certainly won't vote for this law, and as far as the absolute limitation period is concerned, even when someone kills, so 20 years hides, 20 years and the first day appears in public, you can't arrest him, it's absolutely out of date; and especially for this, absolute obsolescence, 20-year-old limitation is quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14191	The word has the People's MP Mika Vlaovic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared. Excuse me, Replica National MP Zoran Ćirkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14192	My esteemed predecessor honored me not to know geography. It is true that once after this pay phone, I mentioned Ukraine, Belarus and, thinking of Moldova, of course, I lost track of it, so I told Mongolia. It's just a simple, one-of-a-kind lapus of lingu. Since then, this gentleman has paid more respects to me that I don't know that Mongolia is in Asia, but that Mongolia is in Europe. Even if I didn't know, let him know I learned. Secondly, he, a poor man, tries to be funny, but apparently he doesn't go for it, and I'm telling you, he's the spiritiest when he's quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14193	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14194	I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, and first because my colleague Markovic is not here, that in his very expressive, funny presentation, he is commenting on what Mr. Cirkovic said, and also to remind you and to learn something today. Momir Markovic is one of the best and most famous Serbian aphorists, and unlike your former party colleague, Aleksandar Jotric. You know, someone as scrawny and ugly as you, who's supposed to learn in 60 years where what country on the map of the world is, can't really go out for a pay phone on any basis. And not that it would be good for you to keep your mouth shut, but not to come to this assembly at all: you will no longer have a chance after the election, so who knows which party to change?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14195	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic. Let MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14196	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, said the minister of this law was not thrilled. I don't want to talk about it much. I'd like to discuss correcting that injustice. The DSS slogan -- a word, promised in the 2003 campaign, despite all the difficulties affecting Serbia, is fulfilling that promise. Who are the people who took away the property? Since I'm a farmer and from the village, I'll talk about the farm and what's been taken from the farmers. One ideology, coming out of the war as a winner, surrounded by a big brother who directed to collect property in Serbia, with a parol: work as long as you can, and take as much as you need, which is in a certain way radical – I wonder who worked to sweat and who wouldn't take a little more than he needs – has made a certain mess of villages across Serbia. Now we have a situation -- old villages and dead cities. Thousands of salsa in Vojvodina, which were not a reflection of capitalism but of torment, there the hosts lived without electricity, with a gas lamp, working from morning to night and saving their descendants to provide a better and safer future, not to suffer like them. The property that had a small value was also taken. Thirty or forty hectares now in Vojvodina cost 100,000 euros. And the man, who founded one party and boasted throughout Serbia that when he was a kid they didn't have enough sherbets, has now bought a car at the car fair for 600,000 euros. (Glasses - who is it? You all know who he is. Many of the faithless Tomes speak in this congregation - you try to promise a list and recover property, and it will be nothing. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia -- they said the same thing, made up of lots of parties, it won't last more than three months, so thank God they'll push the whole term; they said, there's nothing from the feasibility study, so the feasibility study was won. And another thing, the heirs of those who took away will vote for this bill, will vote and the DSS, and I wonder if now some who attack this speak out of ignorance. Thank God if that's the case. If it's different, I think some vampires are speaking in the Assembly again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14197	The word has the People's MP Milan Markovic, and let Jovan Palalic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14198	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the second day of the Performance Study, we'll soon celebrate that, for which half an hour, since obviously we're counting on time from that day. But let's talk a little bit about the law. I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here, because his presentation was very correct, professional and something we are not used to, and that is that I am the representative of the motion to make a certain assessment of the law that will not only be political but in some way personal. I must say, I have an understanding of the approach you've offered here. Of course, I think it would be far better if we didn't go in two steps than to go one step away, that it was possible to do so. You probably, as executive authority, have estimated that it is not possible to do so, and that is why we are going to talk today only about the law that you have proposed. The public probably knows, and I suppose MPs do, but I would simply point out this here in order to point out the need for this issue to be resolved quickly, and that is that countries in the environment have practically passed a restitution law in 1991, and beyond that, including Albania, which did so in 2004. If we go only with this law, like with some first step, and then just that deadline seems pretty long, because after that deadline, when it starts to pass some law, then I don't think we're going to know what it is. I also disagree with the minister's opinion that this is the same situation as when some law commits to the adoption of another law. Usually, one law of general character commits to the passing of a law which, let me say, is only one part of that total matter. Well, let's just say, that local self-government bill was supposed to pass a law on the capital. But there's a little bit of a contrast here, so I think Professor Hiber was absolutely right when he drew attention to the fact that the next legislator could be difficult to commit. But it is in the end the same with other laws -- it is difficult to oblige legislators later, as the highest authority and the only authority to pass the law is the highest authority. What's the problem with this proposal? So, what may have caused the confusion in our public, especially among those who are interested and who should be the users of the solutions to this law? Well, it's just that this law contains some defiances that cause suspicion, and the Democratic Party prevents us from supporting you in this step. We tried to express our doubts, or our remarks, i.e. Let us remove the amendments, and I will now state the position of the Democratic Party: we will vote in favour of the law, but if our amendments are accepted. Where are the key things about our amendments, that is, where are our key objections, which I think are also public objections and those who are interested in implementing this law. This is the first Article 1. He's in his own right and wrong. Many here have asked why this law is mentioned and why it is one way of speaking about certain institutes that are the subject of the first member. We have given an amendment in which we have clearly counted all those acts on the basis of which the confiscation of that property was carried out and we think it is necessary that you accept the amendment to Article 1, if you really intend to accept the amendment to Article 9, where we propose to prohibit the availability of that property. Because that's the only way we're going to avoid that trap that happened in some countries, which is to stop privatisation. I must admit, I don't understand why you chose the Directorate as the authority to which they apply. We all know, and especially those who worked in local self-government or in law enforcement, it does not matter, that the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is simply unable to do the job it was given in the jurisdiction of the 1995 Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia. So the Directorate just doesn't do it. You have thousands and thousands of cases only from Belgrade, which are required by the State Property Directorate and the Directorate's consent is not given. I will tell you my sincere confidence in this - I do not understand why we have never changed that law since 2000, the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand why the previous government didn't do it, and I don't understand why this government doesn't do it either, at least with those provisions relating to the consent of the Directorate and some of the banal things like letting it into the lease of business space. Now, it's a little depression, but I'm going to tell you that one business space, it doesn't matter which one, can't break up the lease contract in case the tenant doesn't meet his obligations unless it's agreed to by the Directorate. Now you can get into a situation where you do not pay the lease for two, three or five years if the contract is concluded after the Act of Assets in the possession of the Republic. You simply can't break the contract, because every judge, or lawyer on the other hand, will insist on whether you have the consent of the Directorate to terminate the contract. But, well, it's a little dyspression. That's why I think you made a mistake here. Maybe it was meant to educate the Ministry of Finance and thus solve this problem. We in some draft of ours, some similar law, predicted that it would still be the Ministry of Finance who would decide. I also don't understand why you brought this down to just one narrow circle of face. Why didn't you include religious communities, responsibilities, etc. This is just about the records. It wouldn't have disrupted the whole process. It wouldn't be a big deal if there were any additional records. So our amendment seeks to correct this bill, and what I think is very important when you enforce this law is that it cannot possibly be a burden on the users of this law, and I suppose it will be adopted. You simply have to pay taxes, administrative fees, republican, municipal or how you predict them, or you'll go directly to the Directorate, I don't know how you imagined it, so this whole procedure can't bear the cost of the users. You know, it's just one ethical question, more than the question of the money itself. I'm sorry that the minister isn't here, since I have one objection to make, I assume that you from the Parisodić team have not written your answers to our amendments, but I would point out something that has marked all this time since this ruling coalition is in power, which is that the DS amendments and the Priors refuse. A few times we had an extremely illogical situation, which also caused a mockery, that the amendments that were a matter of logic were rejected, or that wanted only to change the order of words in the sentence, to make things seem more normal. I'll tell you the answer to my amendment. In my amendment, I have proposed, as part of this whole non-availability concept, to issue a certificate on the reported assets. You know what the government's response is? The government's answer is - no amendment is accepted, because there is no legal basis for issuing a certificate. I was really shocked when I read this, what a legal basis it was. Mr. Wolf is shocked too. You know what kind of legal basis it's supposed to be for someone to issue a certificate. Why I think it's an important confirmation. Because you say here - the cover seal, the reception stamp is enough or the confirmation of the submitted mail mail is sufficient as evidence. First of all, this certificate isn't enough to prove it, you know that. When mail is sent, you have that receipt certificate, and what's in the shipment nobody knows. As far as the reception seal itself is concerned, it is not enough, because you can have the same amount of paper, or show as if you have handed over completely blank paper. So the receipt certificate should actually confirm that your application for the registration of the property has been accepted in the review, and if you do not receive confirmation, that means that your application for the registration of the property has been rejected. It is therefore necessary to have a confirmation, that you could, in the extreme case, insist on some state bodies or in private relations that this property is the subject of an examination. What if someone reported this building to the Assembly as property? In that variant, the Directorate would refuse to issue a certificate of the property reported, because it is obviously a joke, and in the variant when it is checked that the property really exists, or that it has a basis for submitting that certificate, which does not prejudge the question of how it will be resolved under the new law, then you issue a certificate to it. That's why I think it's necessary for there to be a confirmation of the recording of the property. In the end, this key Article 9, which all of this revolves around, if accepted, would be necessary for you to accept these amendments that would better handle it, and that is the ban on availability. I think after this law has been passed, there will be a estrangement, a cover-up of assets that will be subject to registration. I think everyone will rush to buy it out as soon as possible, to make legal traffic two, three, four, five times as soon as possible, and in this way perhaps to make it impossible for someone to exercise their right. If you accept the amendment to prohibit availability and accept the amendment to Article 1, there will be no suspension of privatisation, because it applies to natural persons, except in those cases where it has been taken away now when it has not been a partner society, etc. The second is his right in some legal person, that's the thing that's going to be the subject of some availability, but Professor Hiber and I, when we did this part, we really took care that if an amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 9 were accepted, it would only apply to the property of the natural persons. He may want to take some smaller segments and disable privatisation, but maybe some price has to be paid. In the end, however, the issue of restitution is a matter of some price, but there is also this ethical reason and many other reasons that lead us to the fact that we have to execute the restitution. Secondly, what I have proposed with this amendment is that for the property recorded, based on this certificate issued by the Directorate, we could in land books make a note and ban the availability, and we could be able to present the property subject to this law to attach that certificate and prevent it from concluding lease contracts that would be 10, 20 years old. It's about the fact that I've foreseen an amendment that lease agreements for this property can be paid at most for a year. If it is not resolved by then, let it be extended for another year, but again to prevent some kind of abuse that could occur after the law is passed, because anyone can do the next thing. The procuring entity may conclude a contract for a specified period of time, not a contract indefinitely, and apply the Liabilities Act and terminate that contract, etc., or, after this law, provide for some kind of exclusion from the application of the Liabilities Act. Just take the situation to close the contract for a certain time for 15 years, how we're gonna break the contract for a certain period of time. In principle, we can't, and you know it, and I know it, at least not according to the current bond law. So I'd really like to ask you, I'm sorry that the minister is not here, that you as his associates, and as representatives of the ruling coalition here, consider the possibility of a ban on availability, to accept these three amendments that I've been talking about, in that way certainly our party will support you, which is certainly less important in this case. But I am sure that in this way, in a better way, with less doubt and less dissatisfaction with those who should be users of this process, we would pass a law that would really be the first step, as Mr Milosevic said, but that it would really be a step, not a half-step, which could not, after this process, go back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14199	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly shocked by the draft laws on the agenda at the moment when most citizens of Serbia are barely making ends meet, when they expect some true and reform laws, and not by calling themselves great reformers and people who do miracles for the citizens, and ultimately it all comes down to increasing our wages to ministers, and that people live worse and worse. In fact, the proposal for this law is a proposal for nothing, for something that may be or may not be, and it is most likely not enforceable, and even harder to survive in legal traffic. That's how the bill was made to stop the protests of several dozen or hundreds of people, because you like to please everyone, and in the end nobody in Serbia is satisfied, because citizens live worse and don't see the hope of living better. It is not by chance that when anyone asks for any strike, anything you take at the first moment is very sharp, and then you partially meet the requirements, you force everyone else to whom you have destroyed their interests, by accepting the demands of a group of those who seek and implement certain requirements, so that some businessmen, along with some mobsters close to the authorities, can make their interests come true. It was not accidentally done in JAT, Belgrade, or Belgrade Airport, or on this law, it is obvious that your intention is to protect the highest interests of acts of power and that they can do whatever they want in this country, and no one else. I can also see that the time has come for you, said Mr. Markovic earlier, as if time had begun since the new era, from the study of feasibility. That's how we've had, as you say, democratic changes on October 5th, as I say of the petty changes of October 5th. So that was our first milestone, that was before and after the new era. Now we have a new era, so it's going to be ours and a new era, like we used to have in history textbooks, so now it's going to go from a feasibility study. I only ask myself, and when will it go from the moment Serbian citizens live better? Last night we saw it in the diary, I really underestimated the possibility of state television, I said that they would convince us that we live better than in Switzerland, for God's sakes, this last night went beyond the hopes of all the Swiss people they ever had, that it is possible that such prosperity in one country exists as Serbian citizens live. People look at the diary, then they turn off the TV, they go out in front of the house and they wonder -- maybe this isn't just me, let's go to my neighbor's house, let's go to my neighbor's house, and the whole family has the same thing, and it doesn't look like what they see in Serbia's TV diary. Then someone told them -- wait another 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 10 years, and in those 10 years -- whoever lives, who dies. Who will welcome anything, but it is only for a certainty, that you may live better, you will not. It is only certain that the mafia will advance, that corruption will flourish, that Lazarevic and Hamovic will make their fortune enormously cash. Why can't you say the names of these rich people, why can't you say the names of criminals? You can tell every one of us what you want, and you can't say their names. You can't because they help you, and your parties, because they bring envelopes when they need to, when they're stuck. We're a little angry about the pajamas and slippers, so let's go, get the envelopes, and then they should bring it. So some others are a little angry about this or that, bring the envelope. That's why mobsters and criminals in Serbia are not allowed to touch, and that's why Serbian citizens are looking for changes, but they're looking for serious changes, not that guy Tito's anymore. Now, we've had a feasibility study, and now about everybody needs to go to the roller skates or roller skaters, because these are very important things that have happened. It will be very important when Serbian citizens live better, when criminals are in prison, when mobsters do not manage individual sectors and resolutions in the state government, when there are rights and justice in this country. It's the essence of things, not that we're here dealing with a law that talks about nothing, maybe something that'll come in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14201	Time. Mr. Wolfie, please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14202	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, you've been very patient. I knew it wasn't Mr. Markovic, the other one, there. So, about something that won't come, and maybe it will, but it sure as hell won't survive in legal traffic, but it's important to brag about how we did one more important thing. I ask you, since Markovic is not chairman, he has been telling me for days how he wants to answer this: why is the law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act submitted by the SRS, why is it not the bill on legalisation, the law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction on the Agenda? Why? Because it doesn't suit you, because that solves the basic problems of Serbian citizens. That's why the agenda will be those laws that don't interest anyone, but to brag about how we do a lot for the citizens, is that they don't really see it, but in the Serbian television journal, they'll see that everything is best and everything is best. I know there are some journalists out there who could forge something from what is said in the Assembly, and it's certainly so good, at least according to what the RTS information program shows daily, that there's no one who can spoil such an idyll. I'm just waiting for you to give us that crispy milk, that there's no more of these black chocolates, just white chocolates to eat, nothing else, everything to be just like in Basel or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14203	Mr. Wolfie, it's the sixth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14204	There's something else I wanted to say. Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14205	There's time. The word has a folk MP, Jovan Palalic, and before him, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14206	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 220. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In about two hours, it'll be exactly 48 hours before we get a famous positive assessment of the Performance Study. Member of the 220th says: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "In the previous two days, we listened to countless distinguished fellow MPs, especially us from the ruling coalition, about the contribution that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which we have chosen, and there are also MPs and individual committees of the Serbian Parliament, to obtain so long-awaited a document called the Commission's report on a positive feasibility study. I ask the competent services of the Serbian Parliament to get the translated text of a positive feasibility study by Tuesday at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14207	Thank you, colleague Omerovic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14208	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been under discussion for two days now about the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property, and several questions have appeared here, and everything has been heard through the discussion of individual MPs and representatives of the parliamentary groups. It opened up as a very controversial question whether we need denationalisation at all. If we also need, which model of denationalisation to choose, would by investing in the process of denationalisation do new injustices, whether there are necessary means for such an important process and whether it is necessary to do so by law or by several laws, as we now see from these intentions that exist in the proposed law. This first topic and the controversy that began yesterday, which is whether we need denationalisation at all, is a question that is affecting the fundamentals of all the social processes that have been happening in Serbia since 1945 until today. There is no doubt that after winning World War II and establishing a communist government, the state committed acts of violence against private property and threatened not only that freedom, but also other freedoms and rights, including the right to life, along with the threat of the right to private property. It was the state policy, which carried out communist ideology that took away private property from the prominent citizens of the Serbian state. They were subjected to various tortures. We in Vojvodina know in what way it was done, by pulling up mustaches and all kinds of things, not to mention the fact that many were deprived of freedom while trying to protect their private property. One ideology of establishing such a society was carried out by labeling individuals as class enemies, and in fact they were the enemies of one policy that was established in 1945 by the communist party. There is no doubt that state policy has violated certain rights and that the state is obliged to make such violations and this injustice which it has now carried out correct. The only way to do so is to denationalise it by completely restoring property to those of our citizens who have lost their property in an illegal way. Of course, the question was whether it was necessary to do so with more laws or one law. I have to say that this way that has been chosen, which is to get into the process of reporting and recording, and after that to pass one general law, is not something that is common when we look at the environment of our country. In both Slovenia and Croatia in 1996, and also in Montenegro in 2004, a law was passed that regulates the issue of recording property in a unique way, as well as the procedure after that, as well as the models that have been taken. I have to say that the bill on denationalisation, which the DSS submitted, is one concrete and good bill, and it is in a unique way that regulates this whole procedure. It also regulates what is denationalisation, which is the return of property that has been seized in an illegal manner, without a market fee, sets out the principles on which denationalisation is carried out, and these principles can be a lesson to the legislator who, in the coming period, will make this law, the law on denationalisation and restitution, which is that the property must be returned to all former owners, that denationalisation cannot be a new nationalisation i.e. that things that have been obtained legally cannot be taken away and, of course, that denationalisation must be done in a legitimate way. I would like to say that this proposed law, as it is proposed, has a goal, and this is seen in the reason that property is simply recorded, that in some ways our citizens, who believe that property, application, has been taken from them in an illegal way, and that an assessment of the size, scope, potential values and property is subsequently carried out. I believe that in this bill, it was possible to regulate things more precisely so that the procedure, which follows after 30 June 2006, would be more concrete and clear. Of course, the questions in Article 5 that are discussed here, whether all the evidence that is provided here is sufficient, is a question for discussion. It may have been possible to predict that by means of a witness or by other means, because the question is, are all available copies of the confiscation of property. Or commit the state to meet each and every one of them in that sense. The issue of the record-keeping body, the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate is foreseen, is the question whether at this point this body has all the necessary technical capacity to do this big deal. The question that was kind of interesting to me, and I think my colleague Markovic has submitted the amendment, is the question of confirmation. Our citizen who thinks his property was taken from him, submits this application that was proposed by law and nothing. He still doesn't have any information on what happened to his application. The way that records are kept. It may be arranged by some sublegal act, but I think it would be a good idea to have some sort of credential or confirm a citizen's betrayal. The question that has also been raised about this bill is whether it was possible to specify more precisely when to pass a future law on denationalisation. It was a serious legal controversy. I think this bill, whether there are certain shortcomings in terms of the inaccuracies of certain provisions, has one good side. He's not just a law of intent. It represents one good will of the current ruling majority to enter this important social process. We have not had a serious debate in the Assembly since 2000 on this important social issue. In that sense, if it is a good and clear intention, this law should be supported. But, of course, it is important to hear from this speaker a clear view that the law on denationalisation will be passed and that a general social consensus be made on this issue. Thus, our citizens, who rightly expect to correct the injustices that were done after 1945, would have hope and confidence in the state that the state, which regains the values of private property, would return to the values that are civilization and which are fundamental human rights, would be the state that will guarantee it in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14209	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in Serbia have had serious political debates on denationalisation since the introduction of a renewed multi-party since 1990, where it will take the state. And that you, at least longer in Serbia's political life, at several round tables, held on state television, and especially in the pre-election campaign in 1997, listened to the position of the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, would not, after all these years, advocated that something that is inconclusive, which is opposed to the Constitution, which is politically unacceptable at the moment and which creates additional legal uncertainty and instability in our country. What we have on the agenda, along with a changed representative of the government's proposing, is something that is not the law. This is one survey paper, a form that could later, when and if it would be, but believe me, through all the arguments that we're going to make to the end and through the amendments, it's better to never find such a thing on the agenda. So, it could possibly be a follow-up form in this law on denationalisation, and in order for it to be implemented at all, we have to look at it from a legal and political point of view, define today some property-legal relations and see where there are a couple of tens or a couple of hundred, or several thousand citizens, and where Serbia is even those who are looking for the necessary help of another species, not this kind. I must say one more thing in favour of the claim made by one of the colleagues who spoke, which is that this will bring a lot of legal uncertainty, suspending the transport of certain immovableities as is the case for the inability to privatise three Belgrade hotels, the Hotel "Splendid", the Hotel "Mazestik" and the Hotel "Excelsior", because of the rights conferred by former owners. I have to give you a number that was placed in public a few days ago by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, when he said that when that process comes to the state, it would take about 60 billion dollars to deprive the former owners. Then I ask you where the future generations will be, and where will this poor country find that money anyway? This survey paper, which is not the law, with its Articles 8 and 9, gives guidance on how future law should look and simply obliges the future congregation majority, who, be sure of that, long before you think it should be amended, to pass some new law. What does that mean now? At one point, something happened that we as normal people couldn't justify, and that's the method of this revolutionary justice. How could you and the Proposer possibly define the date of March 9, 1945? In the context of everything you say, and that your laws are reformal, and rather that you had really some law instead that would better regulate economic and social relations, I must remind you that you forgot just one little thing, that Alexander Karadjordjevic boasted that he was a great king reformer, so he took away the hectares, and the question is how many lands to the Serbian Orthodox Church and our monasteries. Then in Article 10, you say, "The return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law"; that is, by the laws, because the question is how many more laws should be passed. But never that injustice, at one point in time, can it be corrected because it's been 60 years. And the way that you imagined doing that will bring much greater injustice to many generations that stood and were born after 9 March 1945. For me, for Serbian radicals and for every honest Serbian patriot today, and above all for fellow MPs who sit and come from Kosovo and Metohija, it is at least degutant that you put this law on the agenda, and you know that their basic human and property rights are compromised and that you do nothing like the Government to oppose it. For months now, and the Assembly has rejected your decision to discuss the SRS resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and how to protect property rights against what Serbs today have in the enclaves they live in, and only how they will repay their seized property. You laughed and made a loud comment, I listened carefully to you from the bench, when my colleague Momir Markovic told the only truth, and it was hundreds of times, talking in some debates and at round tables, the president of our party reiterated. You may think so, but it's absolutely impossible to do that, because there's no such means, nor can you ever right an injustice until the end. You may think that you can make up for something in a material sense and court some part of the voter you promised, but as my colleague Markovic said and repeatedly repeated the president of our party since 1990 and beyond, people's lives can't be restored. The loved ones, the ones who suffered in that revolutionary enthusiasm and all that they suffered, you can't get back. Now the question is, why are you putting this on the agenda? In order to reach out and repay the debt from the pre-election campaign to certain groups that expect it from you, and you know that this is just one poll that doesn't mean anything, you know that the way to it is exhausting and that it would never be fair, and you know that it is opposed to the Constitution and the positive legal norms that apply in every society. Minister Parivodic, who had to jump in instead of Mladjan Dinkic, knows that. You should take care of that, when the bill comes to the vote, it's no big deal that he's passed the board and that your government suggested, that you stand up to it and vote by your conscience, which only gives you the opportunity to do the right thing, if you want to see how far that way would lead us to think and the inability to do this. The law itself, I repeat again, is not a law, but a survey paper, in a situation where all the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which, as a political pamphlet today, you fantasize in the Assembly, and you know that over half a million people expelled from the Western Serbian Republic, Republika Srpska, lives here today, is on your conscience. But you should consider, for the future of generations that stand, not to go back to what is the past, especially because you have no legal or constitutional basis, and above all, no moral, until the end of the act, to do something like that. I would also like to welcome on my behalf the arrival of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia MPs, Mr Buha, who, unfortunately, could no longer represent his people's interests as an MP in the Republika Srpska Assembly. That is why, on this occasion, only now your colleague, and the torment of people who had to leave their property and who suffered badly, and if you look back at the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, you will see that this law is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14211	The People's Messenger Blagica Kostic has the word, and let the Messenger of Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14212	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the SPO, which since its founding, as one of the basic software settings, has a restitution of property property that has been seized by force from original owners during and after World War II, the proposed law on the registration and registration of the seized property represents "a beating of empty straw" and a distraction of the public. The restitution, as a software setting of the SPO, was firstly established because of the mass application of terror against the original owners for and after World War II. Terror was conducted in other former communist bloc countries, so all those countries immediately after the victory of the democratic forces joined the restitution of property rights seized without market value compensation. Returning property in physical form has been approached in democratic countries and because it is the cheapest way to return property. Unlike physical return, the method of selling someone else has great shortcomings, since this property has no continuity of property that has been interrupted violently. Also, this property remains in the hands of a third party, who is privileged to buy it at a bulwark price, and the owner's value is compensated at a market price from the state's financial resources, and for the amount of the same funds are denied citizens, above all. The benefits of this methodology, which we've applied and applied, still only have third parties. The State benefits from the return of assets in physical form also result in the fact that the property is placed in the use or acquisition of income or sold on a free market that excludes corruption. The adoption of registration and registration laws only slows down the process of restitution. You've done the same job twice. A registration application is first submitted, and a second application is submitted for the return of property which must also be recorded, as well as the first one. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the property-legal services of the administration and local self-government were obliged to keep records of the seized property and of those assets safely and at present at that time and at the disposal of them. In interpreting the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets, right at the beginning, the first position went with a negative connotation, that this is an extremely complex issue which has a number of legal and socio-economic dimensions, and the positive economic effects have not been raised at all. Also, it is not said that the state will have income from the very use and possible sale of that property. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia to its original owners, apart from the moral aspect, also has a prominent legal and economic aspect. It is known that serious foreign investors cannot imagine buying a property that has a break in the continuity of property, and they also cannot understand that there is no private property in our country over building land, and that is one of the serious reasons why they don't even invest here. Of course, that also means that, before any action, constitutional barriers must be bridged in order to address this issue. Reimbursement of the property of employees, funds, foundations and legates has extremely positive socio-economic, scientific, but also educational effects. It is known, for example, that thanks to this type of property, the Belgrade University until before World War II was one of the richest universities in Europe. Now he's one of the poorest. I propose that the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and that the process of drawing up the property restitution law taken from the property after 1941 be completed. By the time the restitution law is passed, the sale of the seized property should be suspended, i.e. a ban on the availability of the property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14213	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14214	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I believe that this law on the registration and registration of the seized property is merely a delay in the final and essential solution to the problem that has arisen as a result of ideological belief after World War II that property should be taken away from all those who have property over property larger than prescribed, and this is due to ideological preconception that an expropriation from the expropriators should be carried out. So, all those who had and had more than the prescribed property were considered, by nature things, under then applicable law, as persons who used other people's work. In this way, it has ceased to apply and the foundations of the termination of the rule of law have been hit. One of the fundamental rights is the right to property. The right of property does not go out of date, so it is an ethical and legal basis for the return of the seized property. Property doesn't go out of date. I got one throw out of the bench, antiquated deadline for certain legal actions, but property itself never goes out of date. This is a legal and ethical basis so that a return law can be passed, i.e. the compensation of the wrongly seized property. The purpose of the development of every advanced democratic society lies in private property and in the free market. Only private property is the basis of inspiration to create excess value. It's a driving motive that drives people to create, create, move forward. If the motive for adopting this law is only prolonging the solution, if the adoption of this law is a delay in the final solution, I do not agree with this law. If this is an introduction and a willingness, and a message to all those whose property has been taken away, that it will indeed be returned, in the most recent time, that it will be restored, and that means that it will be returned first of all in that physical sense, physical form, what has been taken away, that is what I stand for. I believe that the confiscation of property has brought great injustice to a large number of hosts in the then-Yugoslavia, and above all in Serbia, and I believe that many family accidents have been caused by this unfounded and unfair seizing of property from them. I also know personal examples, so I join all those examples that have been taken from this pay phone, and that some hosts have taken their own lives just to increase the circle of heirs that could distribute their property within the then prescribed maximum. I know the personal tragedies that were happening among the hosts, where, for example, the father of a family, the host, hung himself to make his children a chance to get two larger apartments, or one smaller apartment, and they were within the law of the prescribed maximum. Those injustices will never be removed, no one will return to life, and on the other hand we have an obligation to replace all those whose property has been taken away with the property that was then taken away from them. I have objections to legal-technical solutions in this law, because such bad legal-technical solutions show that only political support for those whose property has been taken away, that is, heirs or legal followers, is essentially not solved. It is not legally possible to distinguish between those whose assets have been seized or their legal heirs so that those who apply until 30 June of the following year have one status, and those who miss that deadline have no subsequent right to regain property. It is not right for one law to impose obligations on the future legislator in order to regulate the way in which the property is recovered, i.e. the compensation of certain rights seized, i.e. property. It is also wrong for the church and religious communities to be placed in a different position than the legal and natural persons whose property has been seized on the basis of the applicable legal rules since 1945. The solutions to this law are unclear. It is not clear how the property seized by confiscation will be treated. Confiscation is expressed as a secondary measure in criminal proceedings. So there are strong judgments. It is not clear whether this law means that it will end the importance and legal consequences of criminal-legal proceedings ended by judicial judgments. This law in that part is inconclusive. It is not clear either the methodology by which the heirs, or those whose property has been seized, will determine the value of their assets. It is also unclear whether persons who have received an alleged fair compensation have the right to recover those differences between fair compensation and the essential value of the seized property. I have to remind those who know, and to warn those who do not have a profession, that fair compensation essentially means injustice, because it is not the essential market value of the seized property, but it is the compensation prescribed in an administrative procedure by the state or the authorities of local self-government. There's a difference. This law, so well-conceived, would prevent many people who are allegedly paid a fair fee, which essentially means injustice, from paying the difference to the full market value of the seized property. The law has not defined in Article 2 what other property rights mean. That's completely unclear. I would like to know the nomenclature of that kind of right, the scope and content of the right, on which the persons whose rights are threatened or their successors would have the right to compensation. It's not clear here. I believe this indiscriminateness leads to improvisation. I also agree with my previous speakers who say that the state, or authorities of local self-government, have an obligation to record nationalised assets and assets that have become social, or state-owned on some other basis, so this is a double business and only a delay in the essential solution to this problem. As a matter of fact, I would like to point out that when a person wants to conclude a real estate sale contract, he must request a report from the competent secretariat or administration in the local self-government and obtain confirmation that it is not nationalised property traffic. If the local authority of self-government has the possibility and the obligation to issue such a certificate, it is unnecessary to record property when there is an official register about it. I must also express my disagreement with some criticism that the previous government, and above all the late Prime Minister Djindjic's government, and then the government run by Zoran Zivkovic, did not take care of the property that was nationalised or through some other regulation became social, or state-run. I want to point to article 84. The construction law, which has just defined city building land and a special term -- remains a building land that is not in the function of public building land. It's a small denationalisation or denationalisation of a small door. This provision was subject to the assessment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court ruled that this provision was in accordance with the Constitution, which means that city building land was placed on the market, which is the basis for the return of city building land to earlier owners. Another thing that is crucial to our position about voting on the proposed law, which is a ban on property traffic, which, on some basis, has violently and unwilledly become a social, or state-owned, owner. We have proposed an amendment to this law and we propose that the current authority exempts all assets registered on the basis of registration, which is a way to prevent further distribution of assets that, past the will of previous owners, changed its essence, i.e. changing the holder of the right of disposal. We believe that in this way, we would prevent new injustices that were done to previous owners and that, as many or so laws as this would, if adopted, lead to a relatively normal relationship with the legal system and with the intensity to establish the rule of law. If the motive for the adoption of the law on registration, registration and the list of assets is merely a study of feasibility and only a desire to show the international community the willingness to return property in a later period, or compensation of previously seized assets, we believe that this is not enough and that this is not a strong enough motive. Here the motive should be ethical, fundamentally, for everyone to come into a position to return what was taken from him and to have one example of general prevention that no one else should ever consider that without compensation, without the essential compensation of market value, is taking property from the owners, because it is a guarantee of the prosperity of every democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14215	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a law that seems to have arisen because of this pattern that is an integral part of the law, and it's possible that the pattern was created because of these members out front. However, mathematically speaking, they are both both necessary and sufficient conditions, and what we are presented as a law will not produce any legal fact, nor does it have any other purpose than to promote some pre-election promises of the ruling set. Unfortunately, by putting on the agenda, in general, such draft laws can determine that the ruling majority is doing one way to obstruct the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as this does not put many more important laws on the agenda, which are very interesting and which could lead to improved living conditions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's so far unrecorded. This kind of work was usually used by the opposition, when it comes to obstruction, but, you see, through laws like this, it is also possible that the ruling majority is obstructing the work of the Assembly. I'll comment on a few members and try to show you all the nonsense of a law like this. Well, here, in Article 3, perhaps even a little cynicalally, I will notice, although the Serbian Government's proposal, which says to itself that it is very modern, to lead the country into European integration, is interesting that these members did not predict that this application, except by sending the recommended shipment, could, for example, be sent to the e-mail, which would be consistent with what you stand for. If we've already passed the e-signature law, I don't see why we can't determine this possibility, if you have any serious intention of doing anything about what you're trying to declare with this law. However, what is much more important, in Article 7, you are saying that the Directorate will keep records of the reported assets, based on the information contained in the application referred to in Article 3, this form, and the data available by the state authorities, organisations and units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, public services and other bodies and organisations. So, all bodies and organisations, all public services in the Republic of Serbia, will compare their data to the data they receive on the basis of these reports. And how you will determine authenticity, or how you will determine the trueness of the application if you do not possess any information in state bodies, organisations and institutions, on which basis you will determine whether the application is true and whether the applicant has real claims or not. No, you don't really need this, because the state, it's true, has data on everything that has been done so far in these process of taking away property in the past period. Since you cannot determine the truthfulness of the claim, without what it contains here, it is interesting to ask why, if you had a serious and honorable intention, on the basis of the information available to the public services, public institutions and institutions, you did not inform any of those citizens and their legal heirs, who were seized in due course, that some state organisations and institutions kept records of it and there are data that they had had certain assets. However, you can see already in Article 8 that what you have called the law serves you for a whole other matter. You here want to, because you say that the submission of the confiscation of property within the meaning of this law will not constitute a claim for the return of property, since you will not return property based on this application to you, practically, this service for the next one - you, especially in small areas, at the local level, have a large number of people whose property has been taken away and who are not there. I'll give you an example of Negotina -- over 20,000 citizens are abroad, we're taking them on temporary work, but that's already the fourth or fifth generation of people who are likely to live there. You set a deadline for them until June 30th, although you possess information about their possessions, of course this law will not be advertised as others, so they will practically be uninformed. It will be brought here, it will be kept silent, and since they come once a year, they will not be able to submit such requirements, and it will give you an alibi that practically on a large number of these parcels, if it is land, which in the meantime has become city building, where the buildings are nimbled, do the privatisation, because you will not, in this way, return property, but will practically legalize it and renationalize it. You will legalize it by saying that for those who do not apply until June 30th, that obligation does not exist and that such land will once again be nationalised, and of course a large number of people will not be able or will not be able to, or will not be notified that such a law exists at all, in order to make such a request for the return of property. I said -- you didn't predict this proposal, which you call the law, or the possibility of the Property Directorate responding to whoever sent the request. What the Directorate has concluded, whether certain state institutions possess information on whether these property rights of their application are true and real or not. Since you did not, of course, determine here the possibility to notify those who sent you the application, it is clear that you only want to collect a certain number of data on how many descendants and legal heirs might possibly have to do with this. Here, in the light of the law, you can really see that you're not going to do this, that you don't want to implement it. You say that the process of compensation for previous owners will be integrated into the process of stabilising the further development of the national economy, as well as to see the objective economic and financial opportunities of society to make up for it. These are two totally opposing things. You, if you think you're making up for your assets, you can't possibly include it in the process of stabilising and further developing the national economy. That, in my understanding, should practically be the state to give some money and therefore, for some period, if it is released, it should be reduced to the development of the national economy. Finally, something that is unsustainable - depending on the determined value of the reported asset, etc. It will also depend on concrete solutions regarding the recognition of the right to return of property. It can't depend on how much the amount is and the seized property depends on whether it has the right to recover the property. It doesn't matter if the state has any money. They must, if proven to have the right to return property, be entitled to it, because it will be uncut, and it must not depend on whether or not the state will have money at that time. It would be like if you promised a child, if he did something to you, that when he finished, you'd buy him a toy. When the child is done, you go out to the city, come back and get the kid that she didn't do the toy store and you couldn't buy it for him. That's how you treat this. It's not the law, it can't be the law, and it'd be good if you pulled this off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14217	The word has an MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14218	Dear Mr. Markovic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, of course, of the 100th century 2nd and 3rd in connection with Mr. Ristic's exposure earlier. I understand the opposition's actions, so I've performed on my own several occasions, but I was surprised by an experienced MP and a recognised lawyer to come out and at the end of his presentation, he says that this is the law we're passing only because of the feasibility study. Mr. Ristic, the feasibility study was approved two days ago. The Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, was first informed about this. So neither Sveto Marovic nor Djukanovic nor Vujanovic nor Boris Tadic, but Mr Vojislav Kostunica. Eventually, this law, like all others, will be passed because of the Association and Association Agreement, which is the next act we will sign with the EU, and thanks to the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, that is, more precisely. I'd like to ask you in the future to say that it's because of the Agreement, not because of the Studio, which has already been approved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14219	Replica, MP Bosko Ristic. Comrade Pajovic, we'll postpone your exposure for the afternoon, obviously there's no time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14220	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have indeed missed a moment ago to express great satisfaction over the feasibility study, because of the positive assessment, and I really do participate in the joy of Serbia being on the path of European integration. I would like to congratulate everyone, and Prime Minister Kostunica, and President Tadic, and President Marovic, and all those who are well-willed and all those who have contributed to hitting the foundations of European Serbia. I want to highlight a very significant contribution and a party to which I belong. Whether someone will accept it, the assessment that it is to this extent a contribution, is left to the citizens of Serbia, but I really most sincerely congratulate all those who are on the path of European integration, to all those who have Serbia at heart, with standards that mean democratisation of our society. I want to wish everyone good luck on the hard road to transition consciousness, implementing everything that means the standard of democratic Serbia in the future in the community with EU countries. On that path I want all of you, and myself together with you, happiness; and together we will discuss, I think, topics which will not be so diametrically opposite. I expect consensus in this assembly, and in that sense I accept my predecessor's debate with the best intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14221	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14222	Ladies and gentlemen, once again a good day. We'll continue the afternoon session. Before we determine the quorum, just one notification, since we're at this point on the agenda. I remind all MPs, especially those MPs involved in the work of local authorities, so tomorrow at 12:00 a.m. in a small hall, will be presented with a draft law on the making available of property to municipalities, hence local self-government, municipalities, and it is now under state property. I know it's very important for all of you, so I'll let you know tomorrow at 12:00 in the small room. Please, let's now determine the quorum for the continuation of the session. I'm realizing that by applying the electronic system, we've determined that we have a quorum. I give the word to the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Pajovic, that the Messenger of the people, Vojislav Milajic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14223	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of restitution of the seized property and compensation in the event that the restitution is not possible in natural form, in cases where the property has been seized in the process of confiscation, expropriation, therefore, agrarian reform, etc., as already stated in Article 1 of this Law, is an extremely complex issue which must be approached in a serious and comprehensive manner. I find this kind of partial solution, as proposed in this law, not good. In the first instance, which does not give this law any positive effect on persons who apply for and apply for the registration of claims and return of property. The justification that the adoption of this law is necessary and that it is a first step towards denationalisation and recovery of property is not convincing enough. It can be said before that, under this law, people who apply for a return of property are trying to get their eyes blacked out and to create the impression that some serious actions are being taken in this area. You cannot see when a new law will be passed, or law that will fully regulate this area. This law not only brings nothing positive to persons who submit applications and who are registered, but rather brings only negatives on those persons, and that is primarily that those persons who have the right to return property, but who do not accidentally report it, lose the right under this law to apply for return of property. I think it's inadmissible and inappropriate, especially from a legal point of view, that this law norms and solves a question that is intended for some entirely different future law, which is not certain to be passed, but only there are promises that such a law will be passed. This law provides for appropriate material evidence to be submitted on application in the event of a measurement of the request for return of the property. It is unnecessary to fully submit a copy of the act that has been withdrawn and that this is a condition, i.e. a return application, so that it is complete, because it may happen that a person does not possess such a application, that his application is rejected and that he loses the right to apply. It is crucial that this law should be contained and given a certain meaning, that it is not intended to prohibit the availability of the property which is recorded, or that that property cannot be further in legal traffic. I have been contacted by members of the Požega Property Recovery Association and their opinion is that this law does not make sense unless there is a ban on the availability and privatisation of social and state property recorded in these cases. I would also like to point out the fact that this law provides for the adoption of two special laws, where the conditions and procedure of return and compensation of property will be laid down. First, it is not necessary for this law to determine how the issue of the return of property will be resolved and that the priory determines that the property will not be returned to the churches under the same conditions under which it will be returned to the natural persons, even if the conditions are not the same to adopt two special laws. It was necessary, most rational and comprehensive to pass one law, which will contain the reporting and recording of assets, and to be within one procedure. I have closely followed the discussion of my predecessors, and I can conclude that the debaters from all MPs have given great regrets to this law and there is not a single parliamentary group that has not pointed out the lack of law. The minister himself said he wasn't satisfied with the law, so I don't think there's any reason why this law should not be withdrawn from the legal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14224	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miodrag Djidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal for a law on the application and registration of confiscated property has tried to regulate all situations in which, 60 or 50 years ago, property was taken away, primarily agricultural land, apartments, business buildings or private enterprises. Article 1 of this proposal provides for ways of confiscation of assets by former owners, namely nationalisation, agrarian reform, confiscation and expropriation, and provides for conditions. As far as nationalization is concerned, there are two laws that matter. One is the law on nationalisation, I mean residential buildings and building land, where residential buildings were taken away and rented, and by this law the owners were left with two apartments or three smaller apartments, and all the building land had passed into social property. The second Nationalisation Act envisioned the takeover of private enterprises in 42 industries. The amendments and additions to the law extended the removal to another 10 industries, so that 52 industries were covered. Nationalisation as a method of moving private ownership into state property is not a patent invented by the Socialist or Communist authorities. After World War II, the first Labour government in the UK carried out a major nationalisation in the areas of mining, energy and traffic. The Socialist French government conducted a major nationalisation of the banking sector in the mid-60s. As far as agricultural reforms are concerned, they are not only related to our country, they are tied up as a general policy assembly in the area of agriculture, thus redistributing the ownership of agricultural and forest land. The reforms were also carried out in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It lasted 10 years, covering two million hectares of the country, and there is the most damaged Serbian Orthodox Church, since its possessions are the most damaged by this agrarian reform, and there it covers about 600,000 agrarian stakeholders, those who have been given the land. In 1945, a law on agrarian reform was passed. The new communist government had to sort out the problem of the groundless, so people who did not have their own country and people who suffered from fascist terror in some parts of the country, such as Lika, Kordun, Bani, Montenegro, Herzegovina. In a way, they had to provide them with some basic means of life. The Agrarian Reform Act introduced a maximum of 45 hectares of forest land and 25 hectares of agricultural land. By law of 1953 on the establishment of a agricultural land fund, the national fund, the maximum was reduced from 25 hectares to 10 hectares of farmland, which further increased the fund by 300,000 hectares, which passed into the property of the social sector, and this land was used by agricultural combinations and agricultural cooperatives that were social. The law also provides for the registration of those people who were seized by confiscation. Confiscation is a secondary sanction in the criminal and administrative proceedings of that time, meaning after 1945, which went as a secondary sentence with the main sentence. However, not all of whom have been confiscated in general, means those who were members of Ustasha formations, Hortiians, or I don't know who, who participated together with the German army in the occupation of our country and the terror they committed in our country, are equalized with the people whose assets were confiscated because they were not able to settle their obligations under the regulations of an emergency ransom from 1945 to 1950, and cannot generally be returned to everyone whose property was confiscated. So, there must be an audit of administrative and criminal proceedings, to determine exactly who the property was confiscated from and who it wasn't. Finally, as one of the methods of confiscating the assets of former owners, sequestration is mentioned in the law. The sequestration is not a way of confiscation and transfer of property from one form of ownership to another, but rather a security measure in the course of a criminal or administrative procedure, and restricts the traffic and assets until the end of an administrative or criminal procedure, and after the end of that procedure, the Authority returns that property to the owner or finally confiscates it into state property. The bill of law is absolutely unacceptable and has many shortcomings, and as soon as it is engaged in 11 members, it is best said that it is unseriously accessible to produce this bill, and the SRS will certainly not vote in favour of such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14226	The People's Messenger Miodrag Djidić has the word, and let the Messenger Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14227	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, when we talk about the law on the application and registration of the seized property, I think we need to go back a little bit, go back in December 2003, that is, at the time of the election campaign, and remember what the parties that are now in power promised us and what their pre-election promises were. I'd like to get two things out of that election campaign. One thing was privatisation and another was denationalization. When it comes to privatisation, they promised to change the privatisation model and to review privatisation, and when it comes to denationalisation, they promised that as soon as they came to power, they would pass a law on denationalisation, i.e. the return of the seized property. What happened to all that? Nothing. As far as privatisation is concerned, the privatisation model hasn't changed, it remains as it is, and that's a good sign, and what's good from our point of view. There's no change in the privatisation model, there's no privatisation as it was, and there's no speech since the privatisation review. It's been a year and more since this government's been in power, but nothing's been done on that plan. As far as denationalization is concerned, nothing has been done to this day. And now, it seems to me that time would be bought to distract those who expect this government to be returned to them from their assets, a law on the registration and registration of the seized property is proposed. So, there's no speech from the denationalization law, and even here, it's proposed a period of over a year to which they should be interested in reporting property, so until the sixth month of next year. And when it will be and whether a law on denationalisation will be passed, there is not a word about it. I guess this government knows that next year at this time she won't be in power and that she'll let someone else do it. What the Democratic Party hates most about this bill is that there is no ban on the possession of the seized property. It's proposed to make a record, to make an application, but there's no restraining order, and that's one big flaw that I've had a chance to see what it looks like in practice. Namely, there are people who are still alive, who have property, who live upstairs, and below is their business space, which, under some law, has passed into social property and is now subject to traffic. Imagine how people who know it's theirs feel know that it would be much easier to get it back if it remained in social property, and they can't do anything because it's going into traffic and sold to someone else, third or fifth physical. It will be very difficult for them to recover their property later or much harder. It is one of the major objections that the Democratic Party puts on the bill and, if the ruling coalition accepts the amendment we have submitted, it is possible that the Democratic Party still votes for this law, although there are many major shortcomings. What about this law are those most concerned by the people who protested in front of the Assembly when they said we're not looking for records, we're looking for a return of property. They also showed citizens of Kruševec, when they had a close encounter two weeks ago with Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Labus, when he was repatriated on the square in Krusevec, both by dissatisfied workers of Zupa, and by dissatisfied people to whom property should be returned. That's what people who should be treated with this law think. I have already noted here that under Article 3 of this law applications can be filed by 30 June 2006. Why not in six months? Why a year and more? I've already given the answer: so that someone else would do what this government didn't do. In Article 1, which many have talked about, I would like to ask why 9 March 1945, why no list of all the laws on the basis of which the property was taken away, so that the return of that property is carried out later, and it is very well known what are the laws, when they are passed and how many are there. That's one of the remarks we're making. Furthermore, this law states that the condition is to be submitted in accordance with a specific law, and the specific law has not been passed and the question is when it will be passed, as well as how it is possible for a future law to be conditional on it. I'm also asking what happens to people who don't respect these deadlines, who don't report their property? Does this mean that they lose their right, and everyone claims that the right of property is uncut. Just because someone may not have filed all the documentation for some reason, or he couldn't get it all, he'll be discouraged from exercising his right. I can't see he's right to complain. Whether it's determined by a solution, so we can file a complaint and on that basis exercise some of our rights, or give us a deadline of ex-post, in which the requested data should be delivered. So these are all the shortcomings of this law. That is why I propose to the Proposer to adopt the DS amendments or, better yet, to withdraw this law, to do it and to make it a better version of the law. I agree that there should also be registration and registration, but that the process should be arranged, that someone should not be left without their right simply because there is no procedural alignment there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14228	The word has a folk MP, Miljko Cetrovic, next is MP Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14229	Dear People's MPs, Miroljub Labus, Dinkic and Bubalo are in Washington from tonight. Nothing good will they do Serbia and the Serbian people. They probably went after instructions, or orders to do further to the state of Serbia, to continue destroying Serbian banking, Serbian economy and to realise all the ideas of the IMF that destroyed many countries in the world. This law proposed by the government, it's not the law. These few provisions through the members make up a manual that had two objectives. I believe that the government wanted to achieve this moment: to calm those citizens who were deceived by the DSS, vowing that the return of property law would immediately be passed, or to fulfil the tasks set out in this government by the EU. If what is announced is implemented, this historic injustice that has been happening since 1945 and beyond with regard to the confiscation of assets on various grounds would not correct many of the historical injustices that have been happening today in the state of Serbia. Restitution, i.e. the return of property in Vojvodina, would mean the return of more than 40% of agricultural land, houses, households to the folks, who destroyed the Serb people not only in Vojvodina, but in the entire territory of Serbia, as well as the former territory of Yugoslavia. As I come from the King, if we ask who will make up for what the King experienced in October 1941, with six thousand gunmen, Kragujevac, when there was a black fairy tale of the German Nazis and fascists on every house. Will Serbia and the Serbian people be obliged to make up for the aircraft factory that Boris Kidric moved to Mostar? Will Serbian citizens make up for the truck factory that was moved from Rakovica to Maribor? Will those who live too hard in Serbia today, which is over a million pensioners, of which 300 thousand receive 5,000 dinars a month, and even under five thousand dinars, whether peasants who can't sow field springs because they don't have what they have, whether young people who don't have a job, who don't have an apartment, or who don't have a chance to live otherwise normal and decently, with some law that's being announced, be obliged to return that property that is registered under this law, and according to a law which requires a future assembly to bring and pay off? Who will pay off the property, as it is said, about 60 billion euros? When? That would mean the disappearance of this people from this space. Will the injustice done to the peasants for a ransom be compensated? Is this government considering reporting on its work after a year and more, and this Minister Dinkic for the Ministry of Finance, as he says, is the most successful, which is the headquarters of this government? Will the rest of the departments file reports? Will this government, with its ministries, go once to fight the financial mafia, the mafia's pharmaco, which I have recently heard exists, the urban mafia in Serbia, the drug mafia, the mafia that trades oil derivatives, and even now we have the mafia in sports. Here, they warn me to give the other MPs of the SRS the opportunity to speak. This law, in fact, is no law. You've heard more than once that the SRS won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14230	The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and let the MP Ivan Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another legal project that is a pure political pamphlet, i.e. Ensuing Serbian citizens and some crazy promises - of joy. Namely, according to Natasa Jovanovic, an SRS MP, this represents a political pamphlet or a survey paper. It would be good if you'd multiplied this into several hundred thousand copies and that in every bookstore a citizen can look at and fill out this survey paper, rather than this is a legal project. What we're seeing here today is a legal yuppie and a political pamphlet of today's majority in this House. This is what the planned records and reports of citizens who have been damaged since 1945 mean to this day only the dizziness of those who are really seeking their compensation and the injustice that has been done to them. When I saw a group of several hundred protesters who were in front of the presidency of the Republic of Serbia ten days ago with certain passwords "return property" etc. Even then, I was aware that you would propose a law like this to calm down and suppress public opinion, to delay your reign. The particular problem with this law is that you have commissioned the application by 30 June 2006. I think you've given you a very long time. Perhaps it's the trial of your government and your government on June 30, 2006, but I think it's a lot, that's where you were wrong. It would be good if you put on June 30th, 2005. In fact, until then, we have to be distracted by these things, that people report property, that they run after papers, that three million are detached from the budget of the Directorate, to record those reported. It's just a waste of time. By then, you will have a storm of strikes from Serbian citizens who are dissatisfied with your policy. I wonder why you write it like this, if you could do this the other way, because the state of Serbia could use its competent authorities to record this better than this way and this way. Why better? Because this is how you try to avoid those citizens, especially those who currently have no heirs or are abroad, which means that only part of the citizens will come forward, those who trust you. I believe there are a lot of citizens who don't trust you and who have been deceived more times before, so maybe they won't answer. What after recording these citizens? What happens next? Afterwards, the government will probably not be in power, or as an opposition, you'll say you tried something, and that's why we're distracting the citizens again. You took the same tactics as finishing school in Kumrovec or Kruševec. It's the same tactics the communists used. I'm convinced the citizens won't believe it, and now I'm here in public. What if there's a sum somewhere around 80 billion that's mentioned here? Who's gonna get that money, how and what? I wonder, the state of Serbia how much property it has now. You're saying you're going to pay that money back to the natural part and the part from the budget. What kind of nature when you sold out everything that could be sold out, and the state, and state property. You sold out factories, you sold out state property. You revolutionaries from October 5, 2005 are acting exactly like those of 1945. Why am I saying that? In 2005, you entered state institutions, such as the National Bank, Customs and others, and there you robbed that property headed by your Finance Minister Dinkic, automatic rifles and normally without any handovers. To this day, you don't know how much money was found there, how much money was there. Unfortunately, the former governor of the National Bank is normally not allowed to speak, because you threatened him afterwards to amnesty. Furthermore, I ask you if the citizens and workers of Serbia will seek their property that you usurped and sold out by post-why. Will they ask for this by special law and whether the new government will have to make a new law and you will return the property you usurped from Serbian citizens. In the end, I want to say openly, this law is a real disgrace and fraud for the citizens of Serbia. I am convinced and believe that this law, as we call it, will never experience its application, and especially will not be applied during your rule. And if you had the strength, you would have made the right law on denationalisation and then to show the citizens of Serbia that you are capable of realising it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14232	The People's MP Ivan Radic has the word, and let the MP Milan Stevovic be prepared. There's no choice on Mondays, so we can do 12 and 19, and we can't do 13. I'm kidding. Also, when it comes to terms, when today's work is over, I inform you that it will not work on Friday and Monday, as we said, but only Tuesday. Here you go, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is best spoken of firstly by Minister Parivodic, who in yesterday's presentation once said: "I did not write this draft and I am not delighted with it. "I am not surprised that today the minister is not with us in the Assembly to defend this bill from the MPs. Shortly thereafter, one of the ruling majority MPs addressed the assembly who said the proposal surprised a large number of MPs who were surprised by the speed he was in the process. The whole thing looks like that crazy and confused story, we just don't know who's gonna turn out to be crazy and who's gonna be confused. The fact is, it's the wrong moment and the wrong environment to pass one of these laws. It is one of the most common pranks for Serbian citizens. He will only heat up the false hopes of a large number of Serbian citizens that they may eventually come up with some property or an enormous amount of money. It actually comes down to day-to-day political marketing, to getting cheap political points. It is impossible to carry out the procedure provided for by this law. The government is aware of that. I say, this is a pure marketing trick that should only bring certain political points to the ruling majority. What I noticed, which is that almost all political parties in the period when opposition parties are pushing for denationalisation, but the moment they come to power, they don't think of putting such a thing on the agenda. In order for this authority, under the firm's fulfillment of the pre-election promises, to realize that such a bill should be put before the National Assembly, put on the agenda, to be discussed by the MPs, knowing that this is only a half solution that needs to be deceived by the public of Serbia. Legal and constitutional reasons do not allow the adoption of one of these laws, and what is particularly problematic is that this bill represents an attempt to oblige future legislation, and which is legally unfounded, almost legally impossible, because you cannot or can not predict in this law when and at what time you will pass a law on denationalisation, you cannot predict what the future parliamentary majority will be and you cannot practically commit it in one such way. Many things in this law have been disputed, starting with the date of 9 March 1945, which you brought as a day that counts for the recording of the seized property. So it's about a period back 60 years. Why isn't it 80, 100 or 200? It used to be illegal to take away private property, things like this used to happen. Why, for example, in 1941, which proved particularly problematic in Srem, where Ustasha NDH took away the property of Serbs, and the communist government only continued after the release itself. What about the folksdojcers and their heirs in Vojvodina who are back a decade or two very interested in passing such a law, will eventually be changed by returning property to them by the structure of the population in Vojvodina. It seems to me that the current government is intervening like a chicken in a puppy, that you're entering a chain wheel and you're almost unaware of what kind of problems a law like this can cause without talking about a universal ageing period of 20 years. This is about a legal precedent. Lawyers know how dangerous legal precedents can be in the legal order of a country. There's a lot of problems about this law. One of them is that you cannot confirm with certainty the legitimacy of the heirs. What if the same property is reported for two, three, five, ten heirs. How do we determine that? The legitimacy of the disputed property cannot be established with certainty, as you say the state does not have valid documentation on it. It is who and in what way, under what conditions and on what criteria it will carry out the assessment of that property. These are all things that this law does not clearly define. There is a problem with the registration of new owners in the cadastrian books, because you know that the entry of new owners from the records is deleted by previous owners. The problem becomes a team before it gets bigger if the property has changed in that period by two, three or more owners. What about the property that's been underprivileged for several years. If you remember correctly, gentlemen, in the election campaign, you promised that the disputed assets would not enter the privatisation process. However, it turns out that your pre-election promises weren't true and that you stepped on them very quickly. What to do with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. How do they get their property back? This law doesn't predict it. And a really complex and difficult issue for the state of Serbia, what to do with Serbs from Kosovo who left the territory violently 40, 50 or 60 years ago, with a ban on returning to it, how to solve the problem. There is one more thing, and that is - however unfair the confiscation is, in some cases it is also just, or executed as a form of punishment. Let's say, for those people who worked with the occupiers. We don't only have those examples in our country. We have these examples today in developed and modern European countries, in France, for example, in some countries of Scandinavia, Norway, where property was taken away by persons who collaborated with the occupier and even half of the property of today's Italy was taken from the Roman Catholic Church, i.e. the Pope and the Cardinal. So comparing these two things leads to the conclusion that one such bill was not necessary. In the end, I would just say that this is a hypocritical bill, which corrects the great historical injustice of God, while the current government threatens to confiscate the property of persons indicted before The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14234	Thank you. Please, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Milan Stevovic, and let Nemanja Sarovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly refer to this law. Let me remind you, we've heard a lot from the MPs of the SRS. I fully support what my colleagues have said and I will not repeat it. I will give a little specific reference to the regulations and to the legal miles to which this law in question applies. It all started on August 23, 1945, when the Law on agrarian reform and internal colonization was passed. I must also say, in particular, that it was federal law, then published in the Official Journal of the DFJ, or the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia. After that, we had republican laws, which were passed in three segments, in 1948, in 1949 and 1956. I'm undermining again -- it's about republican laws implementing agrarian reform. After that, we had one very important law, which is the Law on the transition to the state property of enemy property and the sequestration of the property of absent persons. So this law that we are considering today applies to the second part of this law, which is in a way that provides property in case the persons are absent or have not responded to the call, or have not been in the country of Yugoslavia at all. And it's federal law and it's published in the Official Messenger, then the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. When we talk about confiscations, we have to mention the following things. It is that the Confiscation Act was first introduced in 1946 and corrected also in the same 1946s. I have to underline something else, because here it has been seen as one unknown or insufficient notification; when it comes to confiscation of property, one, confiscation of property was punishment, as an independent sanction; under two, confiscation of property was a measure of security that went with a certain penalty. In these two days, these two concepts have been very often wrinkled, melted, and we have to underline one sharp and one clear difference between this. Of course, all in order to understand the law in question. When we talk about nationalisation, we have to say that there were two laws: one concerning the nationalisation of companies, and the other concerning buildings and building land, so the law on the nationalisation of rental buildings and building land. These are laws passed between 1948 and 1961. So it's some legal mileage in which it's nationalized, it's taken away property, where criminal sanctions are imposed, and security measures are imposed. But not just that. There are also laws that were specific, such as the Law on the Mandatory Buyback of Agricultural Products from 1945 and 1946, which passed until 1948. In addition, we also had the Agricultural Land Fund Act in 1953, or the FPF for short. And I have to say one thing -- this law that we're discussing here has not discussed the relationship but the previously passed Law on the return of land, which concerns these last two laws, and that's the Law on Land taken away by the PZF and the Law on the Mandatory Buying of Agricultural Products. Therefore, this new legal text "shuts" compared to the already existing, adopted and partially implemented 1990 law. What's right is called "ius double" it happened here. So there are double regulations. This regulation that we need to consider today and possibly during which day to vote, is duplicated in relation to everything that has been discussed so far. When it comes to these proceedings from 1990 and 1991, I can tell you that in most municipalities in Serbia no property has yet been returned under this legal text. So the land that was taken away by the PZF and which was confiscated because of the non-execution of the mandatory ransom is still, after 15 years, not returned to the owners. Here's just one example of how we're going to get on a very awkward path if we bring this and this legal text. I'd just like to ask one principle question. All of this has been followed by certain constitutional changes. First, on 31 January 1946, and by constitutional law of 1953, the 1965 Constitution, amendments 1967 to 1972, the 1974 Constitution, etc. But there's something called modern confiscation and modern nationalization, whatever you want to call it. Here, I would ask just one principle question -- what is it, for example, with an examination of the origin of the property that happened in the 1970s? "You got a lot, you got it, you got it." Behind that, "you got home, you got your apartment back," come back again. It is often spoken of as an old foreign exchange savings, and it is about Dafina and Jezda, and it is about privatisation. We have to say that these are some quite modern forms, where you still have your hand in the citizens' pocket. So when we get all this together, we have to look at it from that point of view and analyze it a little bit. I don't think it's enough when we pass this legal proposal to consider this situation - what this law can apply to. And I'll tell you in practice, here's a chance to discuss a verdict entitled K 48/49 of the Uzica District Court, which says this: "The accused Đokić Marko, from the village of Zdravčić, gave refuge to the Chetnik commander Ijdačić, on the night between the day of that and that and that year, so it is punished by a certain penalty and given to him the confiscation of property." On what basis will the heirs of this condemned person seek compensation? I'm sure he won't do it under this law. Here's why. One, they're supposed to wait a full year to record this. And what to wait for, when the Chetniks and the Partisans are even. They are facing one process of proof of damage, both material and immaterial, but on a completely different basis, because this parliament recently passed a law equating the Chetniks and Partisans, namely NOR fighters and the Resistance. So, I speak for practical reasons. We need to think about all of this, and I think that when this law was passed very quickly and hastily, there have been some legal solutions. In the end, I have to say that it seems that something rightly called a delayed condition has just been broadcast and contained in this law. So, according to that people's "my troubles go to another."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14236	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and we have exhausted the list of debaters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it can be said that this law has really caused an extremely interesting debate, starting with the very explanation of the minister who was here before us, I don't know why he's not here right now. The minister, having nothing to explain this law, talked about everything and everything. He was talking about confiscation of property in revolutionary enthusiasm, he talked about inflation in 1993 and about various other topics, only he didn't talk about this law. What he said about the law is that he was not satisfied with the solutions proposed by this law and then it is unclear why this law came on the agenda and why Minister Parivodic came to explain the law before parliament. Also, listening to representatives of all parliamentary groups in this assembly, it is unclear how this law will be passed at all. No one in any parliamentary group has said anything good about this law, no one has tried to convince us to vote for this law and to show us what good this law will do Serbian citizens, but they have already criticised the solutions given by this law. And it will be very interesting in the voting day to see if you will stand by your words or, as usual, forget what you said in the debate, yet press that button that the heads of your parliamentary groups determine for you. It should return, in order to make things clearer for us in this law, back in 2000, when the DOS promised in its full composition, before those famous federal elections, that one of the first things it would do – and remember that some things had promised to do the first day of the new assembly, some within seven days, some within a month – would be the adoption of a law on denationalisation, or the return of property. You convinced us then to sign that famous treaty with the people. You said you had the law ready, that your experts designed it. And then, and now you're lying to us. We also heard in this debate that for five years it wasn't enough for your experts to build a proper law on denationalization. The second time in 2003, the DSS, which is now the ruling party and which forms the basis of the coalition, firmly promised Serbian citizens that a law on denationalisation would be passed immediately upon coming to power. Of course, and then you deceived the citizens and the passing of this law is the third major deception of the DOS regime regarding denationalization. This law represents pure demagogy, because in this law there is no "d" of denationalization, and the only right that is imposed for our citizens by this law is in fact the right to record the taken property, and there is no word of a possible return. The question arises why you are not talking about the return of property, which is precisely the purpose and purpose of denationalisation. It is clear that this is because you are not planning any return of property in any amount, because you are aware that the law on denationalisation, nor in the form in which you said you would bring it, in any small and reduced amount of return, you are never going to bring it, but you are simply trying to collect another voice and to hold citizens in this state of deception that you brought them to in 2000. Enough of what's controversial in this law. First of all, why exactly on 9 March 1945 was elected as the date from which this seized property began to return. Why not some other date, why just 60 years, why not 100 years, why not 200 or 20 years? Those who proposed this law should have considered why it would not be, for example, March 9, 1941. We all know well how many Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have been expelled from 1941 to 1945, how many Serb countries there are usurped and we also know very well that after the end of World War II, a decision has been made by the communist authorities to ban the return of the Serb population to Kosovo and Metohija, although they have been expelled under terrible terror. Why didn't you take care of these people and see them right even if you wanted to correct any injustices? The question is, how do you think you can ensure legal certainty if you want to change some laws after 60 years? Secondly, more importantly, why did you separate individual citizens and why you returned property to some, such as the one you call His Royal Highness, and whether you were checking whether the NjKV, or his ancestors, acquired property on just terms, were they when they took away land and houses from peasants or not. The NjKV family is part of the property returned expressly. This bill, as given in the assembly procedure, represents pure demagogue, it is a simple political pamphlet. The only reason you're passing this law is because you know very well that you won't be here to implement it. Some of you will be in opposition, some of you will not be in opposition either, but will eventually be able to watch congregation transfers from home, because you had five years to pass this law. Of course you didn't, and now that you've finally put it on the agenda, you've extended the time limit to record your assets until June 2006. It is a very serious question and whether you have any estimate of what the value of the seized property is, and of course you don't have it, and that is another indicator of your indifference, and the fact that this law represents another deception of citizens by the DOS regime. We all know very well that the value of the seized assets is measured by billions. Some have said that it's about $60 billion, and then it's very interesting how you think you can even pay back this money, if we know that old foreign savings, which is much less than $60 billion, you have to return, if I'm not mistaken, by some 2014. By which point you will deem this return of this $60 billion, whether it will be by 2140 or by which I really don't know, but it's inconclusive that any government and any congregation majority are passing such a law, which they know cannot be fulfilled, and secondly, which they know cannot be fulfilled. You simply need to understand that you cannot commit any of the next congregation majority to your laws and nonsense. To see how unserious this is, just think about how many apartments across the city centers are nationalized. It's not just about Belgrade, it's about cities and settlements all over Serbia, and what's common to all these apartments and buildings is that they're usually the most beautiful and expensive buildings in the settlement centers. It's just these immovableities, let's just say, they're practically of a great value. What is an additional problem is that most of these apartments, after receiving housing rights through a ransom, have changed their owners in a legitimate and legal way, and that after buying their apartments, has changed their owners over and over and over again, and everyone has enlisted, and then it is a big problem, that is, how do you think these apartments can be returned. Do you think that the injustice that was done 60 years ago is correcting new injustices today, do you think that I repeat to these owners who have acquired it in a legal and legitimate way, you take away these apartments and return them to previous owners? But of course not. So not just because you want it or not, but because it's absolutely impossible. Another way is to make up for it, but the question is how are you going to fill the budget for something like this, if we all know very well that the economy is not working, that there are more and more unemployed from day to day, that you are announcing new layoffs and new cuts, then the big question is how are you going to fill the budget? After all, not even a single budget, many of the Serbian budgets would have to go exclusively for this purpose, in order to at least partially compensate these people. When you ask for an increase in health pay, for education, for employees in the judiciary, for at least a few percent, you say you don't have enough money, because that would cause dinar devaluation, it would be a market disturbance and a number of other difficulties, but you haven't answered how you think to get these funds, like $60 billion, and you haven't answered because you don't plan it. As far as the law itself is concerned, it should start with Article 6, which says that the application provided for in Article 3 of this Act, i.e. the application for property, can be submitted by 30 June 2006 at the latest. What will happen, I ask you ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, with those who do not report in accordance with this deadline of property, because in this way and this law you are doing exactly the opposite of what you have declared your goals. So, this law will not give anyone back a single dinar of seized property, but it is precisely the purpose and purpose of Article 6 of this Law to a large number of people, who, for one reason or another, do not report property until 30 June 2006, deny the right under any future law. This, among other things, and Article 9(2) says – a request for the exercise of the right under a special law can only be submitted if the application of the seized property has been lodged within the time limit laid down in Article 6 of this Act. To make this even more interesting, Article 8, which tells us that the submission of the confiscation of the property does not constitute a claim for the return of the seized property or compensation for that property, but merely a condition that such a claim is made in accordance with a special law. So the aim of this law is to reduce the number of people you promise under some future law, which you will not bring, but only deceive citizens, will have the right to claim compensation. In this way, you are simply denying the rights of Serbian citizens through this law. The question arises who will bear the costs of implementing this law, as in the light of the law, you stated that only three million dinars are foreseen for law enforcement. If we know what the number of people who took away some property is, then it's clear that for three million dinars, they certainly won't be able to process the applications that should come under this law. You won't even be able to estimate the property, because in the form you gave in this property registration bill, you didn't ask to assess the property, but you'll have to do it in some other way. What is most likely and what our experience teaches us is that you have decided later to set a regulation that those who submit these applications will have to bear, you will probably call it some manipulative costs or something, so that citizens will have to pay this deception at 100 or 200 euros when they apply themselves for nothing, because this is an absolute requirement for nothing, this is not a request for a return of property. You're only allowing this to be recorded. Next, Article 10. The bill says the return of seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. Why do you, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, separate the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is certainly mostly represented in the Serbian people, from the rest of whom the property was seized. Whether you are in principle in favour of correcting some injustices or not, whether you wish to correct wrongs only to some, and not to others, and if so, I ask you why. Would the legal position of both the Republic of Serbia and the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija be improved if the Serbian Orthodox Church were returned to huge properties, and until the Second War, it had this in Kosovo and Metohija. Why Kosovo and Metohija; Metohija, otherwise for those who do not know, means church property. All of this in a clear, transparent way, as you would say, is saying that this is another one of your delusions, saying that you don't want to keep the promises you made during the campaign, telling citizens that you shouldn't be trusted in the next election, telling citizens that they were right when they gave you as much trust as they gave you, and it's getting less and less every day. What is essential, which I must repeat once again so that some would not misread or interpret, the SRS will vote against this law, not because it is against correcting injustice, because the injustice was done 60 years ago by seizing property, but the point is whether the injustice done to the citizens 60 years ago can be corrected by a new injustice that will be done to the citizens today. Of course he can't. The price of all this will be paid by the citizens and the most paid by those who are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and these are the workers and peasants to whom you are so pleased to call in your discussions. What is still very important to say is that this law will not correct any injustice and that this law will not restore property. There's not a single word in this law about the return of property, only the recording of property. You neither return property nor foresee the law to which you will restore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14238	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14239	Article 1 The bill is practically defined by the subject matter of this law. For the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will read what the government has proposed. "This law regulates the application and registration of assets seized in the territory of the Republic of Serbia without compensation of market value or fair compensation, the application of regulations and acts on nationalisation, agrarian reform, confiscation, sequestration, expropriation and other rules adopted and implemented after 9 March 1945." Explosion is a concept that has existed in us not since 1945 but much earlier. It is a concept that knows the law of the European Union, which you are seeking. As an example, I would like to state to you the Constitution of the Republic of Germany, where, as constitutional norm, an expropriation is prescribed and the procedure is prescribed, i.e. it indicates that a fair or market fee should be paid to the owner of certain assets, in particular immovable property. Similarly, it exists in the Italian Constitution, and it even seems to me that at the level of constitutional form, the right to the apartment is defined. The problem with this law is that in one insidious way, as a technical regulation, it pushes something that is dangerous, causes injustice, does not cure some historical injustice, but creates a new injustice. It's wrong to make a new wrong. Please, it's said - the registration and registration procedure. Everything that was the subject of expropriation, nationalisation and other forms of transfer of property from private to state-registered property is, exists in court books, exists in a cataster, exists in local self-government units. And I have to remind you, when the Fund Act was passed in the possession of the Republic, then the record of the entire state property was renewed and this is actually about the reporting of state property, because all of this regarding Article 1 refers to that procedure and those regulations where it went from private to state and social, and that's what the state recorded. It's that insidious thing that you're giving up to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about recording property. As an asset you treat immovable and mobile things, you don't talk about people, but later you throw in a physical person, a citizen as some subject who participates in this business. I must draw your attention that we do not yet have any regulations that have been put out of force by these regulations. Some of these regulations, so-called. Historic regulations, they're on their own. Some have ceased to exist by the fact that some new laws have been passed, and in some areas a whole series of laws have been passed, seven, eight, and these regulations have been released from legal life. So, you didn't put any regulations out of force. Here you rightly ask a question and it opens up a problem why you're only going back 60 years. What's your motive? If your motive is the new communist rule, that she carried out this, that's what was done before 1945. If you're going according to the principle of continuity in this territory and in this area, then you should probably go back to 1878. So it's not a motive for correcting all the injustices in history, it's a pure ideological horseshoe, which you're looking to do, apparently because you promised, and in fact you just want to open an even bigger hole, an even bigger dissension. That's the problem, and you can't solve these problems successfully. Finally, let me tell you, those who believe that these regulations based on which they have been done since 1945 have been deeply unfair, are probably right, but today we have unfair laws, unfair by their own text. The principle of legality and understanding of continental law requires us to respect every law, whether we like it or not, unless it's clearly discriminatory. So no law has been laid down as a general act out of force, no procedure for reviewing individual legal acts arising from these laws is prescribed, and an block is expected to be returned. That's why we suggest that this article be deleted because it brings dissension.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14240	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Marko Krstin, and then the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, and then the People's Messenger Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has admitted that this law does not solve anything and that this law literally will not bring anything back to the citizens of Serbia and it does not require citizens of Serbia to expect, to rejoice or hope that one square meter of land, one square meter of business space or one square meter of apartment will be returned. I must read the last point of the amendment's argument, which says: "Because Article 1 prejudges many questions of denationalisation by amendment, it is required that the said member be deleted. "The government's reply says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 1 of the proposed law does not prejudge anything, and in particular no later material solutions are prejudged, but this law only provides for the registration and registration of assets that have been seized on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on various grounds since 9 March 1945, and in order to look at the value and scope of that property. "So, I think after this explanation it's all clear. You have no intention of returning anything. You're just passing the law to see what's been taken away. National MP Krasic made it clear in the light of his amendment that the seized property has long been recorded and that it is, if not elsewhere, then in the Serbian Archives, then go there, find and do not force people to report something that you do not intend to return for a year. Only this law will have an excuse and then the Serbian radicals will vote for it if you prove that in the federal assembly, which you burned in the bulldozer revolution, there was this documentation, and then burned along with those ballots and then the real state has no record of what everything is, when and how it was taken away. However, Mr Dinkic was supposed to come here and tell us, because he was standing on that bulldozer and if that's the case, we should talk a little bit with different grounds, not this way to drive those people who were taken away, recorded then, recorded at least once again, because you're not the first authority to be unnatural. You're registering and leaving that record for some future time. National MP Nemanja Sarovic told you that what you are preparing to pay back is worth about 60 billion dollars or euros. Think about how much and of what material value you mean to return it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14242	The People's Messenger Marko Krstin has the word, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14243	I'm going to try to talk about this very serious subject seriously. According to Article 1 of this Act, it is provided for which regulations the property has been seized and which property will be returned. A 20-year-old story of limitations is completely incorrect. Right there is no period of limitations for 20 years, there is a 20-year maintenance, it is a regular maintenance, etc. So this story of limitations for 20 years, what colleagues in the SRS are saying, has nothing to do with the law, as some other things have nothing to do with justice. We're pushing for people to return to Kosovo. It is precisely this law that should allow those people whose property in Kosovo has been taken back. Property was seized under the law on the revision and allocation of the country to colonists and agrarian stakeholders in the AP Kosovo and Metohija; then, the law on the admission of the abandoned land of colonists in Kosovo and Metohija, etc. So, it is under this law that conditions are created for people from Kosovo and Metohija, who have been taken away from these measures, to return those assets. That's what this law really says. I don't know how you don't see it. I even believe you see it, but pretend you don't see it. Now I have to explain it to you, and you know it, you say you don't know, as you know, that the general period of limitations is 10 years, five years, the limitations of a judicial verdict for 10 years, three years of damage and a year of occasional claims. That's what the Bond Relations Act says, and you can't change that by making things up. If you say one thing more than once, it won't become true. Let's go back to this date mentioned in that article. It's a date that deserves an explanation, it's a discount date with an old order. So it's the date of entry into force of the Law on the irrelevibility of legal regulations passed before 1941 and during the enemy occupation. The bill promoter thought it was a date for which it should be bound. Personally, as a lawyer, I might advise some other date. That is why I believe that the amendment that Mr Milan Markovic gave to Article 1 is acceptable, because it contains the required regulation register and because it makes the difference between certain types of confiscation, which, after 1963, are under the Criminal Law of the then SFRY, and later, pronounced as a secondary penalty, i.e. punishment with certain property crimes. Such offences should not be presupposed to the return of property, and this is precisely the provision of Article 1 does not make the necessary difference. It is indeed necessary to accept not Mr Krasic's amendment, but Mr Markovic's amendment. G17 Plus, regardless of certain shortcomings that the law has, which can be removed by amendments, will vote for this law, for the simple reason it considers that the property should be returned, which it considers to be the basic mark of a sober state, a country that remembers, which has continuity, which is Serbia. Since property was seized in Serbia as a state, the state of Serbia owes the property back. The Constitution guarantees us and guarantees us the right to property, and this constitution guarantees Article 34 the right to inherit. That's the basis for that property to come back, so there's no fear that the property will be returned to someone who's not damaged, so-called. revolutionary justice. She will be returned to those to whom she should return.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14244	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14245	Mr. Krstin obviously didn't understand the essence of this amendment to the SRS. It's not a legal issue, it's a political problem here. I haven't talked at all about the deadlines or limitations, or the time limits that are necessary for maintenance, or the time limits necessary for occupation, given that this is also about moving things. The problem is a completely different nature. You are proposing in Article 1 to write down and record what already exists or must exist in a regular procedure that has been conducted since 1945 and beyond and in a regular procedure since 1995, when the Law on assets in the possession of the Republic is adopted, when very precise deadlines are prescribed and what is required to do to those who use funds in state property, etc. If you want to talk about the legal aspect, then I have to tell you that the subject has been missed. The legal basis for something like this doesn't exist. Whoever wrote the arguments, I don't know, one of you, called for the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but it was brought in 1950. It has bound us since 2003, when we became signatories to this convention. Don't count everything before you like it's bad, like it's no good. Historically speaking, these are bad laws. Historically speaking, it's one period of time that history will say what to say, but the principle of legal certainty now has a primate. Please, if anyone thinks that without this law can't go back, I have to tell you that you're wrong. Why are you wrong? The owner of this property is mostly the Republic of Serbia. It's state property. He who exercises property rights on behalf of the Republic, experts, is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She gave her right to use especially for her, if I may say, power of attorney in the image of the Republic's Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. If the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants to return the immovableity to the Serbian Orthodox Church, then it can by its individual decision, do not need any law. Don't go after the pots here and dissuade the public. You are asking this law to register potential heirs to someone who may ever get a right, so that you can look at what already exists in the papers, and in fact to keep your election promise -- we will pay you back, but we don't know when, we don't know how much, we don't even know why. None of the laws that regulated this were put out of force. You have just quoted a regulation concerning the ban on people returning to Kosovo and Metohija, but it does not say in Article 1, it reads in the amendment to Milan Markovic, where he taxfully cited all possible regulations under which the confiscation of property was carried out. But an act based on which something was taken away was an individual legal act. How can we, by one general act - by law, carry out an audit of these individual acts?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14246	Milos Aligrudic reported on the business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14247	I would like to warn you that Article 28 is properly applied. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of what the president, in this case the chairman, is obliged to do. So, among other things, he must take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 97, the right to replication is regulated. A short time ago, Mr. Zoran Krasic used his right to replicate Mr. Mark Krstin, who was the previous speaker. I mean, I'm convinced that there are no conditions for that replica at all. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: It was my amendment. I don't care. You have no right to a replica, you have the right to exhibit five minutes, which is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and any of us can come forward and discuss these five minutes. I've applied for the discussion, and obviously I won't be able to get in line today, but I think that this is how you abuse one right in the process in front of the National Assembly to speak in the principle of law and to repeat, over and above, the same attitudes. If that's how it's done, it's an abuse of procedure in front of the National Assembly. That's what Mr. Zoran Krasic does. Not to mention that the meaning of an amendment that requires that Article 1 be deleted does not in itself make sense, because it loses the full meaning of the law itself. When it came to this pay phone about motivating the adoption of this law, there were two things that got in the way all the time. For one thing, it was about the meaning of the law that is before us, which may have certain faults and which may be corrected by certain amendments, and which can in principle be voted upon because of its technical nature. Then they talked about motivation, and then the members of the SRS, which they probably still think, with this kind of abuse of procedural rights before this assembly, continued to insist on it, that they were saying that they were against denationalisation, that they were sorry that the law on denationalisation was not passed. We don't know at all, after all, what their position is, but apparently they think they're sneezing us until six o'clock, and Tuesday when this session continues, still. So you have how many members of the law, 11 or 12, and you have 12 amendments, and each of them says that the bill is deleted. Otherwise, when it comes to motivation or political attitudes, I have no custom to quote anything, but you have in Mr Vojislav Seselj's magazine "View" interview, which was a long time ago, back in 1991, in which he says, "As far as the return of Karadjordjevic is concerned, I think they need to be able to create conditions for their return as soon as possible. Whether they return to the throne or not, they must be returned to the seized property, as all must return the property that the communists have taken. "You see, this is about motivation, and when it comes to motives, then we need to take care of political consistency. To be honest, this was spoken as president of the Serbian Chetnic Movement, but I allow that there is also political evolution in the SRS. Please continue to scold us in the way you started, I don't mind, I claim that the way the debate is conducted in particular is a broken Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14248	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to respond, I assume that you understand that as chairman, I cannot decide in what way MPs will express their views. Also, in these five years in parliament, I have learned that we will save a lot more time if we have one tolerated relationship and allow MPs to seek and receive a word, and in the end, because there is a possibility of calling on a member 100 and thus giving views. Of course, the Assembly will decide in voting day on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Krstin first appeared and then MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14249	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am advertising the violation of Article 97th position 1 because Mr Krasic did not interpret and understand me well, arguing that there is no legal basis for this law. I was quoting Article 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is a valid act, guaranteeing the right of ownership. The same article guarantees the right to inherit. That is exactly what we are doing now to those who have been taken away, except for all the standards of justice of natural law, universalized norms, international organisations and our norms to return it. It's been taken away and the state of Serbia will pay it back. G17 Plus and the government headed by Vojislav Kostunica are pushing for that property to return. We don't see any obstacles to the property coming back. In order for the assets to be returned, it must be seen how much they have, for the reasons why the system budget law must provide for how much the budget intervention will require the return of the assets. I think that's quite clear to you, too, but it's just that you're clear and you're talking about something else. Therefore, since there is a Law on the founding of the budgetary system, which requires that the amount of funds be planned in advance, the law requires that the number of assets be listed in advance, so that sufficient resources can be planned and provided. That's exactly why we're proposing a law like this, so that it can actually be implemented. If we were to come in and say it now, we could do anything right now, we wouldn't be telling the truth. We're just trying to see how much there is and see for real how much money it takes to do it. Therefore, certain shortcomings are indeed within the law, and I think the shortcomings are in Article 1 and it is about not excluding the confiscations that were made after the Constitution in 1963 and demanding that Mr Markovic's amendment be accepted. By accepting Mr Markovic's amendments and some other amendments, this law will be a good basis for setting up the first step to actually return the property to those who have been illegally taken away. Mr Krasic has proposed an amendment to delete that member, and I can say that, the Legislative Committee has assessed that this amendment is not legally possible because the subject of the law is deleted. There is a report by the Legislative Committee and, if we take into account that report, this amendment is immaterial at this time. I think that's enough explanation and we shouldn't repeat ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-14-0.u14250	Since the MPs are signaling that there is no quorum, and I am finding in this electronic system that there is no quorum, it is essential that we determine at 17.55 a quorum. Continuing Tuesday, according to the president, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
