ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17771	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 95 Members of Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Velimir Stanojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Work on the agenda. We are moving to a joint review of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – AMENDMENTS ON BUDGETS SYSTEM AND THE BUDGET OF SERVE FOR 2005. One year, with the following financial plans, unanimously decided by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on points 1 and 2, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the draft law amending the law on the 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees for 2005, Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities for 2005, Decision amending the 2005 Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for the Republic of Serbia, Decision amending the 2005 Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, want a word? The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17772	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we have two important laws ahead of us: the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system and the draft amending and supplementing law for 2005. I'll talk briefly about the first law, and a little longer than usual about this second one. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, we propose amendments in order to bring this law into line with similar laws in developed countries, given that in our budget system public debt payments are treated as expenditure and public debt payments in all other countries are treated as issues, but are recorded below the line. Therefore, it is certainly recorded, however, not to enter into the account of the deficit, or surplus. In fact, when loans are taken from abroad, that money that is taken must be returned. As a result, credit revenues do not go into revenue, and credit returns do not go into expenditure. It is recorded, but both -- incomes and expenditures -- below the line. On the other hand, the interest paid on the main public debt is expenditure, because it is a real extra cost for the budget. As a result, both are recorded, and you will see, as we have put into rebalancing for 2005, it is clear how much the main public debt is planned. However, no developed country takes this, therefore, debt depreciation does not take as a budgetary expenditure, but rather as a expenditure that does not affect the amount of deficits, or surpluses. Because, as credit-based receipts come, when they come back, it's neutral, the only interest difference that's really real and costing a country, and this rest is basically just a time-limit. Also, the loans provided by the State for certain purposes and returned do not enter into the expense account, given that during the year, two, three, four, five, when they return, they cancel this expenditure given in the current year, but that, of course, is recorded. That's the item on Contact 6 - The purchase of domestic financial assets. That's the difference in the calculation of deficits and surpluses. We simply wanted the calculation of our deficit, i.e. the surplus, to be compatible with the same accounts in EU countries and in developed countries. So, the United States, Canada, Japan and others are showing their budgets this way. So far, we had to have one report for the National Assembly, and then we had to make a second report for international financial organisations. So, in this report, everything will be contained, except that the classification has been changed in a way consistent with other countries in the world. Also, the paper is to reorganise within the finance ministry. Namely, there is currently a Public Payments Authority in the finance ministry and the Treasury sector. We are now uniting it into the Treasury Administration. So we're not forming a new institution, we're making one out of the existing two. The Treasury administration will unite the responsibility of the current sector for the Treasury and the Public Payments Administration and they will start working if the Assembly adopts the law, as early as August 1st this year. Then, what is important, we introduce the terms of the budget deficit, or surplus, then the primary deficit, or surplus. The primary deficit also excludes interest on public debt when calculating the final result of the budget. The concept of a consolidated deficit is introduced, i.e. a surplus, which includes the total balance of the state, not only the Republic, but also local authorities and compulsory social security organisations. However, this consolidated surplus is shown in a budget memorandum each year and is the basis for budgeting over the next three years. Here is the mandatory assembly and consolidation of final accounts at the level of the local government and the budget of the Republic, as follows: the local government authorities in charge of finance are making a decision on the final budget of the local government adopted by the local assembly, except for local authorities in charge of the business of financing city municipalities in Belgrade, as the city adopts a decision, as Belgrade municipalities deliver their decisions on the city's final budget account. The local administration authorities in charge of finance affairs are compiling a consolidated report from the City, and I am speaking for Belgrade, which contains the city's final budget account and the city's final budget accounts from the city's territory, which is submitted to the Treasury Authority. If another city forms municipalities similar to Belgrade, then it applies to all other cities in Serbia. The Government then submits to the National Assembly a draft law on the final account of the Republic’s budget and a decision on the final accounts of the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations, and the Ministry of Finance is required to draw up a consolidated report of the Republic, which contains a consolidated report on the final accounts of the Republic’s budget, final accounts of the mandatory social security organisations, a consolidated report by the Republic Health Insurance Office, final accounts of municipalities and consolidated reports of cities, and this report is submitted to the National Assembly for information. In previous years, the final accounts did not have an external oditor and, as you know, this assembly has not yet adopted the final accounts for 2002, 2003 and 2004. As for 2004, otherwise the time for adoption is now before the adoption of the 2006 budget, however, for 2002 and 2003 the Assembly did not adopt these final budget accounts. In the meantime, we have made a decision at the government to hire an independent auditor. However, the act needs to be confirmed by the Assembly, and I expect this to happen now before this summer break, and whether it will be the committee responsible, the president of the Assembly knows better how the procedure is going. In any case, before the 2006 budget is submitted, we will also file the final accounts for 2002, 2003, which was the obligation of the previous Government, but also for 2004, which is our government's obligation. I would now move on to an explanation of the budget rebalance for 2005. The budget rebalancing of the total budget was set at 433 billion and total expenditure on 400.8 billion dinars, which means that a budget surplus of 32.2 billion dinars is planned, i.e. an amount equivalent to 2% of the social gross product. As for the original plan adopted by this assembly, the 2005 budget plan, the revenues were planned at 396 billion and expenditures on 416.6 billion dinars. Now there's an increase in rebalance income by 9.3%. So we expect 37 billion more revenue than we planned, while expenditures will be reduced to 400.8 billion dinars. For the first time in a long time, namely, for the first time since 1940, Serbia will have a budget surplus and I will tell you what the surplus, if adopted by the Assembly, will be spent. So, as far as spending surpluses are concerned, the first item is the lending of development projects of 5.5 billion dinars, and these are the following: for the work of the Agency for Insurance and Export Loans, so a billion and 50 million are foreseen for export lending, in order to pay 50% of the founding capital, plus 200 million dinars to the Export Credit Development Fund. Then, for microcredits for the unemployed, as you know, 600 million dinars were planned in the original budget, and now we predict another 400 million, so a billion in total, plus a fund for the development of 600 million dinars from their own resources, so a billion and 600 million dinars are self-employment loans. Furthermore, 7.5 thousand new jobs should be opened on the basis of a competition already launched and completed by the National Employment Service and the Development Fund. Then, the new programme to be opened, if the Assembly adopts this rebalancing, which is housing loans for young people, where the state will finance 20% of the participation and 10% of the deposits for housing loans for less than 45 years of age, and a total of 900 million dinars is intended for that purpose. This will lead to a reduction in the average interest rate on these loans to 4.5% annually. As far as other activities are concerned, these are projects to stimulate employment in the regions, in the municipalities of Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje, a total of 500 million dinars of this budget are foreseen for these purposes, for the work of the Guarantee Fund 300 million, the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans for the recapitalisation of 410 million dinars, for the student loans of 770 million dinars. These are key items that account for 5.5 billion dinars. In addition, payment of the general public debt amounting to 23.5 billion dinars will be made to domestic lenders of 22 billion, which are primarily old foreign currency savings, as well as those to whom the loan for economic renaissance is being paid, and as you know, the payment of the old savings began on 31 May, while the loan for economic renaissance begins on 31 August of this year. In all, there are 22 billion dinars, and there are also payments related to other types of public debt cuts, and above all to repurchase the vault bonds, because the state has previously issued bonds to borrow and cover the deficit, since we can now return one part of the public debt to the surplus. The internal capital of the public loan is a billion and a half dinar, a total of 23.5 billion dinars will go towards the repayment of the main public debt. When you subtract 5.5 billion from the 32.2 billion surplus in the name of lending development projects that I mentioned and 23.5 billion public debt repayments, you get a balance on the account that the Republic of Serbia's budget will have at the end of this year, which is 3.2 billion dinars, that is a surplus that remains when public debt is paid and money is spent to credit development projects. I would like to remind you that in 2003, the budget deficit was 4% of the social gross product. Last year, after the summer and the rebalancing, we went into fiscal adjustment policy and managed to reduce the budget deficit to 1.7% of the social gross product in 2004 and the total reduction was 2.3%. So, from 4% of the social gross product, the budget deficit was reduced to 1.7% last year. This year we planned to have a 1.4% deficit, but in the next minutes and in the presentation, I will tell you why we decided this year that instead of the 1.4% social gross product deficit this year, we would achieve a budget surplus and thus fiscal adjustment in two years of 4.2% of the social gross product, and one of the rare cases in other countries that in such a short time, such a strong fiscal adjustment was made, although there were such cases. However, I will give you the reasons why the government has decided to take this step and why Serbia needs a budget surplus at this time. There are several reasons why Serbia needs a budget surplus in 2005. First, Serbia must reduce its debt, because the overall level of public debt is not too high on one hand, it stands at 56% of the social gross product. However, private debt is growing, private external debt is increasing for the simple reason our country is developing, banks are granting more credits, citizens are taking these loans, businesses are taking those loans. For example, last year, out of two billion euros of foreign loans, the state borrowed only 300m, and a billion and 700m euros were borrowed by citizens, primarily by the economy. So private external debt will grow in the coming years, and that is inevitable for all developing countries, for countries that have a transition, but in order to compensate for the growth of private debt, we need to reduce public debt. Therefore, public debt must be reduced, and the only way to reduce it is to create a budget surplus, so that the overall level of our country's exposure to abroad is either constant or reduced. To remind again, at the end of 2000, the total level of public debt in Serbia was 14.2 billion euros, which accounted for as much as 170% of the social gross product then. Today, on June 30th of this year, Serbia's public debt is 9.8 billion euros. So it's smaller by 4.4 billion euros and accounts for 56% of the social gross product. After completing the three-year arrangement with the IMF, and this government has already passed three revisions of the agreement with this international organisation, we expect this last sixth revision in November this year, we will, as you know, receive an additional $700m debt from the Paris Club, so Serbia's public debt will be reduced to 50% of the social gross product at the end of this year. Because of those who talk to the public about the possibility of a debt crisis, I want to give some information that I have never presented before, which is available in international statistics on public finances. Of course, Serbia still belongs to the middle-indebted countries, and of course we have to make efforts to reduce our public debt, especially in view of what the external debt on the basis of private borrowing will inevitably grow and we cannot and will not limit it, because it is clear that citizens have to take home loans, that the economy has to take loans to buy equipment, in order to modernise its production. But we need to keep the total level of external debt, which includes private and public, under control. The only way is to reduce the share of public debt. Otherwise, many countries in Europe have a higher level of public debt compared to a social gross product than Serbia. I'll give you some of those countries. So Serbia currently has a public debt ratio in the social gross product 56%. The following countries have a higher figure: Austria 65%, Belgium 66%, Cyprus 72%, France 66%, Germany 66%, Greece 110%, Hungary 61%, Italy 106%, Malta 80%, the Netherlands 56%, and Serbia, Portugal 62%, Turkey 73% of the public debt in the social gross product. None of these countries, except for Turkey, have had major payment and balance crises. Turkey was the only example of countries that had such crises. Why? Because those on the one hand are experiencing high economic growth, and on the other hand they are mostly lenders countries. So they have a mostly high internal debt, and in Serbia, the share of internal and external debt in public debt is about half-a-half. Something bigger is external debt, because we have an old foreign currency savings that we inherited from the past. Otherwise, developed countries have a high internal debt created by borrowing the state in the capital market by broadcasting the vault bonds. They do not have an external debt and are therefore not exposed to the dangers of an external debt crisis. Small countries and developing countries have external debt and the only external debt is actually something that is a serious threat to a high level of debt and debt crisis. Of course, Argentina had both. Argentina also had a high level of external debt and a high level of public debt, which is not the case in Serbia. Their case cannot be compared to ours, because they had several hundred percent share of the debt in the social gross product. Serbia has managed to reduce this from 170% to 56% at this point, and 50% will be by the end of the year, and indeed we now have conditions to reduce public debt, but the overall level of external debt due to the growth of private debt will remain constant and that is why we have to have a surplus to reduce the share of public debt. As for the repayment of the public debt, I must say that the reconciliation of the old foreign savings, which started since 2001 and which has been done neatly so far, has really significantly increased confidence in the overall banking system. In fact, the total level of foreign savings in banks in Serbia will exceed two billion euros this year. Currently, a billion and 750m euros, only in June, have increased the level of savings by 70m euros, which means that regular service of commitments from the previous period and how it affects the return of trust. To remind me, at the end of 2000, the level of savings in domestic banks was 10m euros. Today, there are nearly two billion euros, and that is a significant progress, although another good part of the money is out of progress and it is our job to constantly improve the business climate and trust, so that citizens can invest in banks and put it into business development. Of course, another parameter is more than fascinating, and so on. (YILD) juld or contribution to old foreign exchange bonds. When the old foreign exchange savings bonds were issued in 2002, the total foreign exchange contribution was 20% annually. It's below 5% a year today. This is the minimum, lowest possible jild, i.e. the contribution paid to government bonds, which means that trust has increased, the risk is far lower and those who buy bonds, both private and institutional investors, trust the state and therefore the interest rate is now below 5% a year. Also, this year, for the first time since the issued bonds of the Treasury in Serbia, we have begun to repay the debt and reduce the level of duty. This resulted in a decline in the interest rate this year on the Treasury bonds from 22% a year, at 14.8% at the last auction of the Treasury bonds a week ago. So it's a downturn of over 7%, regardless of the level of inflation this year is slightly higher than projected. It says that a high level of trust in the state records of value, which is one sign of stability, is not just any sign of stability, but one very significant sign of stability in our macro-economy. Another reason Serbia needs a surplus today is that we need to improve the external trade balance. In terms of transition, when one part of the economy is restructured and privatized, a good part of the economy, but also the part that still has losses, every excess domestic demand is being poured into the growth of demand for products. Excess domestic demand does not lead to the growth of domestic production, but is primarily poured into imports of goods from abroad. So, in conditions where the economy is not yet fully restructured, when the privatisation process is not completed, then the domestic demand acts not only inflatively, but increases imports, because simply that surplus demand is then being poured into the purchase of goods from abroad, unless there is enough quality domestic supply. I would say that at this point about 50% of the Serbian economy is in a solid state, 50% is in desperate condition. So, I would say that this relationship is half-and-half and the government's task is that these remaining 50% economic policy measures, by speeding up the restructuring and privatisation process, will enable them to be competitive, so at that moment the demand that exists on the domestic market will be more directed towards domestic products and less towards import goods. In 2005, just as in previous years, we have this situation that the surplus domestic demand is affecting the growth of imports and that is why we have already implemented fiscal adjustment at the end of last year. The results are more than obvious, we've increased 52% of our exports in the first five months of this year. Imports decreased by 4%. We have a 27% foreign trade deficit decline in the first five months compared to the same period last year. However, if we look objectively at the situation, last year Serbia really had too much deficit in the current balance of payments account, it was 15.7% of the social gross product. When we made the budget, we began to assume that this deficit would be 13.7% of the social gross product. However, in the last two months, due to the introduction of VAT, many have imported goods and stored it to avoid paying VAT on imports at the border, so that 2% of the social gross product in the last two months has worsened the external trade balance, which we could not predict for sure when we were working on the 2005 budget. For this year, our goal is to reduce the current balance of payments deficit to 11%, so from 15.7% to 11%, and it's really a high-level knock-off of the foreign trade deficit. For example, 1% of the social gross product is equal to 16 billion dinars, which means 5% of the social gross product, you can calculate for yourself, that's 80 billion dinars, how much the current account deficit should be this year compared to last year. According to data for the first five months, we are convinced that not only will we achieve this goal, but we will probably outnumber it, given that, in order to achieve this goal, export growth of 25% this year is needed and imports of 9% are growing. Since we have 52% of export growth after five months and import growth is less 4%, it is possible that the current balance of payments deficit, especially given the fact that Serbia will have a surplus this year instead of the expected deficit, will be lower. Why is it important to reduce the current balance of payments deficit? Because the deficit is financed by borrowing and not by borrowing the state, but by borrowing the private sector. On the one hand, no one can say it is bad if the private sector buys equipment and it is good to spend money on buying equipment and modernising the Serbian economy. It's good for citizens to take credit. But, on the other hand, it has to be kept in mind that the overall balances are maintained, that is, if we already have the growth of private debt to bring down public debt, and that is why we have to have a surplus in the budget this year. The third reason Serbia needs a surplus this year is because we have already reduced certain tax rates, primarily the profit tax rate which is now the lowest in Europe, we have abolished the financial transaction tax since 1 January of this year. In July of last year, we abolished the profit fund tax, abolished a number of excise duties on certain products. The last tax rate that is still too high in Serbia and which is needed to lower is salary tax. The surplus in 2005 is, in fact, the preparation of the ground for reducing salary taxes in 2006 and this is the last tax rate in which Serbia is not a competitor compared to other countries. However, the logic is, given that we have to have a stable budget financing, to first make a surplus, so that we create from that surplus a base to lower the salary tax, because if we were to lower it, given another amount of grey economy, which is probably 30% in our economy, maybe something lower, maybe between 25 and 30%, it would be a huge risk, would then the state have enough income for the regular execution of expenditure, and therefore we decided to make a more cautious policy, to make a surplus first, so that we would also lower the wage tax and bring it to the level of the most competitive countries in Europe. So, we're preparing the ground, and over the next year, pay tax cuts will be done. No other tax in Serbia can be reduced anymore. Simply, other tax rates are already very low, VAT is below the average in Europe, that's 18%, and if you see the VAT rate in other countries, they're far higher, they go from 20 to 24%. The profit tax can't be lower than this and it's the only income tax left. The contributions cannot be reduced, given the situation in health insurance funds, and above all the pension fund, so that the only tax that can be reduced is the salary tax, especially given that local self-government is also achieving a very good balance this year, since local self-government had a higher surplus than the central government. The local self-government in the first six months, regardless of many criticisms that the introduction of VAT will reduce the revenues of local self-government budgets and that the mode of transfer payments and distribution of public revenues to the locality will be discriminatory, has achieved a surplus of 5.2 billion dinars, significantly more than the republican budget, of which the cities of 3.8 billion, and municipalities of a billion and 400 million dinars. This year's revenue growth in municipalities was on average 22% in the first six months compared to the same period last year, significantly higher than the inflation rate, as the inflation rate in the same period was 8%. So, real income growth has been achieved. That's why we decided that transfers to local self-government remain unchanged in this rebalancing, so 13.8 billion dinars. By noting that we want to further improve the position of local self-government. The finance ministry sent to the government's procedure on Friday a law on the property of local self-government, which suggests that the property of local self-government be transferred to local self-governments, in order to carry out even greater fiscal decentralisation and that local self-governments can freely dispose of their property, and also use it as collateral for possible borrowing under the newly adopted Public Debt Act. You know for a fact that local self-government can be owed up to 50% of the previous year's income in one year without paying off the principal and the public debt interest should not exceed 15% of the budget in one year. The law was passed on Friday, and we expect that all local self-government can use it after the entry into force. In order to effectively use this, the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities proposed, and the Ministry of Finance supported and submitted the proposal to the government, and I expect the government to adopt it, therefore, a law on the property of local self-government. We also intend to adopt their proposal on the criteria for the distribution of transfer funds to municipalities before the adoption of the 2006 budget, because you can see for yourself that a surplus has been reached globally, but I must say that there are some municipalities that still have a deficit. As a result, the Budgetary System Act provides that municipalities with deficits may be subject to a decision by the government to supplement existing revenues from the current reserves. It's about lowering the salary tax next year. The fourth important goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to eliminate any delays the state has in the past towards different budget users. We do regularly settle all obligations and all budget beneficiaries receive 12 months' fees in accordance with the budget. However, it is clear that the state and government inherited debts from the previous period. One-and-a-half pensions are owed to PIO insurance companies, 22 months due to farmers' pensions. These are significant amounts that cannot be reconciled in one wave. However, I would like to take this opportunity and, before you, before the MPs of the National Assembly, to announce that in August of this month, it will be proposed to this assembly, after the summer break, the law on the conversion of obligations to pensioners, both farmers and those who are insurance workers' pension fund, to the public debt of the state. We, just as we regulated the problem of old foreign savings, will issue public debt bonds and pay the total debt to pensioners from this surplus within three years for pension fund insurance employees. It's worth more than 20 billion dinars, it's impossible to pay off in one year. The first payment starts on January 15th 2006, so two days after the Serbian New Year. Agricultural pensions, too, are huge, over 20 billion dinars, four months of pensions will be paid back annually, and the payoff starts on January 15th next year, by returning agricultural pensions within five years, because it owes far more, it's 22 pensions, four pensions a month. The law will be found, I'm sure, in front of you by the end of August, and we have prepared it at the Ministry of Finance and expect the government to adopt the proposal. This way, we will fully settle the delay towards the pensioners. We wanted to legalize it through the Public Debt Act. Of course, those who wish can, as well as bonds of old savings, sell them on the capital market. The price will be market-based, so bond trade will be made possible and these bonds will bear the appropriate interest. So this way we're going to put an end to all the debts that the previous governments have accumulated towards pensioners, whether it's farmers' pensions, or pensions based on the PIO staff fund. It is not possible to do so in one year, but in three years, pensioners will be settled, and farmers will be able to sell bonds in the same way as in old foreign currency savings. These are some key reasons why Serbia needs a surplus right now. I'll come back to that one more time. Now I'd like to introduce you to the macroeconomic assumptions on which this budget was made. As you know, economic reforms and improved business climate have been significantly accelerated this year. Given that there are conflicting opinions in this assembly and in the public, as I have already suggested, today I will speak unusually for a long time and I want to speak openly about every problem of what is done, what are the problems and what must be done in the future, no matter what the government is concerned. As for structural reforms, the key to long-term macroeconomic stability is the balance of the external trade balance, but it cannot be balanced only by monetary and fiscal measures. It is clear that monetary and fiscal measures alone can, on short notice, remove the damage caused by structural disturbances in the economy, but in order to create long-term macroeconomic stability, structural reforms need to be completed by the end. I'll say what structural reforms are, what has been done so far, and what will be done in the next period. First privatisation of banks. The privatisation of banks will be completed by the beginning of next year. So this is one of the reforms that ends. This year, tenders for privatisation of three banks in Serbia, Novosadska, Continental and JJ banks have already been completed. The total privatisation revenue for these three banks is 275m euros or 22.5 billion dinars. Otherwise, the total privatisation income this year, which will be in Serbia's budget, is at least 27 billion dinars, five and a half times more than in the previous year. I must say, despite some lonely opinions, that what has really been done in the reform of the banking system is among the most successful reforms in this sector in general done in Central and Eastern Europe. In view of the fact that of the one full insolvency and insolvent banking system, which we found at the end of 2000, we now have a banking sector that doubles its balance sheet each year, we have banks that people believe and invest in savings and finally, the prices achieved in the privatisation of banks in Serbia are absolutely the most in Central and Eastern Europe. The latest example is the most illustrative, example of the privatisation of Novosadska Banka, when the price reached was 3.3 times higher than the capital of the bank itself. So it's really an absolute record that has been achieved so far in any privatisation of banks in Central and Eastern Europe. In addition, the strongest private bank that took over in the Novi Sad Bank international tender has pledged to invest an additional 40m euros in housing lending programmes, loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, for its large clients, as well as to increase the number of employees by 40%, so that the number of people in Novosadska Banka will not be reduced but will be increased by 40% by 2008. None of these banks, which are privatised, will reduce the number of employees, on the contrary, only growth in employment will occur. As for the privatisation of other banks, a tender for the Low Bank is under way and the three banks are currently interested in privatising the Low Bank, but until the final bids are made we cannot talk about it. These are just banks that have expressed interest. Also, the Credit Bank is in the privatisation process and should be completed this year. As far as the Commercial Bank is concerned, the state intends to remain in national ownership. So, the Commercial Bank will not be offered to strategic partners from abroad, but will remain the largest national bank, by considering and preparing a tender for a consultant that would privatise this bank in the next three years on the capital market on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, where small packages would be for a large number of users and so that this bank could have dozens, not to say hundreds of thousands of small shareholders, according to the reputation of some other banks in the world, but would be domestic owners. The commercial bank, now I can say openly because that process was near the end, was the only bank that was able to withstand foreign competition. It was not this government, nor the previous one, that made a decision to privatise some banks because it was a wish or will. They simply could not withstand competition from abroad on a long-term basis, both due to lack of long-term funding sources for long-term loans and some other problems. The commercial bank was the only large domestic bank capable of resisting foreign competition and therefore has no reason to offer strategic partners abroad. As far as businesses are concerned, we have achieved 5.3 billion dinars in the first six months of privatisation of social enterprises, out of which 2.5 billion were paid into the budget, since the rest of the law goes to the Pension Insurance Fund, local self-government, the Restitution Fund. We expect about 5 billion dinars of privatisation revenues by the end of the year, so another 2.5 billion dinars for the budget. For the first time this year, the restructuring of public enterprises began. We announced several activities in the Assembly when we adopted the 2005 budget in November. I can say that we are all what we have announced and accomplished, and I will tell you what has been done so far and what we intend to do. First, it was implemented by appropriate laws to reorganise some large public enterprises, notably EPS, then Railways, by segregating into several segments; the next step was to separate parallels from the basic activities and transfer these secondary activities to the authority of the Privatisation Agency and prepare for the start of privatisation. At the end of June, 36 different companies from the secondary activities of public enterprises were transferred to the Authority for Privatisation and are scheduled to begin the privatisation process in the autumn. As you know, the law makes it possible formally for public enterprises to have the opportunity to give one part of the stock to free workers and former employees. However, there is not a single sublegal act which is precise. This is why the government intends, in order to speed up the motivation of employees in public enterprises, to give 15% of the total capital of public enterprises free of charge to workers, both existing workers and former employees, or pensioners of these public enterprises, in order to achieve 15% of the privatisation of those public enterprises that are privatised. In this context, it is clear that not all public enterprises will be privatised, because there is simply a certain public sector in all countries and some public enterprises have no interest in the private sector, e.g. The interest in railways is always low and therefore the state must take care of the railways and set out appropriate subsidies for it, and on the other hand there are segments where private capital is more efficient. That is why we plan to open a tender at the end of this month for the selection of a privatisation adviser for parts of Serbia's oil industry. As you know, the government has decided to divide the oil industry into three segments. One of those segments is refineries and pumps. It is possible that early next year, an international tender will be offered for privatisation, but the privatisation adviser should make a proposal whether to go to refineries and to pumps at once or to go to pieces. That's why we're going to hire an appropriate consultant in the tender, which we're going to call by the end of this month. Also, some costs were rationalised in the work of public enterprises. For example, some over 10,000 people are no longer working in the basic activities of these public enterprises, and about 5,000 people are now deployed in companies that are in secondary activities, while about 5,000 people have so far sought and received stimulating severances, so they have voluntarily left these public enterprises. In doing so, there are several more thousands who have applied for voluntary departure, which will be realized in the second half of this year. These funds were provided by both public undertakings themselves and some companies that are on the budget, such as the railways, and the Transition Fund, and for some other payments, loans from privatisation revenues have been granted, with the obligation to return those loans from the sale of property from secondary operations. As far as the next step is concerned, it is a privatisation of the basic activities of public enterprises, with a strategy for NIS. Meanwhile, the resolution ministries will develop a privatisation strategy for some of the basic activities in other businesses. It is certain that some public enterprises, i.e. their basic activities, will not be privatised. Another industry went into the restructuring process this year, and this is the dedicated industry, first by reducing surplus employees. So far, severance payments have been paid for about three and a half thousand workers. About 1,400,000 dinars from the budget were paid in the name of severance. It's a significant downsizing of employees. It's about six plants of the dedicated industry, which now have the opportunity to finally start operating profitablely. So the plan is: the privatisation of the banking sector ends next year, the privatisation of social enterprises ends by the end of 2007. We are not satisfied that the bankruptcy institution is still alive, because one good part of the non-proliferation social enterprises has no other way of finding a buyer, except for the full write-off and the take-over process being carried out in the bankruptcy process. Although we now have good legislation, this process must be speeded up and bankruptcy becomes a normal market category, rather than being referred to in a negative aspect. The bankruptcy is a very positive thing in market economies, if implemented in a transparent way. If the company has huge debts and if no one is interested in buying it, it can either cramp in those debts, not pay the workers' salaries, that it cannot sell goods on the market, or go into bankruptcy and that in a quick procedure, without these debts, it is taken over and that a completely new company is going to work. After all, an example that is contradictory and controversial, since it has not been carried out under some clear regulated law, but it is still an example that, in the extreme line, is good, which is an example of the bankruptcy of Sartida. You had a company full of debts, two-thirds of Serbia's battery swallowed "Sartid". After the bankruptcy and takeover by U.S. Steel, Sartid is the largest exporter, 250m euros were achieved in the first five months alone. So the only problem with this bankruptcy was that it was done without the proper bankruptcy law and there were relevant problems, where the competent judicial authorities should say their last word about those people who participated technically in the business. However, the bankruptcy institute itself has shown efficiency in this case, because we have a company that has been bankrupt, which is now producing the largest export revenues in Serbia. Therefore, there is no need to run, unless there is a buyer for a company that is full of debts and which cannot settle those debts, nor can these debts be fully written off, because not all government debts, you also have commercial debts that cannot be written off, there is no other way but to make a quick bankruptcy and take over in one transparent procedure, which was not the case of Sartida, but the ultimate effect has been achieved, to take over in one fast and transparent way, but in accordance with the law. The government has proposed an appropriate bankruptcy law and now there are all legal conditions to do so effectively. I think it's only supposed to get faster in practice. One of the biggest problems our country has ever faced and faced, I have to say and will face in the future, is the capacity of the state administration. For example, I think at this point, after this assembly passed 87 laws last year, after adopting, I'm sure, over 50 laws this year, and that it will adopt probably hundreds of laws by the end of the year, there are no longer laws for any faster development. The inauguration of these laws is what is most important. As far as the state is concerned, the capacity of the state administration is the greatest limit, bureaucracy at all levels, and I will be open, from republican to local. There's a difference here. Those ministries that have a better administration, regardless of who the minister is, work better, and vice versa, those local self-governments that have a more efficient administration, are also better, independent of which party is in power. There's really no rules there. On the other hand, the more complicated the process, the less business climate. I'll give you an example. The finance ministry, together with the Ministry of Education and Sports, has proposed that around 180m dinars be paid out of the budget reserve this year to build different sports facilities in 20 municipalities in Serbia. That decision was made in the first week of June. To this day, only one municipality of all procedural forms has fulfilled and withdrawn these funds - Chačak. These are the municipalities that we've allocated funds to, where all parties are in power. There are also radicals, and DSS, and DS, and G17, literally all municipalities are represented. However, some municipalities are very slow to complete the documentation, some municipalities have no urban plans at all, some municipalities cannot provide these building permits, the tender process to implement effectively, some work significantly faster. Only Cacak has withdrawn funds so far, and I hear that this week and Ariel will withdraw those funds. This only speaks of the efficiency of local self-government. I really don't want to go into party management. Some other municipalities, I just can't. At the end of the year, if someone does not use those funds, they will fail and complain why the government has not given funds. One example: Serbia will receive significant funds in the EU accession process. That's what they're called. Pre-accession funds. However, experience in spending these funds is very different from country to country, and that depends solely on the capacity of local administration. For example, Slovenians managed to make use of 97% of all EU funds granted to them in the EU accession process because they knew exactly which projects could be implemented. They applied for projects where they had documentation, they built an administration that dealt with it independently of the government, and 97% of all funds were used. Hungarians, which I would not say are inefficient, especially with some other countries in mind, only 55% of the money was used by the EU because they could not process projects that were approved, due to the narrow capacity of the state administration. Greeks, in time, when they joined the EU, did not use more than 40% of the EU's funds for accession, which does not mean that they did not receive significant funds, but could get twice as much. It will be the same with Serbia. It is therefore very important to strengthen capacity and local administrations, as well as government. To that end, we reduced the government's state administration by 10.3% in June this year, which will bring us income savings and here in the rebalancing, item -- wages in the state administration are a billion lower, precisely because of the rationalisation that the Serbian government has done, as it has announced. We've reduced by 10.2% the number of government employees, of which the largest number in the finance ministry. The finance ministry now employs 1,700 people less, out of which 1,200 people are less in the tax administration. This is data without an army. If we add the army, then that savings is even bigger. I'm talking about reducing the number of civilians in the army. Of course you can't reduce the state administration to unplanned, without objective criteria. I suggest to all those who have ambition, desire and need, I mean local self-government, to rationalise the state administration, to do it on the basis of testing, or objective criteria, as did the Ministry of Finance, so no one can complain. So, scores from one to five, knowledge tests, psychological tests, all that when you look at it together, who gets the unit doesn't have the right to complain, regardless of whether it's a member of a party, how old it is; five to six directors have been replaced by the IRS, no matter what they were members of the G17 plus, because they got a unit on the test. We don't want to have such members. Members of other parties were given units, but I only want to talk about what is our party's business. We can't have an effective state administration unless the best people in it work. As for the business climate, several factors have affected the improvement of the business climate. First, Serbia first received an international credit rating from Standard and Poors last year, meaning an international London credit risk assessment agency. He was then improved in front of the annual European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Assembly, so we improved our credit rating within six months. Also, the government has managed to obtain a positive EU feasibility study and preferential treatment for textile products. These two factors have significantly affected credit rating growth and improved business climate. Then, we got a general preferential treatment in the trade with the United States. In the World Bank Study, which assesses every year the business climate in a country, Serbia recorded the biggest relative progress of all countries this year, as we have progressed for as many as 20 places on the board of all countries in the world -- at the speed of company registration, by efficiency in general, according to the business climate. The only major limiting factor, which remains to be removed, not only during the government's term of office, but I would say that this is a long-term process and that this will be a task in the coming period, is to improve the efficiency of the judiciary, i.e. by making judgments, which must be significantly accelerated. Serbia is still far from having an ideal business climate. We're still below the average of the world. But compared to last year, we made 20 places on that scale, and in that sense we made the biggest relative progress. However, there is still a lot of work left to be done. This year, as a result of improving the business climate, we expect record foreign direct investment of about two billion dollars. If we remember, record foreign direct investment has so far been made in 2003 -- $1,450.000, and last year - $960 million. We've had a fall in direct investment. They were objective reasons: first, the government was not the first three months of last year formed, while it managed, while it effectively started working, we were actually seriously starting to work since September last year. When I say it seriously, I mean all the ministries. I admit it openly. In the meantime, we've improved the business climate. This Parliament has done something that is certainly commendable. A huge number of laws have been passed. As a result of the positive feasibility studies, as a result of the privatisation of the banking sector, half of these foreign direct investments will come through the banking sector, whether it is the privatisation of state banks, whether it is the takeover of private banks in Serbia, as some of the largest banks have decided this year to enter Serbia, from the Bank of Intese through the Credit Agrikol and Erste. So, indeed, our banking sector is now incomparably stronger than it was last year. On the other hand, the problem with statistics is that greenfield investments are not included in the industrial production index in an adequate way in the current year. That's why we're not worried about the fact that the industrial production index, I'm talking about physical volume, is somewhat lower in the first five months of this year than in the same period last year, for the simple reason that this is a direct consequence of the reduction of subsidies to losers. Last year we had 6.5 billion dinar subsidies. Now we have predicted 5 billion and a direct reduction in subsidies by 1.5 billion has contributed to a decline in production in these companies, which otherwise accumulate losses. But the government's intention is to fully abolish subsidies for inefficient enterprises by the end of 2007, because simply by then these companies must be privatised. If there are not two successful tenders, if two auctions are not successful, go bankrupt and then privatization through the bankruptcy process. Simply, the process of restructuring and privatisation must end. In this respect, subsidies now given to inefficient loss-covering companies, for the payout of earnings, which are not earned on the market, simply have to be reduced. Next year, I can announce, they'll be around 3.7 billion instead of 5. Every year they will go down, until the end of 2007 they will be completely abolished. However, I note that the government has adopted a plan to address problems in cities that have enterprises, which swallow the most subsidies. These are: Bor, Kragujevac and Vranje. Today, Zastava spends a third of all subsidies in Serbia's economy. A total of 150m euros have been paid since 2001 to date only for the flag of cars in dinar wage equivalent, due to losses, without expenditure on the flag -- employment, which is in fact some kind of social assistance. It's clear that it's not a company that has some perspective, but it's been a forced solution without other components in the flag, the flag of arms and some other factories. Bor, a million euros per month goes to subsidize production in RTB Bor. However, the government has adopted the Action Plan and a tender for privatisation of RTB Bor will be launched at the end of this year. The solution for Bor is this: new findings require high investment, only concessions can be solved; they already exist, the Ministry of Energy has made a plan, these new findings must be activated. The problem with Bora is that it has a low percentage of ore, i.e. copper in total ore, and it's impossible to solve it this way. In addition, in order to facilitate the transition process in these cities, the government has decided to completely change policy, approve cheap interest loans of 0.5% annually for Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje. I forgot -- and Vranje has, too, factories that have significant subsidies from the budget, with the idea of opening up entirely new factories there, or that existing small and medium-sized enterprises are strengthening. We already approved the first loans at the 100 million dinar Development Fund session on Friday, two days ago, most of which was just from Kragujevac. It is just amazing that we have two cities in central Serbia - Cačak and Kragujevac, one of which attracts both foreign and domestic investors, and Kragujevac, on the one hand, has good private entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, huge problems in this social sector. The clear solution is that the social sector must be privatised as soon as possible, that money must be transferred from subsidies to completely new businesses. The process would have to end in some future period. So, as for macroeconomic assumptions, I would also like to say something about reforming other social activities. Preparations for health reform have been completed. They will go in several directions: firstly, it is offered to those who wish to leave the health institutions voluntarily, to do so. A survey by the health ministry reported about 8,000 people who wanted to leave the health care organization voluntarily. It's about spending of three billion dinars, which needs to be provided for the payment of stimulating medical severances, but it will allow, for the first time in a long time, to open a competition for the reception of new young doctors and nurses this year, because with this structure of people registered to leave, we're going to have a shortage of nurses and doctors, so this is more than it needs to be reduced in health care. So we're going to do two things, of course, if someone voluntarily wants to leave the health care center, we can't prevent it, and we're going to pay off the severances in three tranches, so we don't strike inflation and demand. So, a billion dinars in three tranches, starting in September. It will then create conditions for us to hire new young doctors and nurses -- about 700 to 800 people this year. It will also create a condition that, despite this new employment, we will increase the wage range to 4:1 for doctors, or 2:1 for medical staff, which is one of the promises that we have made to the health unions in time. This is the only reform that has the full support of the health union, given that we discussed this with them and at a session of the Social and Economic Council. Then, it will be done so-called. autsorsing in health care, where some of the actions that are not medical will be separated into special enterprises, so that the health fund can be deployed, so that it can play its primary role. Certain loans for the modernisation of health institutions are already being withdrawn, and these are World Bank loans. This rebalancing also enables the granting of a loan guarantee to the European Investment Bank for the modernisation of clinical centres in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad of 70 million first tranches, i.e. 150m euros, is a total proposal, so that all of these health centres are updated and placed in line with the most modern ones in Europe. One of the things that will change, in a conversation with the Minister of Health, we agreed to give by the end of September a formal plan that the government will adopt, we will change the way of funding by the health fund. In fact, the Health Insurance Fund now finance the costs of homes of health and hospitals, and as much as anyone is looking for material and medicine, it gets or doesn't get depending on whether he has money in the fund. We need to start funding the results, the effects. So as much as someone has patients, we have to get as much money for that purpose and depending on the demand of people to some health centers, we have to direct them to these health centers and hospitals that have more patients. Also, surplus assets will be sold and will be used to settle debts to suppliers from the past. It's another one of the debts that the state has left to settle through the health fund and it will be combined with payments from the budget. We, for example, have already, this month, paid 500 million for one tranche to suppliers and 500 million more next month. So three months and a half from now, we're going to cut our debt to the suppliers, but through the sale of some unnecessarily-needed assets, and that's going to be done. I'm going to tell you that this health reform we are working together with the European Agency for Reconstruction, which has given us, among other things, and one example of Great Britain, where the finance ministry at one point saw that the health ministry has had huge properties that are inefficient to pay rent to these facilities. After that, the health minister decided to sell everything that was extra, because he was more expensive to pay the rent to the state. We will not go after these drastic measures, but indeed the agreement is to make a list of the excess assets, to rationally use the property in health care and to concentrate all capacities on the facilities that are key. This does not apply to health homes that have to be widely distributed, but when we talk about clinical centres, hospitals, there must be a concentration due to equipment and professional staff. As far as macroeconomic parameters are concerned, I'd like to sum up. We have some parameters that indicate we're going in the right direction, and we have some worrying ones. As for those good parameters, export growth comes first. This year we have 52% export growth and we will surely achieve the goal of making exports grow at least 25%. Export coverage at this point is 47%, and it was 29% at the same time last year, which means there was a shift. Another good parameter is the growth of social gross product. This year, Serbia will have 4.5% of GDP growth, as planned, and the first quarter ended with social gross product growth by 5.3%. The third good macroeconomic parameter is the level of foreign direct investment. If you look at what caused the larger exports today, there are several factors. First, there are foreign direct investments from the previous period. Therefore, privatisation from the previous period and foreign direct investment from the previous period helped to win on our market and businesses, multinational companies that already have their export markets secured. If you look at the list of the first 10 exporters from Serbia, they are mostly multinational companies or domestic companies that work and have co-operation with multinational companies: "US Steel" comes first, "Tiger" from Piroth, who works for "Mischelin", "Synthelon", "Target Summer", means mainly all multinational companies. Then, copper and aluminium cylinders, where the exception is copper, and that's the domestic owner, and as far as aluminum is concerned, is a foreign company. When you add all of this up and subtract it shows the seven really a small country, such as Serbia, cannot export goods unless it has access to foreign markets, and it is impossible to execute it unless it meets one of the two conditions: to co-operate with a multinational company or to team up as domestic producers and then to perform together on the external market. What comes to all, and above all to the Government, but even more to the chambers – and I must say, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has grown, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is not an institution that looks at the modern future, but rather has some outdated views of the world in many ways – their goal would be precisely to organise small and medium-sized enterprises from Serbia and to organise a joint performance in exports. A small company can't do anything if it only goes to market. As far as other factors affecting export growth are concerned, this is the introduction of VAT. Why? Because VAT is now zero, with the right to deduct the previous export tax. All those who didn't have the motive until yesterday to show selling goods abroad, now they have that motive. Then, improving the business climate. Of course, improving the business climate and how it affected export growth. Example: Italy. Currently, Italy is one of the countries with which Serbia has a chance to achieve a balanced balance in foreign trade very quickly. Last year, in the first five months, we had a trade deficit with Italy of 190m euros. Today's deficit is down to only 50 million. We increased significantly, 40 to 50% export to Italy, and reduced the deficit by 30% by a year. This suggests that the business climate and co-operation with the Italian government in particular yields results and that we should go that way to bilateral relations with other countries. It's finally time to "attack" and those countries we haven't had much co-operation with yet, except in donations. This autumn, because of this, someone may be ridiculously looking at it, but I take it very seriously, I travel to Japan together with Pixie Stojkovic, with the idea of bringing really serious Japanese investors into Serbia, because they have about 250 companies currently working in Central and Eastern Europe. Almost none in Serbia. As last year, thanks to the activities primarily of Predrag Bubal, a lot of Italian businessmen came to Belgrade and this year they will come twice as many. Don't be surprised next year if some of the leading Japanese companies invest their money in Serbia. But to speed up even private domestic and foreign investments at all, it is necessary that this country builds appropriate free customs zones, but not like the current zones. The current zones, except for the Pyrots, are not practically free zones in practice. Why? If you look at statistics, far more goods are imported into businesses that work in areas than they are exported. That is why one large-scale control by the tax administration of all free zones in Serbia began this week, and only Piroth fulfils the condition that there is more exports than imports in the free zone. Together with the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad, we will make a new law on free zones and most likely that all available zones will lose their license to work very quickly, by the end of this year. We're going to start by issuing complete new work permits to those cities that are serious and that really have 50% of the production in the export zone. If you have an area that imports, not exports, then there is no point in forming a free zone. Also, I want to say something about poor macroeconomic indicators. First of all, that's inflation. Inflation's bigger than planned this year. Several factors have affected inflation this year beyond the plan. First of all, we had a significant increase in agricultural prices. In the first six months, the price of agricultural products, even though statistics recorded it, rose 45% compared to December this year. This means that, on the one hand, domestic farmers have had better prices. This is the result of the delay in the season. Probably because of delays in the season, however, import products are also asking the following question. Indeed, this is one dilemma I would like to share with you. Is the level of domestic demand in Serbia really so low, as it is said, when 45% of the more expensive agricultural products are bought? So these are the prices that are realised. I'm not saying the standard in our country is good. It's not. It improves slowly, but definitely something is not working with this policy. On the one hand, we must satisfy the interest of farmers to have satisfactory prices, and on the other hand, it is not good to have such high prices of agricultural products in the agricultural country. Of course, I hope we're going to seriously consider this problem, because for the first time he answered. Last year we really went out to meet our farmers and banned the import of meat. The price of cattle started to rise, which is good for them. On the other hand, we banned indirectly, through extra-carinal protection, imports of Turkish tomatoes. Also, tomatoes have a significant growth, a few-tenths score is the tomatoes I made in this inflation index. Another factor that has affected greater inflation growth than projected is greater than the expected growth of municipal services in local self-government. I think that Serbia must create regulatory bodies that will regulate policy not only the price, but also another type of policy related to municipal services, because this is how it is really very surgical to increase prices. I know that, in some cases, price corrections are needed, and especially if they are not marketable, but if the increase in the price of municipal services is being turned over to salary growth in these public enterprises, which is the case in a number of municipalities, then it is certainly not the measure of economic policy to be approved, but rather needs to be changed. We will propose to continue to form appropriate regulatory bodies, which Serbia does not have, to regulate certain municipal services. The VAT also did, but very small part, affected the price rise, far less than expected, because we reduced the tax on sales from 20% to 18% and there we had some savings. On the other hand, those prices went up from zero to eight. However, I have to say that unlike the price of agricultural products that have been increased by 6 months 45%, industrial product prices have increased only 5.5% in that period, which means that VAT has not had that effect, as it has been said, although one effect is. But far smaller than spoken. Of course, the rise in oil prices on the world market is an additional factor, which is not within the government's scope and scope of economic policy, however, regardless of this, inflation will be in last year's frameworks and the government's opinion is that inflation does not pose a threat to our economy. It would be better if it were something lower, but it's far more important to create conditions for long-term macroeconomic stability, and that, above all, by reducing the external trade deficit, which we will achieve, and by speeding up the restructuring of the economy that we are doing. Inflation a few percent higher than planned is not something that will disrupt plans in our economic policy, especially given what we have and the appropriate shock absorbers, which will not allow further price increases, except in the case of oil shock, which is a mandatory reserve. The central bank has already intervened by increasing the reserve rate, the central bank's response to the operation is also a significant amount of money withdrawn from circulation to reduce inflationary pressures. The country's foreign exchange reserves in the end line are record-breaking. This year, it's going to exceed $5 billion. It's currently $4.7 billion, so there's no concern that inflation is bigger than last year's. I hope next year will be far better. However, those who deal with economic policy know that it is impossible to achieve all economic policy objectives at the same time, for the simple reason that one year you can achieve 8% of the growth of the social gross product, 7% of the growth of production, as it has been, but therefore, the growth of the external trade deficit was huge. This year we're reducing the foreign trade deficit, but on this second plan, we have a slightly lower score. The important thing is that our economy is progressing slightly. Of course, one of the most important objectives of every government, including ours, is employment growth. That's why in this budget we have a billion and 600 million dinars allocated to micro-loans for self-employment, 7.5 thousand people will find jobs this year based on these loans. Also, the registration of liquor sellers has registered 10,000 people so far. So, 10,000 people have registered and paid a flat tax of 4,000 dinars since the beginning of the year, and we're going to have to do it by the end of the year and everything else, regardless of their protests, to register, to be loyal to competition for those who work in other trades. I will recapitulate why it is good for Serbia to have a surplus this year. Eight reasons. First, if we look at the longer term, each country should have a balanced budget. It's ideal for you to have a balanced budget. Serbia has achieved a budget deficit in earlier years. So the time has come for Serbia to begin to balance its budget. If you once had a deficit, you have to make a surplus, to have a balanced budget in some perspective later on. At the same time, Serbia until 2000 was a debt-indebted country with a public debt of 170% of the social gross product. We must reduce our public debt. The second reason, the surplus of the budget is the healthiest and most certain way to service external and internal debt, as the state does not owe additionally when it has a surplus, and tax revenues are stable and predictable. Third reason for surplus, surplus is the form of savings. If it had been saved before, it wouldn't have to happen now. If we save the country, it creates a certainty by guaranteeing that it fulfils its obligations. Also, the surplus allows privatisation revenues to be partly or entirely used to invest in infrastructure or other projects. What was the use of privatisation revenues during the previous government and last year? To cover the budget deficit. So this year for the first time, we're going to have at the end of the year a balance of 3.2 billion, plus a privatisation income of 27 billion, so 30 billion resources that we can make for certain infrastructure projects or a reduction of public debt. This year, thanks to the budget surplus, all obligations towards the travel economy will be met. Eight billion dinars totaled the debt the state had towards the travel economy from 1998 to today. We decided to pay the entire debt in three wars, June, July and August this year. So eight billion dinars of privatisation revenue go for infrastructure development. If we didn't have a surplus, we'd spend it on public spending, and the money from the sale of property would go into grants, because it would be spent. This is how the money from the sale of state property goes for the construction of state infrastructure, one part eight billion goes for that purpose. Also, I have already mentioned, I repeat once again, without surpluses in the budget, it is impossible to cut debts and settle them completely to pensioners. So, pensioners can count on the surplus to have a full pension payment, a month for the month, and what's piled up over the past few years, you can't get back unless you create on the other side anymore. We create it this year, so that we can pay eight billion pensioners in three years each year and fully settle our debt to the pensioners, and according to the farmers, too, except that there is an even bigger debt, four months more than next year, pensions to farmers, than so far. I know it would be ideal for us to pay for it all at once. First, it's impossible, because it would create a high demand growth, which would be too much for inflation and imports to grow, and it has to be allocated to certain years. So that no one can question this again and that all finance ministers in the future, since agricultural pensions are paid in the next five years, will be obliged to do so, we will pass a public debt law. So it becomes a legal obligation, as well as an old foreign exchange savings that became in 2002. Given that we have become a serious state, I'm sure any government will continue to serve it. Our government will serve it both in 2006 and in 2007. As for further reasons for the creation of surpluses, the surplus will help monetary policy achieve macroeconomic stability and reduce inflationary expectations. When the state has a surplus, it's clear that banks can't count on some large assets to be placed in government bonds, and why? Because we're not selling government bonds, we're repurchasing them. We will withdraw money from the optics, the banks will not be able to place it for us, the interest rate will be reduced, they will have to be placed by the economy and the population, and that is our goal. So we reduce our debt and allow that money to be placed in development projects, i.e. to improve population standards. Finally, the surplus acts on the decline in aggregate demand that always results in countries in transition having a reduction in the balance of payments deficits. I apologize for talking about the surplus for a while. But this is the first time since 1940 that Serbia has achieved a budget surplus. The situation is unusual, because we've been saying so far, if you remember what the budgets looked like in the previous period, how the deficit will be financed, so we said, from the privatisation revenues, the deficit is being financed. Now we finance the roads from the privatisation incomes, and we'll fund the pensioners' debt payments. Secondly, we talked earlier about funding from foreign credits, and now we're using credits to rebuild clinical centres. We use credit from abroad to modernise the economy. So, just for investment projects. The budget doesn't need to use credit anymore, because it has a surplus. The same applies to the European Union's macro-financial assistance. We'll use that money to early pay off some public debts, which opens up a budget space to spend more on investment. You'll see, I'll say it in the end, the current structure in the budget is not good. I'm not happy with her, even though she's far better than she was, but she has to be even better. As for the question of how to get to the surplus, one thing is what's in the plan, how we're gonna make it happen. I want to give you an answer to those questions as well. First, the revenues will be 9.3% higher than planned, 37 billion will have more income than we planned. Based on VAT, we have 42% more charge in the first six months than in the first six months of last year. Namely, the plan meant to charge 179 billion dinars of VAT. We will achieve 208 billion or 29 billion more than we planned. Then, I want to say that VAT has become the backbone of our public finances system. About 53% of total tax revenue comes from this single tax form alone. Given that, we must further streamline our tax system and base it on only six to seven tax forms. In other words, with a proposal for local self-government to get in charge of property, we will suggest that local self-government in some coming years begin to service all local taxes entirely, because simply, we have far higher tax administration costs if we do it as today. I think that with the centralization of local self-government, there will be far more jurisdiction, but also some major obligations, and one of them will be the service of completely municipal local taxis. So far, he's been helping out with some tax administrations. I think that by the end of 2007, local self-government in the process of decentralisation must also take over those responsibilities. As for other increased income tax revenues from the 10% profit tax, we have in the right half of the year 54% higher income, which means that more companies now show profits, because it's the lowest rate, and some foreign companies here are paying profits to pay a lower tax rate than in other countries, which is the intention of lowering the rate to 10%. We'll have a billion and 700 million more than planned. From income tax to 3.1 billion dinars, we'll have more than planned. So if it will be 3.3 billion more in the Republic's budget, given that 40% of the salary tax goes to local self-government, that means local self-government revenues will be higher this year. Out of the dividends of public enterprises this year we will charge five billion dinars, the collection of claims from banks in bankruptcy of 2.7 billion dinars, and, for the first time since the adoption of the Gamble Act, we will have significant funds from gambling taxation, 2.5 billion dinars this year. Last year it was a couple hundred million, comparisons for the sake of it. As for expenditure, there are expenditures that decrease, and some of us are forced to increase. As for reduction, spending in buildings and construction facilities is the most reduced. At different ministerial positions, 2.7 billion dinars totalled the decrease. Subsidies are being reduced by two billion dinars and this subsidy in agriculture by a billion dinars, noting that it is programmes that have not yet started this year. Therefore, these subsidies that are already in place will not be reduced. You already know for yourself that for many years in a row you give up the program to introduce lacto hairs and various musicians for agricultural households. The idea of the state was to share it for free to improve the quality of milk, there we'll have about 700 million dinars less than we planned, but it's a project that hasn't even started, so there won't be any damage to that. Then, the refaction for the gulf systems will be 200 million dinars smaller, because unfortunately this year has not been dry, we've already had floods and we have far fewer demands than we expected, I guess because it's a rainy year, so this way we're going to cut about a billion dinars of subsidies, but we're going to increase the expenditure on wind management, for mandatory livestock protection measures, 270 million dinars. As for the wheat premium, as the Government has decided, it will be paid in one day, directly to the accounts of registered agricultural producers, five thousand dinars per hectare under the wheat, and it will be the first time that the state will directly pay everyone a quota for wheat, but only for registered agricultural producers. When we introduced the registration a year ago, we said it would be one of the basic models for subsidising agriculture in the next period. Those who were not skeptics, and they were 120,000, registered and the first concrete benefits were felt after the adoption of the Excise Act, when we decided to refuse one-third of the diesel price for registered agricultural producers. This is the second big benefit for registered producers because only they will get 5,000 dinars per hectare plus 750 dinars per tonne. One more thing, this year we have paid about a billion and a half dinars of short-term loans for about 24,000 farmers and so far we have paid 928 million dinars of long-term loans of 2 billion, as far as we have. So we've paid half of it almost now, and that's been intensified in the last two weeks. It's already paid 928 million for long-term agricultural loans and we plan to open a new line that will be between this short-term and long-term loans line. It will be loans to prepare the autumn seed, with interest which will be almost realistically negative interest, because 3% of the year will be, but the dinar interest, not with the foreign exchange clause. This is aid to farmers due to a worse year than the previous and it will be loans per year in slightly larger amounts than those previously short-term loans, but less than these long-term ones to prepare the autumn sowing. Also, we have reduced the railway subsidies by 500 million dinars because the city of Belgrade has made a commitment, in a joint agreement, to finance the Beovoz programme, and in this way the subsidies will essentially remain unchanged for the railways, but from the republican budget it is 500 million dinars less. For 500 million dinars, subsidies to RTS are reduced, given that this institution is turning into a public service, which is why it is legally entitled to make a subscription. Now only from RTS, the resolution ministries depend on the moment of introduction of the subscription, with television staying on the budget this year with about two billion dinars and the government will, on a proposal from the culture minister, decide to write off the entire debt to RTS by 31 December 2004. I'm talking about a government debt to help TV transform itself into a public service. Also, we intend to grant a loan from privatisation revenues for the renewal of equipment amounting to 10m euros, so it will more compensate this reduction at the subsidy position. In total, the various expenditures are reduced by 8.9 billion, one of which is another significant pay item in the state administration due to a decrease in the number of people working after 30 June and rationalisation in the government of 10.2%. As for increased expenditures, several items are increasing, primarily by 14.6 billion dinar organisations, to the Republic Pension Insurance Fund 10.5 billion, since the current amount of pensions due to harmonisation needs to be increased. This will be an increase that requires an additional 10.5 billion dinars by the end of the year; the Republic Fund of Farmers 2.5 billion dinars; then the National Employment Service 1.6 billion dinars. I have to say that currently 1/4 of the budget goes for transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, and if we add that and social protection benefits, they are another 44 billion, of which 17 billion children's allowances and over a third of the budget are payments that are fully in social function. This is covering the deficits of different funds. As for pensions, as I have already suggested, this year we will have an increase in pensions by the end of the year, which will require 10.5 billion dinars. A total of 82 billion dinars will be allocated this year for pensions, only to cover the deficits in the PIO Fund. This is a major structural problem, I'm talking about a deficit in the PIO Fund, which can't be replaced by an increase in contributions that are already high, so the state has to take very serious steps to make and a view of future pension growth. Therefore, pension growth must simply be in line with the opportunities of the economy and that is something that is certainly necessary to do in Serbia in the coming years. I'm not talking about this year first. I'm talking about the period behind 2009 and beyond. Simply, Serbia will have a slight increase in standards. Now we have 3,000 dollars per capita, and in about a year to two days we'll have $4,000 per capita. The standard will grow slowly and raise the question at which pace it is possible to grow in the next period and pensions, with the country's obligation to make one realistic plan, but on the other hand to pay off all debts it has towards pensioners, which we will start from January 15th next year. The second major item that is increasing is the item of purchase of domestic financial assets. These are actual loans for different priority needs, for export, for housing loans, for self-employment, for Bor, Kragujevac and Vranje, and for the first time we introduce loans for publishers and book distributors. I'll explain that specifically to you in the cultural domain. The Transition Fund is the third major item to increase. A billion and 100 million dinars will be higher expenditures to speed up the privatisation and restructuring process of social enterprises. This way, with 6.1 billion dinars this year, all plans of the economy and labour and social protection ministries will be possible. What is also new is the government's young talent fund of the Republic of Serbia. We've singled out 450 million dinars in budget rebalancing for this year for a few purposes. First of all, for the scholarship of 1,000 top students in Serbia to 20,000 dinars net, then for the scholarship of 100 best students in Serbia to work at universities, for postgraduate studies at universities abroad, 15,000 euros per student, with the obligation to work in the country for at least five years after completion of postgraduate studies. These two competitions will be announced today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow in all means of public information. The postgraduate competition ends on August 31st, and for graduates, i.e. students of the final year of the university on October 15th. Then, we decided to allocate significant funds to reward the best students and students. I must openly say that the idea for this was given to me by a fourth-grade economic school student in kickinda. During his stay at a high economic school in kickinda, a young man said -- why wouldn't the government reward those who were successful in the competitions, and it really wasn't possible so far because the state had a deficit. Now we have a surplus that we can single out a part of the funds for those purposes. To win European competitions, the prize will be a million dinars, so around 12,500 euros, for the second place up to 700,000, and for the third place up to 500,000 dinars, depending on the rank of European or world competition. There will also be rewards for winning the republican, county and city competitions, for first, second and third places, so that our children are also stimulated by the state to achieve the best possible results. Otherwise, all grant winners, and in addition, up to 5,000 euros will be allocated for professional practice in the European Union countries for 100 best students, will be obliged to conclude a contract with the government to work in the country for at least five years after the end of their studies, as the state invests among other means in their education and to speed up the conditions of their work. In addition, the culture ministry's budget is significantly increasing, as this year it will total a billion and 300 million dinars, for various cultural needs, and for theatres, for theatre programmes, not for wages, but for special programmes for the preparation of various performances of 110m dinars, with the National Theatre in Belgrade receiving 70m dinars, the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad 40m dinars. Then, 280m dinars or about three and a half million euros will be allocated to the Serbian film. In addition, a double amount for the purchase of books at 70 million dinars has been doubled to allow publishers and those who produce the book to have better conditions. Namely, when we spoke in this assembly about the VAT Act, there was a proposal to bring the VAT down to 0% on the book, with the right to deduct the previous tax. However, in this way we would tear down the system we have and, as you know, we did not accept it, but we agreed with the publishers to provide, on the one hand, double the purchase of books, and on the other hand, to bridge their liquidity problems, to grant them loans, not only for publishers, but also for distributors, with an interest rate of 1% per year. That is why we have especially these lines, related to the acceleration of the development of culture in our country. 38m dinars will be allocated to the National Museum, and the government will provide adequate funds for the reconstruction of the roof of the National Library in Belgrade at the session this week, so that the large library fund is preserved. Before winter, that roof has to be fixed. Of course, you know that we have allocated 95 million dinars to rebuild the Hilandar monastery, as well as 120 million dinars, 40 million more than in the budget, to the White Court, for one of our greatest cultural and historical monuments. I must say that it is very little used in our domestic tourist offer, and during the annual assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the greatest impression of people who came from abroad to Belgrade took it right from the White and Old Court, from the court complex. That's Serbia's treasure, and I think this is the minimum amount we could have invested. He is also open to domestic visitors, however, I think few people know that it is now possible to visit and arrange a visit. They have excellent guides and I recommend to everyone in Serbia who has not yet been able to make that visit. Also, we have approved funds for the organisation of major music festivals in Serbia. The Exit Festival won 10 million dinars. This week, the festival in Guca will also receive 10m dinar support, given that it has exceeded local frameworks and has become an international festival and one of Serbia's brand-aids. Also, we have singled out 150 million dinars for reconstruction of the Horgos and Batrovci border crossings to allow far faster flow of goods. By the middle of next year, we'll have 16 lanes on the Batrovci, four freight cars, 12 cars. Finally, we will have a normal border towards Croatia. It is already open, but it will be put into full operation by the end of this year and the Horgos border crossing. The plan is to go to the reconstruction of the Presevo border crossing. Finally, with these new expenditures, the Ministry of Faith requested, and we were pleased to grant 15 million additional funds for the completion of Orthodox and other temples this year. As for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, total expenditures are 50.1 billion dinars, with a defence of 43.2 billion for external affairs of 4.2 billion dinars. As for the military budget, it remains in nominal amount unchanged, but changes in the structure of the budget are being made. Namely, the funds for salaries, military pensions and the military's ongoing functioning are increasing by the end of the year by a billion and 600 million dinars, and for this amount the funds for construction works are reduced, bearing in mind that these funds can also be realised as their own revenues after the sale of military assets. As for wages, this rebalancing allows for salary growth in the military by 14.5% on average, with an increase in the range between the highest and lowest salary in the army, from the current 3:1 to 4:1. Also, within the framework of the officers' salaries, there will be an increase in the range of some categories, between officers' salaries and the salary of soldiers under contract, from current 2,3-1 to 3:1. For example, pilot salaries would be 32% higher compared to the salaries of other professional soldiers of the same rank after the increase in these coefficients. This salary increase is possible from the October salary, and it is possible to implement the reform programme in the civil sector of the military as agreed. The current Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia on salaries of military employees and the Ministry of Defence planned for 35,459 employees, 24,197 professional soldiers and 11,262 civilians. It's a smaller number compared to what was the situation at the end of last year, given that at the end of last year 40.8% of civilians worked in the military, which does not exist in any army in the world. So no army in the world makes up 40.8% of employees. It is clear that it had to be started by rationalising the number of civilian employees. To date, that number is down to 35.4%, and by the end of the year should be down to 31.8%. However, due to delays in the military sector's reform, there was also an increase in salary expenditure and a delay in the salary hike planned. However, because of the savings made and due to these redistributions from the position of construction facilities this increase is possible to make at the latest from the salary for October, and even earlier if this process is accelerated. As for military pensions, 268 million dinars are increasing funding for military pensions. Also, 590 million dinars are being separated for the ongoing functioning of the army. As you know, since May, the military has finally been involved in a consolidated vault system, with much work left to do on the consolidation and settlement of debts the military has towards suppliers. The total amount of debts is about five billion dinars. So on all fronts there are different debts in the state, from external ones that we regulated with the Paris and London Club and other write-offs, to the internal ones that we regulated by the Law on Old Foreign Savings, a loan for the rebirth of Serbia. We are paying off the debts that the previous government has created by borrowing on the capital market. Why? Because now we have for the first time that possibility because we have a surplus. The remaining debts to the pharmaceutical industry, according to suppliers in the military, to pensioners. The plan, therefore, is this: pensioners are moving towards payment of debts from 15 January next year, and the Public Debt Act settles it. In the military, it is necessary to change people in the financial sector, for the simple reason that the purchases are made beyond the measure set out in the Budget Law, which this assembly votes. The purchases are made in a significantly larger amount than the budget allows. Second, then they pay off, that's what our budget control determined, they do over the line. It's one of the segments that would have had to be done significantly in the next period. That is why the talks, at the level of the president of the state and prime minister of the government, are also being held, to create a National Security Council, which would address these issues in a far more serious way, because it is clear that the military is the armed force of all Serbian citizens and that it is impossible for only one segment of society to resolve military issues, which is why it is necessary to form this council as soon as possible. As far as military property is concerned, it's the same thing. A consensus must be reached on what military property is to be offered for sale, and then through a transparent procedure, to sell military assets. Only property is now sold in Montenegro. Currently, Serbia's budget has not earned anything from the sale of military assets, i.e. facilities in Serbia, because there is no consensus on what needs to be sold and what is not to be sold. I don't know why these collapsed buildings of the Ministry of Defence would not be sold, but also the Federal Ministry of Defence, which are standing in Belgrade and serve nothing. Indeed, if someone says it is impossible to set up a hotel or another facility across the government, he has not seen what government buildings in other countries in Europe look like. But in order not to have one, two or three parties decide on it, let the National Security Council be established, let the Prime Minister and the President of the State sit down at the table and decide on what is the national interest that must be maintained, what military equipment, property, and what is unnecessary and what can be exposed to the sale and that the Property Directorate is then empowered to carry out the process transparently and effectively. It is possible to make money from that income to buy new weapons. We cannot ask Serbian citizens to give money for a new weapon, and we have enormous military property that stands untapped and out of function. So we have to be rational here. However, it is certain that the material position of military employees is poor. That is why we decided to raise salaries, where there will be an unequal increase for different categories; those who are officers will have a significantly higher salary increase - more than 30% compared to those with the lowest professional qualifications, which is what we also do in the army decomposition of wage relations. I said at the beginning that my exposés would be a little longer than usual, for the first time we're facing a budget surplus. Because of those who may be asking a question, which they are entitled to, why Serbia needs a surplus today, I tried to give answers. Asking if a government in Serbia had previously had a surplus, please give a short historical reminder for the past 200 years. So for the first time, Serbia achieved a budget surplus during the first rule of Prince Milos from 1815 to 1839. Then, in the period from 1839 to 1840, also during the first ministry and first rule of Prince Michael. Then, during the constitution of 1842 to 1858, we had a deficit. The second rule of Prince Milos, during that period, also reached a deficit, so that the deficit could be achieved during the second rule of Prince Michael from 1860 to 1868. Then, from 1869 to 1872, the government then had a surplus in the budget, so that during the liberal and conservative governments of Prince Milan from 1873 to 1880, it would also be a deficit. Progressive governments, which financed the development of the railway but also had a Serbian-Bulgarian war in 1885, also had a deficit between 1881 and 1887. After that, the radical governments are coming. They had different results in different periods. The first radical government, during the third replacement period from 1890 to 1894, had a deficit during the first period. Then, radical governments and court governments from 1894 to 1900, too, deficit. But radicals also achieved a surplus in the budget during Nikola Pasic, when the finance minister was Laza Pacu; from 1906 to 1911, during the time of Pasic's radical government, a surplus was reached in Serbia's 20th century budget. Then, between 1912 and 1923, the deficit was reached, so that from 1924 to 1926 during the three years, during the government of Dr Milan Stojadinovic, a surplus would be regained. In the end, Mr Stojadinovic had his mandate once more, but this time not only as finance minister, but also as Prime Minister and Finance Minister, when the surplus was reached, also in the period from 1937 to 1940. After World War II, a surplus has never been achieved in this country, and for a long time the budget has been done untransparently, because in one period, during the SFRY, even defence expenditures have not been treated as expenditure, but have not been recorded at all. Then, by this year, or last year, the Ministry of Finance never published detailed public expenditures. The Ministry of Finance has always published revenue before. Never before in its newsletter, which did not even exist, public expenditures have been announced, because on those items they were hiding, to be fully open, certain positions. For example, the debt of the Road Directorate, which was made in 2003, was not shown transparently in the budget, so, in fact, the budget deficit for 2003 was higher by several billion due to the debt of the Roads Directorate, which was regulated by the corresponding notes. This and some other debts can finally be paid back, given that for the first time now, we are achieving a budget surplus. (President: I apologize, do you want to use the third hour?) If you can, very briefly. So, because of the local public, and primarily because of you people's MPs, I wanted to point out that not only did Serbia have a budget surplus in its history, but it had it relatively often during those ministers who did their job well. Otherwise, when it reaches a budget surplus this year, Serbia will not be the only country in the world that has a budget surplus. I don't know how many of you know that. However, for those who do not know, I would like to say that the current budget has a surplus of the following countries in Europe and the world: Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, all Scandinavian countries - Finland, Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Ireland, of those non-EU countries, Russia has a significant surplus in the budget. Canada for the first time in the late 1990s has achieved a surplus and is now maintaining the budget surplus; South Korea, Australia, Singapore, New Zealand. So this is 15 countries that are typical and have a budget surplus. What countries don't have the need to have a budget surplus? Those countries that are not externally in charge, those countries that are international lenders and which have only internal public debt. Foreign debt countries have no way of returning them unless they make a surplus. Countries that have a combination of external debt and budget delays accumulated from previous years, such as pensioners, military and pharmaceuticals, perhaps some others, have no way of ever dying these delays unless they achieve a budget surplus. This government is responsible and therefore a decision has been made to make a surplus, even though we planned a budget deficit. What are our further plans? The plans are to change the structure of the budget in the next period in favour of public investment. I admit openly that the current structure of the budget, although slightly better than before, is still bad, because one large part of the expenditure goes to fixed, inflexible obligations and remains a very small space for public investment. All five percent of the budget goes to those real public investments, given that a third goes directly to the social, 20 percent goes to the salaries of various budget users, about seven percent to subsidies. The total debt payment is 10%, transfers to local self-government, the province and the state union are 19%, so public investment is waste only 5% of the budget. It is clear that it is impossible to increase the share of these public investments, because you cannot easily reduce the share of pensions, the share of social welfare, you cannot easily reduce material costs, because they are only 4.5% currently in the budget. You can reduce public debt, and we do that, you can reduce subsidies, and this government will work, and based on surpluses, you can increase the share of public investment. Everything else is a list of good wishes, and it's not real. So the plans are to reduce the additional public spending by 1% of the social gross product in the next budget for the following year, to significantly reduce public debt, to change budget structure in favour of public investment, to increase expenditure on infrastructure. We will already adopt concessions to build highways on the route of Subotica-Novi Sad and Belgrade-Požega in autumn, so that we will call an international tender and next year the construction of these international traffic stations begins. Also, the goal is to end the transition in Serbia by 2008. So, privatisation of banks in 2006, privatisation of social enterprises at the end of 2007, public enterprises and public services by 2008. I think this is a real goal, and I am sure with this budget rebalance, which I ask the MPs of course to support if they consider it justified, Serbia is one more step closer to a better standard and European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17773	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. First reports from the committees in charge. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No). Thank you. Did MP Zoran Krasic, who, at the session of the Legislative Committee, issue an opinion on the draft law on amendments to the Budget Law, want a word? Yeah. ) You have five minutes for a separate opinion, and then, in order to know the schedule, the presidents, or authorized representatives. The first came from Mr. Jovan Todorovic, and Slavoljub Matic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17774	At the session of the Legislative Committee, I singled out my opinion because I believe it is not possible to pass laws in this way. In fact, the draft amending and supplementing law for 2005 sets out new positions, new items that do not exist in the Budgetary System Act. But at the same time we are also offered to change the Budgetary System Act, then we practically have a situation where the budget rebalance proposal was made on the basis of a proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act, on the basis of two proposals we adopt two laws. It's just that there's got to be some order. First, the law on the budgetary system changes, on the eighth day of the day of publication, and then the rebalancing law. It's a natural flow of things that this government doesn't respect. In that sense, I've singled out an opinion. I have also issued an opinion on the fact that I believe that some of the solutions in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System are in complete contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, this refers to a change in Article 7, where the minister receives apostolic authority, where he can practically do whatever he wants with the budget, he can deny, he can approve, he can play Santa to local self-government, he estimates that he's making the rules, he can make it happen. Practically, after these two laws, if they are adopted like this, we need neither the government nor the National Assembly, because we have the Prime Minister of Finance who is under no control. As an example, I also cite Article 79. The law on the budgetary system, which is not even touched by these changes, as far as budgetary inspections are concerned. Someone missed it. Furthermore, what is legally impossible is what is in Article 74. Budgetary system law. Money fines for violations. The minister can owe the state, he can ruin public finances, he doesn't commit a crime, he can answer with a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. A new member of 73k, as they call it, if the minister calls someone and, by any chance, doesn't give notice, end of story, public finances in that municipality don't exist. This is where the SDK is made, G17 plus, and that's the Treasury Authority. It's illegal. This is where the provisions of Article 69 are harshly trampled. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for all positions, for all economic classifications in the budget as a legal source there must be a law. We don't have a law on a transitional fund, we don't have a law on some privatisation fund, we don't have regulations, and our government plays Santa Claus and says, we have some money, let's make some program and share. He can't. Every position, every item in the budget must have its legal basis. The legal basis is the law. The law stipulating the country's commitment to economy, agriculture, citizens, children, armies, etc. We've got a full glass here. The most important objection, and we'll probably have a chance to talk, since we've submitted a lot of amendments when it comes to the draft of the budget system, is this mirage called surplus. This is where we keep our circulations on some budget surplus and budget deficit. Some categories are invented, and perhaps analysts who monitor public finances should operate on such concepts, but this is not the place in the budget, is not the place in the Budget System Act. The National Assembly wants a clear picture of what incomes are, what expenses are, without any stories of any surpluses or deficits. The whole story has been moved so you don't see the secret accounts that exist, and that's why this SDK, the new G17 plus, is being created. We don't have a report on the state of public finances. Some praises are spoken here, the budget is owed to every user, and you know it yourself. This story with the surplus, since I'm running out of time, it's about like when you drive to a place and you say there's 100 kilometers and I need 10 liters to go, and I'm 12 in the tank, let me take these two away because I won't spend it. You go and something happens on the way, and you stop halfway, because you don't have gas in the tank. That's the story Mladjan Dinkic is forcing us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17775	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. From the president, or authorised representatives, the first, as announced, was MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then Slavoljub Matic, and Aleksandar Vlahovic. So there wouldn't be any incorrect data on the media, so no one spoke for three hours. Mr Dinkic spoke for two hours for five minutes and 45 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17776	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is difficult to find something after two hours of speaking and exposing Minister Dinkic without already being mentioned in this presentation when it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, as well as budget rebalancing. However, on behalf of the SPS, I will present several basic features of this rebalancing proposal, which I think is also necessary to clarify from the point of view of the results shown in the budget rebalancing and from the point of view of the consequences that arise. Of course I'm one of those who's happy when we don't have a deficit in the Republic budget. The Socialists, as you know, have criticised for the past three or four years every draft budget that contained a budget deficit and a particularly way of covering the budget deficit, as there was a fact that the deficit was normally covered by privatisation revenues. We here when we look at the 2005 budget score, the bar being projected, we have one, I would say, copernical twist compared to the time when in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 we had a marked deficit. As you know, in the 2005 budget, the budget deficit was projected with 20 billion and 500 million rounded, but when we look at the total fiscal score shown here in Article 2, then we see that we have a fiscal score of 53 billion dinars. This means a budget surplus of 32.5 billion and budget deficits up to today of 20 billion and 500 million. What does that mean? This means that in this year 2005, we came to project increased fiscal revenues by 53 billion compared to the situation we had on January 1, 2005. Now we can look at this thing differently. One will see only positive elements, and the other will see quite a number of negative effects that can come out of it. Why did such a fiscal result ever occur? Mr. Minister talked about it and I can agree with him on that. The majority of this fiscal result is precisely due to the introduction of VAT and increased tax collection by business entities, or natural persons. He's supposed to be careful here. What happened to us in the economy? Mr. Minister said that 50% of the economy is about solid, and 50% of the economy is not solid, but in a very difficult state. All these economic operators were obliged to settle their tax obligations to the state first because of the increased financial discipline. The state also has mechanisms for forced collection, etc. And because of increased discipline, we had a priority in paying taxes, or value added taxes. As a consequence, I have to say it very openly, because I experience it daily in business entities, we also have an extremely increased indifference of business entities, i.e. companies that are unable to reconcile their other obligations to suppliers, to workers, etc. As a negative consequence in the extension of that, we have irregular payouts for company employees. As a top result of these messy earnings payments, we have a lack of payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance in pension funds. As a consequence, we finally have a lack of funding in the pension fund and the need for the state to intervene in PIO through the budget and this time, i.e. to pour into the pension fund 10.5 billion dinars, in order to bring pensions into line with the cost of living and profit growth in 2005. So it's something that shows up as a result of increased fiscal performance and surpluses in the budget. It's something we need to worry about and find ways to solve this problem. I am deeply convinced that one or only measure can't be the National Bank's measure of reducing credit rating in the economy by increasing the mandatory reserve, to reduce consumption and thus inflationary pressure, or to reduce imports, let's say, and unnecessary goods. Increased indifference, it's a little paradox in our economy, increases actually cost pressure, and thus directly affects inflation growth. I think that these measures must be combined, that not only monetary policy and the reduction of mandatory reserves, or the increase of mandatory bank reserves, and thus the reduction of placements can result in both liquidity and orderly reconciliation of obligations towards the state. It is understood that when we look at contributions, we should keep in mind the following. We're a little unfair about that pension fund and the pensioners, and here's why. Because it insists that we have one quarter of the budget to set aside for these social benefits, or pensions. That's true when you look at numbers, but when you look at the history of it, then you find out that we had to cut contributions at one time, but we also increased taxes. When we increased taxes, we came up with an illusion in the budgets of three or four years ago that the pension funds were being increased from the pension funds budget and from those tax revenues. Normally, when you reduce the income of funds based on contributions and raise taxes, you do not reduce the total commitment of the economy, but in some elements even increase, then you create an illusion that you from the budget, citizens of Serbia and all businesses are funding to the greatest extent pension funds. It's that injustice that seems to the pensioners. It's not fair that way to talk about it. I agree that we can't reduce the contributions, but we should also know this other side of the medal. If we cut our contributions, then you would really do something that wasn't recorded anywhere in the world, destroy the pension fund, destroy the pensioners, too, because everything that's been happening to us about the pensioners lately hasn't worked out for the pensioners. Now you see, I'm going back to these 32 billion budget surpluses. We actually have two surpluses here by this understanding. One is the one that's been allocated, that's about 29 billion, and that's 5.5 billion to cover loans based on the acquisition of financial assets and 23.5 billion based on the payment of the principal. If I were to make this draft budget, I wouldn't make this a surplus. I would say that as expenditure in the budget and the actual surplus would be exactly this point 3 - 3 billion and 240, i.e. three billion and 234 million. It's a real surplus of this budget. I do not want to defuse the result that Minister Dinkic here has pointed out for a reason, but simply points to one reality. If we had put that on the other side, we would have a budget surplus of three billion and 200 as it is. Now the key question for me is why, in addition to the certainly clear situation that we have moved from the budget deficit phase to the budgetary surplus phase, we need this point 3 to ensure that these three billion and 200 million are not allocated? I don't think that's even rational, because we're not the country that objectively achieved that surplus to the extent that we have met all the needs in the budget, realistically satisfied, that we covered all the expenditure, that we don't have any problems at individual functions in divisions, etc. Well, we have three billion for God's sakes, for saving, for paying back public debt, etc. That's not controversial. Imagine a host who would hold three thousand euros out there, while debting the neighbours, debting the state for tax, electricity distribution, water supply, heating heat, etc., while talking about the fact that there are three billion or three thousand euros. I don't think that's rational, because if I remind you that we're going to have to realize today that we haven't fulfilled our promise to farmers in terms of paying back pensions. When we adopted this budget, we were talking about six back-up pensions. I warn you fellow MPs that at this point we have a debt to pensioners who are using 20.5-dollar agricultural pensions. In the Minister's presentation, I heard 25, but well, 20.5. Those 20.5 pensions cost 21 billion dinars. Couldn't be a gesture to farmers' pensioners, given the state of agriculture, to pay at least one half of our pensions during this rebalancing. It's a completely open question to me, and you don't have to wonder, I'm a socialist, but even if I hadn't talked about it that way. It is true, we add to that PIO farmer 2.5 billion to this rebalance and that's true. At the same time, I point to data that contributions based on farmers' pensions are collected from only 16.5% when observed from January 1st - May 31st. If I understand correctly, that 16.5% is part of the planned funding at the annual level for PIO farmers, that we picked at least 40% on the basis of contributions. What's he saying? Farmers do not pay contributions to their pensions. And why aren't they paying? Because they can't pay, because at the same time, these days they get those solutions, they have to pay for health insurance 12.30%, and the other day we passed the Social Insurance Act, where we said the lowest basis for calculating the contribution is 40% of gross earnings made in the previous month. Now I ask you, how many peasants are able to make this commitment financially, so make peace with the state. Therefore, we are not yet in such a state that this pension fund for farmers is functioning and that, in my view, has made more important adjustments in this section regarding the increase in funds. None of the proposed increases are disputed, but I find much of the proposed cuts very controversial. First of all, I'd like to say a few sentences on the proposed increase. Export financing and export insurance agency 760 million. I welcome, but I'm asking if we can really boost exports with 760 million dinars, with less than 10 million euros. This is half of the projected founding capital at the Export Financing Agency, but if we really want to come from a predominantly import-oriented country to balance our foreign trade balance, then we have to have much more serious incentive for exports. I've seen, and we have 200 million for loans, for export financing, but I'm also asking that question, couldn't it now from this surplus and from these three billion dinars that most of the funds were allocated to grant such favourable loans? Of course I also welcome the funds for the Transition Fund, for Bor, Vranje and Kragujevac, 500 milli, but there we must not be mistaken that we can solve the problems of Vranja, Bora and Kragujevac with 500 million dinars. Because there are many devastated areas in the Republic of Serbia, and I come from such an environment, and many need 500 million dinars, in order for this field business to come back to life, in order for the road economy to be built, in order for the economic capacities to start working. Subsidy, we've stayed at five billion dinars. I have to realize that we have a realistically slow privatisation process. The restructuring of large enterprises and the privatisation of these large enterprises, and in order to maintain these companies, it seems to me that we may have had to even increase that part of the subsidies for this year 2005 rather than think about reducing them, because I fear that these companies will collapse in that case and only then will they not find a buyer. Because look at the structure of privatisation income, 27 billion, great, how much in what, five billion businesses, 22 billion bank sales. We should have 22 billion, but the real result of privatisation would actually be 22 billion based on the privatisation of the company. Unfortunately, we have companies in such a state that no one will buy them, neither live nor die. A company with 2,500 employees, like Viskoza in Loznica. In order for you to create such a factory with 2,500 employees, this country needs 200m euros. If you deny a subsidy to such a company, you shut it down. It's said, "forget it." Who will buy it in bankruptcy, because only then does not actually perform the work for which the company was founded, etc. I'm afraid we're getting into some things too soon, although I'm not opposed to reducing subsidies, because it has to be a logical consequence, a natural order of things. We can't get into this too soon, because we're gonna kill those who are sick with these too strong drugs. When you look at further reductions, it is especially painful when you try to justify the reduction of funds for the area of agriculture and subsidies. Please, it could have been so thought at the beginning of the year, but we had such a spring that fruit plantations were destroyed. We have such a summer, the beginning of summer, that we and what little we produced questioned, and when it comes to wheat, weather accidents, city, floods, storms, etc. The market mechanisms obviously do not yet work in a way that would meet the needs of the budget. We can constantly strive to be similar or the same as Europe, but give me a country in Europe that has no subsidies to agriculture. Which the country does not have a subsidy to agriculture. Why don't we have subsidies, why now we say, you have to go to the market. The villagers with the raspberries, with the cherry, can go to the market, but if what happens to us now is that at no such low ransom prices, not all the raspberries have been handed over, but a lot of it has failed, or cherry, then we have to think like real and serious people and make up for that damage he suffered in that way that he's not adapted to the market. It's very controversial for me, although I don't dispute the need for people to register as agricultural producers. You can't, Mr. Minister, for 120,000 registered producers to say, we're going to give you a premium for produced wheat of 5,000 dinars per hectare, and what about those 150-200,000 that also produced wheat and didn't register as agricultural producers. It can't be a punishment. It is a need for people to register, because it has many advantages. We haven't educated enough peasants or farmers, we haven't explained enough to them the advantages of this way of organising and registering, but we can't even punish them. The wheat has been produced, has not yet been harvested, but I can see that there is no such position in this proposal, perhaps in some others, so in the purchase of wheat, wheat premiums, storage. We have a government decision, I welcome that government decision because it is the consequence of what happened to us and unexpected, but if we're talking about the market in a way that we didn't tell the peasants in November last year, please don't sow the wheat because the state won't buy it, and today in July we won't buy it, then we're just not fair to those peasants. We cannot distinguish those registered as agricultural producers and producers but are not registered. Which means unregistered in terms of whether someone planted or didn't sow the wheat. We have reductions within the Ministry of Capital Investments, and from that we should conclude that we are all fine here, because this ministry has its own revenues, especially the Roads Directorate, through this Ministry we are carrying out loans, but I see that there is a reduction of a billion and 600 million of these two billion and 600, and that is obviously the story of the roads, because from that position we have the allocations to build road infrastructure in southern Serbia. There are many other areas of the Republic of Serbia where infrastructure is in a catastrophic state, and we should not cut those funds from the Ministry of Capital Investments and from that item of the Directorate for Roads and Construction Buildings, but against, to increase those funds. I haven't been able to say everything in 20 minutes, but on behalf of the SPS, we've submitted a few amendments, so when there's an amendment debate, I'll talk about it. In any case, I think this budget rebalance is much better than it was in the draft budget and it's encouraging that we don't have a deficit and that in the next 2006, hopefully, we're going in much more financially healthy than we've ever been before. These social categories, which I was talking about, are something that is part of the Socialist Party of Serbia programme and we simply cannot help but notice or not react to when these social benefits, particularly justified, are reduced in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17777	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17778	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS will vote in favour of the draft budget rebalancing law for the current year. We will also vote for amendments to the Budgetary System Act. We believe that it is necessary to make certain changes, especially those proposed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, because it is necessary to classify the surplus and deficit as required by international institutions, and that part of the Bill, the minister, has well explained and gave his reasons why Parliament proposes this law. What I would also point out is that this law connects the Treasury and the Public Payments Authority into a single service and it is covered by a large number of members of this law. It seems to me that in that part of the law he could have been in a smaller volume. Obviously, the need to clearly define the role of this unique service that unites the Treasury and the Public Payments Authority has been identified. What is really missing in the draft law on the budgetary system is a clear definition of the position of budgetary inspection. When we talked about the budget and the functioning of system institutions dealing with funding and budget, we pointed to the need on several occasions to simply strengthen the service of budgetary inspection. As far as I know, only 15 budgetary inspectors the country of Serbia has. I think for a huge number of budget users, it's too small a number. I think that in many local self-governments and in budget users in local self-government, at the level of the entire Republic, there is simply the possibility that different machinations may be of unlawful benefit and I think that a more serious concept of budgetary inspection must exist. Too bad this law didn't provide for the possibility of simply expanding the budget inspection with clear intelligence. What the Budgetary System Act also brings is the introduction of an economic and functional classification. What's missing, and I think it should be done in the most recent period, it's a programming qualification. In fact, many budget users go ahead of the budget, before the Republic government with their programmes. Unfortunately, we don't have the right feedback as to how these funds are really being spent. What is necessary through this is to bring and develop the concept of a consolidated balance sheet of the Republic of Serbia's assets. To ask the Republic Minister, the Republic Government, how much does it own, what the Republic of Serbia owns, I don't think any balance sheet can answer that. Of course, Serbia is burdened with bad property-legal relations, i.e. jobs burdened with the decades-long dying of the state in the sector. I think the country of Serbia, especially the Ministry of Finance, should work on a serious list of republican assets and on a balance sheet that will show what the property of the Republic of Serbia is. Of course, we are facing constitutional changes that will clearly define the ownership of the Republic and local self-government, but on that path. When we talk about the budget, I must say that we have listened to a motivated speech by the minister and certainly that the surplus in the budget is after so many decades, as the minister himself mentioned, the success of Minister Dinkic and the Republic Government. That should be commended. Better to have a surplus than a deficit. But this rebalancing suggests that, no matter what praises, we didn't have a good budget. the budget plan at the beginning of the year, somewhere in April, we simply didn't have a chance or time to start with the 2004 budget, and then the 2005 budget, with the right parameters, go to the MEPs and bring the budget law here. That's why this huge difference of nearly 77 billion dinars, of course, is in favour of the rebalancing, in favour of surpluses, but in the planning, it's obviously scribbled something. I will take this opportunity to tell the Minister that, I think, some very important republican institutions, such as the Republic Bureau of Statistics, are simply going public, very often showing a catastrophic situation in the country of Serbia. I don't think it's that difficult. Of course we're always on the verge and we have to fight for every penny, to spend it savingsly, but in any case, the Republic Statistics Bureau can't predict a disaster if the tomatoes on the green market jump from 50 to 100 dinars and it can't contribute to inflation to the extent that economists show up. I think there must be a clear mechanism between the republican executive authority and those assistants or important institutions, what exactly statistical institutions are, that have to read real information and go public with real information and support what the Republic government is doing. There are, of course, other than that, some other reasons why we've been assigned to do rebalancing. The first is the successful use of a multi-phase VAT. I think the value added tax shows its true face and that the fears we have heard from individual MP groups at the time of the introduction of the VAT have completely appeared to be unfounded. The VAT shows positive results, it introduces one seriousness in financial business, and I think it's very good and it's just a shame that we didn't introduce a value added tax before, which would certainly put more order in public finances, much before 1 January 2005. I also, like all other MPs, was very interested in what the effects would be. I think they're positive and I think that order has to be introduced. He of course costs, he costs and nerves, cost maybe in the sense that he should make some compromises. We can't cut a sharp blade where it's been abandoned for years. We need to compromise, and I expect the Ministry of Finance to have a compromise and a sense of understanding of the suffering and problems of those who are hard to survive the transition, but again to say that order must be respected and there must be no double arse on the one hand for those who are legally operating and for those who are trying to do illegal business. By adding that these two arches, when it comes to ordinary citizenship, usually don't exist to a large extent, but there are when it comes to tycoons. Once again, I publicly ask the question of what is wrong with the BK Empire, in which way it reconciles its obligations to this country, what is it between some businessmen who directly from JUL have gone to other parties, and now they're handling the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, what are the effects of that Chamber of Commerce, what are they doing there, who are these people, how have they come to these positions, who are leading them, with what motives. These are some questions that will certainly give us a much better budget proposal next year. I guess we won't have the opportunity or need to hear from Minister Dinkic next year a proposal for a new rebalancing, but it must be cleaned, as in statistical offices, such a clear relationship with the chambers of commerce and interrogating those people, what they are doing there, as directly from Milosevic's tycoon lobby went to some other parties, I can quote one, in the DS. I know businessmen from the Fireman, where they ran over, what they do, what kind of management positions they have in the DS and what they're in the Chamber of Commerce. If my fellow MPs from the DS don't know, I know and I can tell them about it, I can tell them who's running their business committee in the DS. (President: Mr. Matić, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. So these are questions that we can ask for an answer, especially from those who won't support this rebalancing. They're going to talk about inflation that's going to be two figures, and that's 16%. It won't be 16%. It might be 16% per statistical unit, which will estimate that tomatoes affect inflation more than oil, but let's accept it. In the end, we have an obligation to hear such thoughts. They will talk about the failure of the Serbian economy, saying privatisation has stopped, which is also not true. I think privatisation must be accompanied by certain programmes: structure and social programmes for those who do not agree with such privatisations. It's a good thing this rebalancing brings in, and it's a good thing we're setting aside for social programs a billion dinars, it's a good thing we're protecting pensioners with an extra ten and a half billion. Maybe it's not enough, it'll show up, maybe before the end of the year it'll have to give something more to the pensioners. It's not good that we ignored this rebalancing, to the greatest extent, agricultural pensions. I think with two or three supplementary pensions, in order to accompany some pace for those missing 21-22 farmers' pensions, an additional effort should be made. Maybe we'll do it next year. I think there's a chance now. But what's there is. All in all, we have one positive law. He is the result of the serious work of the Republic government. The DSS MPs, and I assume the others who make up the Republic government and those who support the Republic government, will give the majority a vote. I think we have two legal projects that have a life-affirmation and need them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17779	The word has the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, it was a pleasure to listen to the finance minister during the discussion of the Budget Rebalancing Proposal. In front of the DS parliamentary group, I cannot help but say that in one very detailed and comprehensive way, the law that we are discussing today, and at the same time I can't help but say that the budget is not only a matter of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, but the budget is a central issue, so I am a team and a budget rebalance for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, for who knows which time, I repeat my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the DS parliamentary group that today in this assembly hall does not sit with us the prime minister, the other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not sit, the vice-president of the government, and the whole story is being held in relation to the MPs - the finance minister, or the finance minister, or the finance ministry. If there were other ministers, then we would ask those other ministers what happened to capital investments in Serbia, what happens to education reform in Serbia, what happens to health reform in Serbia. What happens to other economic resources and whether, by any chance, the Ministry of Energy is aware that without the government's knowledge, without still giving consent, it is a pre-privatization procedure in the NIS, that rather strange things are emerging in the EPS that this people's home needs and how to discuss. Is the government even aware that the government is accounting for the National Assembly, not the other way around, that the MPs account for the government. I must admit, and once again I point out with pride that during the previous three years we had at least five or six ministers of the Government of Serbia here, we had a prime minister who explained the budget and budget rebalancing, not just the finance minister, because it's not just his job. This is because the budget is one of the basic instruments of economic policy led by the Serbian government. If, meanwhile, of the budget deficit, which is planned at around 2% of the 2005 budget, we are in a situation where we have a budget surplus of 33 or 35 billion, depending on the bill, then it means that there has been a drastic change in economic policy, because budget deficit or budget surplus are instruments for keeping economic policy. I would like to hear whether the Memorandum of Economic Policy for 2005, 2006 and 2007, has changed, but we would also like, I hope equally, not only the DS MPs, not only the opposition MPs, but also the MPs of the positioning parties, those who make up the government today, to hear how certain sectoral policies are realised. It is personal for me to read in a variety of newspapers what is announced in the next period, and with all due respect for Minister Dinkic and with respect for his knowledge, I am not sure that the restructuring of EPS and NIS can provide us with all the information, as would be the case. it could be provided by the Minister of Energy. In one word, this is really not a civilized way how the government treats the Serbian Parliament when it comes to an extremely important item on the agenda, and this is a debate on budget rebalancing. I hope that we will have the opportunity to at least have some minister do us the courtesy of the end of this debate and then to discuss certain sectoral policies that depend on individual ministries. As far as budget rebalancing itself is concerned, I have to say that I could give the whole story in one retrospective of defined economic policy objectives. If you remember, the main objective of economic policy in March 2004, when the budget for last year was passed, was the development budget. From March 2004 to today, there was nothing left of that development budget. Today we have one exact piece of information -- that this is the first time Serbia has achieved a budget surplus in 50 years. If we were to look at this isolated goal beyond other measures of economic policy, and we from the DS would say -- great, congratulations to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all honour to the ministry for achieving the budget surplus. But we can't look at the budgetary policy outside of the credit-monetary policy, outside of fiscal policy, because that's the one that you're realising economic policy with, not just for 2005, but for the coming years. I would say there is a fundamental discrepancy between the DS and the economic policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The economic policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia is aimed at achieving short-term goals. I would call it a short-sighted economic policy, unlike a long-term economic policy which and how it uses budget and budgetary policy to realise the key objective, which is to achieve a self-sustainable competitive economy. We do have a situation today where macroeconomic stability is expressed, regardless of the inflation movement that is happening, especially in the first few months of this year, for which there are some real justifications, but we also have no shifts in what is called structural change. For starters, I'll start by commenting on eight reasons why the state needs a budget surplus. First, I disagree with the finance minister that achieving the budget surplus is the ideal of public finances. It may be the ideal of the finance minister, but it should not be the ideal of the government and that of one country's governments in the transition process, given that all other instruments of economic policy are fully controlled by the IMF - and credit-money policy, fiscal policy defined by clear benchmarks. I ask the question why we are giving up budget policies lightly and why we are entering the budget surplus, if known, and whoever deals with public finances knows very well that the budget deficit is an instrument for encouraging economic activity. Of course, on the condition that the budget deficit encourages not personal consumption, but investment spending. But that depends on how much the government is willing to enter the proper structural changes. The healthiest part of the service of external debt; external debt is part of public expenditure. I don't understand this methodology, but so far, until last year, an external debt that was very clearly planned, which is defined by the appropriate arrangements reached with the London Club, the Paris Trustees' Club, other guaranteed external debts -- that's something that is predicted, which is as a regular category of public expenditure. Perhaps, here I ask the question, insisting on achieving a budget surplus and removing money from the side, is a kind of savings, in fact one fear of what will happen next year and the fear of whether our budget will be in a position to serve total debts next year. Then I can understand the need to reach a budget surplus and then I can understand even the IMF's insistence that the budget surplus be realised in 2005, because who knows what will happen in 2006 and whether we will be long enough or we will be short to pay off the debts. The surplus is saving. But when we look at all the countries that are numbered, which today have a budget surplus: Belgium, Denmark, Iceland, Ireland, Canada, with the exception of Russia, all of these are highly developed countries. I'm interested in a country in transition that had a budget surplus during the transition period. She had Poland, but only in one year. Bulgaria has no surplus today. What does that tell us? It tells us that the budget deficit is an instrument of realisation of economic policy, an incentive for economic activity. I don't suppose all these other countries were so ignorant that they didn't know that with a budget surplus they could possibly achieve a more favourable transition, a painless transition, a faster economic transition. On the other hand, it is said that the surplus allows privatisation revenues to be used to invest in the road economy. Something's wrong, Mr. Minister, in the text you gave us. The text says that after covering all public debts, internal, external, after funding 5.5 billion for purchase -- investment is thought of as an incentive to invest, it remains three billion in an indicative manner, which, together with 27 billion dinars at the end of the year, will mean the balance in the account of the 30 billion budget. I'm asking, if you're going to pay back your debts to the travel economy, and the planned revenues from privatisation are 27 billion, why at least you didn't say in the text - 27, minus your debts to the travel economy of six, seven, or eight billion, it doesn't matter because there are privatisation revenues? (President: Mr. Vlahovic, time. I will use the other ten minutes, and I will use part of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group's time. (President: But you must take order, Mr. Vlahovic. I already made a deal with the previous chairman, you weren't there, Mr. Chairman. (President: Here you go, another ten minutes, we'll see about this). I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your understanding. So the question arises whether the privatisation income in this year, in 2005, will be used to repay debts, or will the balance in the account ultimately be 30 billion? The next reason: to help monetary policy lower inflation expectations. Please, when you look at all the measures of economic policy, they are concentrated on one single goal, which is to reduce consumption. I have no objection to that, provided the measures of structural reform are implemented. These structural reform measures are lagging behind and today we have a situation where our credit-monetary, fiscal, budgetary policy affects Serbia's entire economy, both good and bad businesses. Let's make a bad guess, that's the goal, to reduce personal consumption and that pressure and breakthrough, the pressure on macroeconomic stability. But why good businesses? So because there is no differentiation that needs to be achieved, not by credit-money policy measures, not by fiscal or budgetary policy measures, but by measures to be achieved to restructure public enterprises, which are now, again, behind this speaker, only the story that will happen, as has been said six months ago, and only the separation of secondary actions has been done. If we look at the whole business in the restructuring of public enterprises, I can guarantee you that the separation of secondary actions and privatisation is 5% of the solution to the overall problem; 95% of the solution to the problem lies in the restructuring of basic activity. By the way, one detail, I'm not an ominous person, but I would like to point out once again, when we criticised in March for only two billion dinars in the transition fund, the answer came that the new government did not want to fire but to hire. Today we have a situation where there are more than six billion dinars in the Transition Fund. I welcome the government's decision and, above all, the finance minister, who gave one prime minister's exposé for this speaker, since there are no others. I welcome the urge to raise the transition fund in order to ensure the restructuring of public enterprises. Then, the surplus affects the drop in aggregate demand and that's true. But is it our goal, in the long run, that the aggregate demand falls, or is it our goal to raise the degree of competitiveness of the economy and, therefore, to have the factual real use of this aggregate demand, not to raise the external trade deficit, but to raise economic activity within our country? I guess this is our second goal. If that's our second goal then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to know what the plan is to restructure Serbia's Elektroprivreda? What about restructuring Serbia's oil industry? What does this signed contract mean with Lukoil, for which the government has yet to grant approval? Is this the entrance to a small door for the privatisation process that will follow? Over the past month, I have listened to different statements -- from those sitting in government and know what will be privatised by the end of the year from the oil industry of Serbia, to those who also sit in government and should know even more and use different categories. One speaks -- the Belgrade and Kruševac refineries will be privatised. It is true that both Belgrade and Kruševac have refineries, they are oily and they are secondary. Others announce the privatisation of oil refineries by the end of the year, the third announce the start of privatisation of oil refineries by the end of the year, most logically. But I ask the question what will happen to the trade network that the oil industry of Serbia has? What kind of connection exists between privatization of oil refineries and, on the other hand, trade networks? Could gas stations simply be an incentive in one direction better, more efficient privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia? Unfortunately, we do not have that answer, as we do not have an answer when it comes to privatising Serbia's Elektroprivreda. Instead, the energy minister said that, as far as he's concerned, the restructuring of Serbia's Elektroprivreda is complete, no one should mention that in Serbia's Elektroprivred, Serbia's oil industry, railways, there are extra employees. It's not two or three thousand, it's measured by tens of thousands. Even trade unions in these public enterprises know this, but the word is clearly forbidden when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. If we have said that the budget deficit is an instrument for the realisation of development policy, the question is why is it so insistent on the budget surplus. It's nice when we have a crowded state register, but it's not nice if, parallel to a crowded state register, we have a problem of liquidity in the economy of Serbia. He's expressed today. We heard about this pay phone that this year's gross social product will be increased by 4.5%. I'm asking a question from where. If 60% of gross social products contribute to agriculture and industry, if in agriculture, it is clear to all, we will have a stagnation at least this year, and we have already negative growth rates in industry, the question is whether the tertiary sector, whether the service sector, including traffic, together with trade, tourism and other activities, can compensate for that stagnation, or fall. I'm afraid that in this year after stagnation, we will also have a stagnation in agriculture and industry, ladies and gentlemen, and that means not only inflation growth, but a decline in activity in these sectors. We recently heard an explanation that there was a decline of 2% of the industrial volume of production because budget subsidies were reduced by a billion and a half dinars. Very well, mathematics is simple, which means we have a total trade capital in the 75 billion dinar industry. That means that when you look at the gross social product, it's about 24 billion dollars, three times eight 24 or 23 billion dollars, and when you say 25% of the industry, that means our industry has a fantastic rotation coefficient that's over 9. I'd like to see a country where the turnover coefficient is over nine. There will be no, Mr. Minister, that there has been a decline in the volume of production in industry because budget subsidies have been reduced, it will rather be that there has been a decline in the volume of industrial production because private sector development has been halted in 2004. These weren't objective problems, as you called them, they were subjective problems, because in these places they were common strangers, who had completely stopped the development of the private sector. Today, industrial production, so it pays the price of non-professionalism we had in 2004. I'm not saying for a moment that this has something to do with you or the other ministers in the government, unfortunately, we had one ministry where the development of the private sector was stopped. I am pleased to hear that foreign direct investment, which was mainly realised in 2001, 2002 and 2003, rather than in 2004, because you know very well, of the $950 million of investments that were made last year, is at least half what was realised and not paid from 2003 and 2002, both privatisation and direct greenfield investments. I only mention one, WolfPac engine company, which had the biggest direct greenfield investment in 2004, and this investment was started with the realization in early 2003. It's nice to hear that these foreign companies and their foreign direct investments today are the feathering of raising exports, Serbian exports. It is nice to say here in the National Assembly to those MPs who said what we said in 2003, 2002, react exactly the opposite, loudly, how we will sell out the Serbian economy, destroy the future or I don't know what to do. So my question for the government is, give me one side of a direct investment, and if it wasn't "Cimos" in the Kickinda that was made...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17781	Time, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17782	Are you gonna let me use my time or am I gonna have to hang up?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17783	It's impossible under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17784	I thank and interrupt. I'll get back to you, of course, just to finish up, I have two more sentences for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17786	So, I ask the question, what are the major foreign direct investments that have hurried because the investment climate was rapidly improved in 2004? In one final sentence, this government has never had a more serious test before. Two key serious tests are the right to restructure public enterprises and reduce public spending. I'm asking the Minister of Education, and unfortunately he's not here, what he's done to rationalise the education system. Nothing. He didn't do anything, and that's why the finance minister has to reduce the execution in that item, because there's nothing to be done. What was done to rationalize the health system? Let's also see this autumn that is coming, and it appears that there will be a significant reduction in public expenditure in the area, as well as how the rationalisation of the state sector is carried out. Whether a 10% diametric reduction is the right and whether it is our goal to achieve the quantity or quality of the state administration. These are two things, with the announced withdrawal of the PIO law and what has been done, I must say that I am personally, and the DS, very concerned about the further development of transition in this country and economic reform. It seems to me, and what this two-hour speech is about, I have to admit, before the previous government fell, I spoke for two hours and 40 minutes. One MP told me, this doesn't look good, not for the opposition, of course. One more sentence, and I don't want to abuse the congregation or the assembly pay phone anymore, I didn't or I'll ever do it...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17787	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17788	We'll give full support if you have the courage to get into real structural change in the economy. I'm afraid this budget is lagging behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17789	Thank you. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17790	I have to wait until Mr. Vlahovic apologizes to the minister for attacking him, says the sea for the cameras, okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly has not been informed of changes in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and has not been notified because it does not comply with the Constitution. Namely, any change by the Prime Minister must be carried out through the Assembly, through the President of the Republic who is the prime minister and who trusts the mandate, and the Assembly decides mostly who will be the Prime Minister, who will present the exposés on the work of the Government, the intentions, the plans. We've been exposed today by the Prime Minister from G17 Plus. Now I expect the other coalition partners, including their Prime Ministers, to come to this assembly to take out one exposé, because the G17 Plus Prime Minister has limited himself to his own ministry. So we heard in detail the situation and plans in health, agriculture, the military, even the military, but that's why we didn't hear anything about capital investments. Here, I call on the Prime Minister for capital investment to address him, too. We haven't heard anything based on citizens' safety, what will be invested in the police, how many people will be fired from the police. I call on the president of the DSS, Vojislav Kostunica, to say a word here. Because, in my understanding, in the organization of a single government, the finance minister is the best in his profession, but one of the members of the government. If someone has to speak here for two hours and say what the government is planning, I expect only the Prime Minister. His word here is the word of the government. The word of the finance minister, who was in fact the least concerned by what he was proposing today, and was much more concerned with the high-level business of leading the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the word of one minister, minister or not, and the Prime Minister is the whole government. Now let's talk a little bit about what you're proposing here, about the way it enters the Assembly here. In seven days, this law came from the government to the National Assembly session. Whenever you adopt a budget by emergency procedure, something's wrong. This time it's clear. Of course, between the former and this government, I can say that some advantage has been given to Mladjan Dinkic, because he still hasn't learned when something can justify it, like Vlahovic. He knows how to do it and he can justify it. Mladjan Dinkic has not arrived and this is a fairer school, this is a school where there is no gray eminence involved in Deloitte & Touche, which schools these economists, each for a year or two, destroys one segment of society, but always provides his dad with the biggest incomes and the greatest influence, and so much influence that the Prime Minister can come to his meeting that he organizes. The surplus or deficit, of course, when asked economists respond depending on whether the party is in power or in opposition, economists as well as lawyers, as you gather them, have started giving you so many opinions. The minister explains, a little bit and exclusive, that we have a surplus, and we of the opposition would say that we would prefer that what was planned to make so many states and spend, because we all planned our year calendarly or fiscally based on what the government had exposed to us here when it proposed the budget. You forgot, Mr. Minister, that another government had a surplus and that in the course of the year it had budget rebalances as a surplus. It was the government of Nikola Sainovic in 1993, but that year was somehow not remembered as something good in the state. You didn't make a surplus by printing money, but you did, you got to the ribs. The skin's off, now it's reached the ribs. Let's see if we need to take the citizens of Serbia's ribs off, take them out, see what the point is. Is that why, I imagine a household where children are hungry, and the host says, I have money in the straw, but I planned it for some needs, we'll have in two or three years some needs, and I have some debts unbroken with the neighbors, so I'm careful if we sue for litigation, and one by one child dies of hunger, he still keeps that money in the straw, so he imagined his deficit and surplus, his budget. You know, Mr. Minister, that this money is collected from the poorest, the most vulnerable, and when we give you the money in the budget, we count on you to schedule that money according to the government policy that the Assembly approves here, to schedule for us so that those who need it first get it, that they all get as much as they need to survive. There's no development, you say it yourself, but we need people to survive. When this difference is created, you first, as a first point, as a convenience you say -- now we're going to give the talents, and then there's going to go two, three billion, so we're going to invest in the loans, and what about the twenty, we're going to pay back the debts. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, all the time since DOS has been in any option in power in Serbia, we're warning you that you've accepted the debts, that you're distracting by talking about write-offs, but that what's left to pay we won't be able to pay. So you gave up easily on the demands Serbia has for others and accepted the only requirements that others have for us. It could be a policy in a year or two, long-term we have nothing of it. That the state was destroyed during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, after that during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic and the Radicals, it is no excuse for you to destroy those who destroyed, but not to call everyone who destroyed it. You are calling those who are in the country, who ruled the country, to blame their dear will on the media and abroad. They did this, they did that, so they had secret accounts, so they printed money, so this, that. However, those who have done direct damage for which something had to and should be done, and you already see and you know for yourself that something must be done and beyond the knowledge of this National Assembly, beyond the transparency of the public, you must not call them. Whenever someone comes to them to tell you how to get more money so that you can return interest on non-recorded loans, you should tell them -- let's talk a little bit about what damage you've done to this country. At least 30 people say 100 billion dollars of direct damage to the country by bombing, killing and destroying. You don't mention it, you'd like to run a country that came out of the ashes in 2000. That's why you're taking them like this. That's why you're telling us about housing loans that no young man can take, because he's got 200 and a few euros in the family war. Now you're including the family, you know that no individual can do it. If he paid it back, then the state's charging him with five years of paying off what it did to help him get into a housing loan. Look at that bill. Young people can't expect anything from it. You're talking about 2,500 euros that will get people to start their production. You can't start anything at 50 acres of wheat with 2,500 euros. What small businessman is going to start his small business with 2,500 euros? I'm very interested. Okay, you'll tell me. Plastics, probably. It's a plastic to the plastic. Let's see, after the tomatoes made the biggest inflation in Serbia's history, let's see if we all grow plastics. You were talking about banks. You're in pain. While Mladjan Dinkic exists, banks in Serbia will be discussed. As long as you're in public and in economic circles you're considered an expert, as long as you have the money that the people collect, they'll talk about the banks. I understand your need to talk about this incessantly positive, but let's talk like humans. You brought us foreign banks that robbed us completely. You admit from year to year that there are high interest rates, how this, how this, how they keep our money, how we now have secure banks in which we can give money and only further encourage these banks to take the cheap money, and to return it to us here at a price they can't get anywhere in the world. In the poorest country in the world, being a banker is the most worth it. Why wasn't that worth it to our banks? What did the bank's parties have to come for? Why all the foreign banks, why didn't you just save one? You say, Commercial Bank. The question is whether the Commercial Bank is now available with its own resources. I'd like to see a little bit of how much that funds the Commercial Bank has and how much it can withstand the competition of these tools that are already looking for nothing, just show up and give you a loan, because they know there's ways to charge. First, no finance minister should allow any foreign bank to be deceived. You'll find this citizen, you'll dig him out of the country to get his loan back, you'll take his black under his fingernails. It's with these banks, until they're on the European level, but then they wouldn't even show up here, because then it doesn't matter, then they'd rather invest in stable and strong countries. We are being torn down, unstable, having a bad political situation, having a small country run, we pay it twice as much interest as any other citizen in the world. That's why, Mr. Minister, there are no new cars you've promised within a year of becoming governor of the National Bank, so there are no new apartments you've promised in two years since you became governor of the National Bank, because you may not have calculated that these foreign banks you bring will immediately double our interest on our funds that they take from us and return to us over their counters. That's why these banks only have counters. Now you're talking about VAT cuts. He was downed two days ago. You brought five or six draft laws to the government on Friday to have something to talk about in public to justify this budget rebalance and now you say - we'll cut the value added tax. I agree, we'll cut the value added tax. You can't cut your salary tax. How are we going to stimulate the economy that brought this, how are we going to stimulate the citizens, if we're going to tell them now, here we have a surplus, from now on we're going to go for a surplus in the budget. So we'll take as much as we can to pay off foreign debts, to get those rich still some new clothes, some new shirt, some new car, some new summering. What is the motive, which is the interest of one who fights daily for bread, to develop the rich? We are not developing this country and you see it very well. I wish the cranes were in Serbia. Count the cranes, how many buildings in the country are currently being worked. When you go to a country just see if there are construction machines in the cities, whether cranes as caterpillars have surrounded the city, you do not have it in Serbia. When construction doesn't work, no business branch works. It's the finance department. In my opinion, one part works well, and in my long part of the opinion, you're not doing well. You're a good charger, but the whole system isn't well-designed. You're constantly coordinating our system with the rich in the world. Praise, 47 laws, 23 laws, 50, will be 100 this year, that Predrag Markovic knows, the laws that adapt to EU legislation. Can we handle it? Whether in 15 years when we may be at the EU door, whether this legislation will be in the EU, or whether we will have to pass two or three thousand more laws then, and in the EU, everything will change by then. Why don't we work as hard as our people can, let's not like the EU, let's not like the IMF. Besides, if you were listening to them, you'd cut your pensions by 30 percent a month ago, but you can't, even though they don't let pensions be financed from the budget. You're now looking for a grace period, let us go for another six months, another year, and what's going to happen positively is what's going to make it possible for us to no longer fund pensions from the budget. Tell that to the pensioners, I'd really like to know what's going to happen in that period where the IMF won't call you because pensions are funded from the budget. Of course, you spoke extensively about health care, agriculture. I understand your need. That was, that's why all the G17 Plus MPs sat down, and as soon as you're done, everyone came out of the O.R., there's nothing more to be heard in the O.R., ended up Mladjan Dinkic, and I understand it all. It wasn't your job here today to tell us how good doctors are going to go to private hospitals now, and you're going to hire us young people to treat us for free. It will welcome the nation with enthusiasm. He will welcome with enthusiasm the story of how the rich will now have private offices where teachers will treat them, and we will study for the poor, as in America, national hospitals, and there will be both doctors and people. Why do we drop excellent doctors who train 15 or 20 young doctors daily at clinics, leave them in private practice, and who will teach us those children in hospitals? When are we going to have a generation of good doctors again? Of course, your trip with Pixie I'll welcome with enthusiasm, it moved me so much, Mr. Minister, you'll play there, he'll play and it'll be just like that. You've talked too much about banks, about two billion euros on savings. Tell me what banks these billions of euros are in, because I would really like to see what banks they are and how they invest. I know everyone now has funding in Serbia, but mostly they want to finance local self-government, infrastructure, and you know it very well. Let's see which one is the factory that can now get a loan from those banks of yours, none. Local self-government can do it, she has good income now, although you're investing in them by the Constitution, by the property law, about local self-government. Indeed, I will try to understand how this will be swallowed by the Constitutional Court in this Constitution, because I think it's just a little bit more of a local self-government, but there's going to be a question of how with the local self-government when you've given yourself the right, Mr. Minister, that you decide which local self-government, when there's no income, is going to get revenue from the state, which is not, because that law, which is the introduction of the budget law, actually shows that the Prime Minister and the G17 plus will have all the revenues, but really all the revenues. I find that incomprehensible. Neither the government will have control nor the National Assembly will have control, as it pours out, as it is spent. The National Bank, and you know it buys foreign exchanges from citizens, does it pay taxes on what it buys? For example, Article 48 of the very provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 of this article, which is where the budget reserve is allocated, the funds of the current reserves of the Republic budget can be used to fulfil the commitments of the local government budget due to reduced income. That's where the law needs it right now. This can't happen without a new law. What is meant by the budget reserve -- funds can be allocated to local self-government to implement the budget, the commitment of the budget, due to a reduced volume of income. What key is that going to be? What if there are 30 local self-governments that have reduced budget revenues and don't have enough resources to finance themselves, then what would be the key to determining funding, would it possibly be the structure of government in local self-government? Look at this, the minister will prescribe conditions for the way in which the consolidated vault is opened and abolished, as well as other issues of importance for the functioning of the vault. It could have been one member of the law, a consolidated vault account will be formed, the minister will prescribe conditions. Then what good is the law if we give you the authority to write it all yourself? Of course, the Treasury Department collects compensation for public payments services, and then you predict that the training of employees, the purchase of information systems, and to remind you of the ministers, the SDK had the best information system in the country. I think it's worth it, you'll tell me, it's an immeasurable number for you now. It's completely broken. You're making a new SDK, you're making a G17 plus bank here, you know that well. Look, you're building an information system, whether any new government is going to break what it did before, and when it's over a year or two, it's going to form and re-invest new funds. Now I'm asking you, what about the SDK Information System, the Payment Services, which worked in a fraction of a second on the entire country's territory, you're going to need it now for the Treasury Administration. You'll need such an information system. I hope we have time to talk a little more, of course, and about the TV subscription and about registered households. You dare to separate the peasants into registered and unregistered, so the registered will have all the rights in the state, unregistered will not. I don't know where you found a foothold in the Constitution to separate the citizens by whether they registered at the Ministry or not and whether they registered at the G17 Plus-led Ministry or not. I hope we have more time, and I expect you to respond to your remarks, so I apologize for these two minutes. The topic is extremely serious, and if the minister spoke for two hours, I think you should, Mr. President, reward your MPs with some extended time for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17791	Thank you. As you can see, I've tried a little hard. The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17792	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the most important law of the Ministry of Finance, of the Government, is the Budget and Budget Rebalancing Act. For the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is the biggest exam and this exam was passed several times during this term. Immediately after the government was formed, we adopted the 2004 record-breaking budget, and in mid-year there was budget rebalance. Of course, we passed the 2005 budget within the legal deadline. I'll remind you, I can see that there's been a major controversy over deficits and surpluses, but statistics have to say that in 2003 the deficit amounted to 45 billion dinars, which was significantly less than 22 billion in 2004, and in 2005, we have a balanced budget and surplus of three billion dinars. The budget system law amended the way the surplus accounts, so the calculation is in line with the accounting standards of developed countries of Europe and the world, so the payment of the principal public debt books in a different way and by that calculation the surplus is 32 billion, but if we really look at the parallel between 2003, 2004 and 2005 now the surplus is three billion dinars. If we look at the policy of how the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister does it, it is only one continuation of the serious policy it has led as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the National Bank of Serbia and has regained trust in the national currency of the dinar, so now responsible for financial policy in the country, budgetary policy, it allows domestically to operate on national money, because it is very important to take care of the money of all Serbian citizens. Thus, such a responsible policy has been allowed to pay off old debts such as old foreign savings and loans for Serbia's rebirth, but there have been debts in other segments and other ministries, so let's say one of the larger ones is debt to the road that has been settled in this way and thus provides the possibility to further build roads and infrastructure in general. The budget rebalance provides additional resources and, if we look at the structure where these funds are allocated, then it is clear what policy is being conducted. Additional funds go to the PIO Fund, the Pension Fund of Farmers, the National Employment Service, the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing, as a grant for housing credits, for a urban development programme such as Kragujevac, Bor, Vranje, social protection benefits, additional funds to the Coordination Centre, social contributions to employees, etc. What I can also say is that additional funds go to army officers, but also this budget and this surplus allow us to introduce stimulating incentives for the economy in the next fiscal year, reduce salary tax, which was one of the pre-election promises. I will remind you, given the serious results we have in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all in the Ministry of Finance, of the key points done in the previous period. As soon as the government is formed and in office I will remind you that, under the orders of the finance minister, the tax administration has charged the extra profit to the Astra Bank, and that is a good move. In the same year, you remember well, a plan has been activated by the Ministry of Finance TR 84 to combat cigarette smuggling. Also, the Ministry of Finance came up with the idea of providing funds to maintain the White Court. In mid-2004, Serbia's debts and claims to the Russian Federation were resolved and a memorandum was signed on that. He then entered into force the Law on the abolition of income tax, some excise duties abolished and some reduced. The fiscalisation was successfully carried out, and in July 2004, we passed the VAT Act, which successfully prepared and entered into force in early 2005 and which produced exceptional results in fiscal policy and grey economy reduction. In August 2004, debt payments on the basis of loans for Serbia's economic rebirth began. After clearly visible reform moves by the finance ministry in 2004, Serbia for the first time in its history received a B plus credit rating, and in 2005, it improved to BB minus. Getting a positive assessment of the feasibility study is a logical consequence of the reform course held by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I remind you once again what the study says. Someone mentioned the bank's assembly speaker, and it is clear here that a thorough check and classification of all banks has been carried out in Serbia. In early 2002, all insolvent banks were liquidated or carried out a bankruptcy procedure. Here is primarily thought of the four largest banks and as a result now in Serbia we have 42 banks, eight of which are foreign at the time of writing a feasibility study, and today there are 10 or 11 foreign banks. The privatisation of larger banks in public ownership continues. Three banks were offered for tender sales during 2004, and the number is expected to be even higher in 2005, as the minister said about the assembly speaker. The closure and strict control of troubled banks and the arrival of foreign banks have increased citizens' confidence in the banking system, which is clearly what it says here. Also around tax policy: "In Serbia, a significant reduction in the number of taxes, as well as the elimination of most tax exemptions, has improved tax collection. The second generation of tax reforms was aimed at encouraging private sector development, investment and employment. Serbia also passed corporate tax and income tax laws aimed at reducing tax burdens, as well as the Excise Act, limiting the use of excise duties on only a few products. The key remaining change was the introduction of VAT in January 2005, as part of a wider tax package aimed at a higher level of fiscal decentralisation." So in April 2005, we had the opportunity to sum up the first results of VAT implementation. Three months after the introduction of the VAT, the grey economy has been significantly reduced, while budget revenues have been significantly increased by about 50% compared to revenues generated on the basis of sales tax. With responsible state policy, we managed to launch a programme of awards and scholarships for young talent and students. We've secured regular pension payments, all social benefits and salaries in the public sector. You remember well that in 2004, there was some increase in salaries for doctors, nurses and technicians, and in 2005, this trend continued with education, culture and social protection institutions by about 30%.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17793	Are you using another 10 minutes? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17794	We've increased the agrarian budget three times, agriculture records a record growth in production. A year later, 120,000 agricultural producers were registered. It is important to tell them again that registration is, above all, intended to stimulate agricultural producers in different things and that it means it to them. 20,000 short-term loans and several thousand long-term agricultural loans have been allocated. It's not enough, but it's certainly a positive measure to continue. The projected growth of social gross product for 2005 is 4.5%. You remember and write-offs to the London Trust Club by 62%. We've secured the continuation of a three-year arrangement with the IMF. Serbia today has for the first time in 50 years a surplus in the budget. Someone mentioned the restructuring of public enterprises. I have to tell you right now that I would agree with one of the previous speakers myself, but that he made clear and true. The best, in the period when public spending is growing, and this is the period between 2001 and 2003, is determined to move towards restructuring of public enterprises. Along with the growth of public spending, this job is easier to do. In co-operation with the IMF and a signed agreement and because of the Serbian government's serious policy, the process has moved, unfortunately, now is not before, but here is the opportunity for the Serbian government to do the job. It is clear to all, at least to those who deal with the economy, that conditions are now more difficult than between 2001 and 2003, because the IMF requires a reduction in public spending, on the one hand, and restructuring of public enterprises, on the other. People need to be clearly and unequivocally told that they are working now under difficult conditions, but there is a serious readiness and this process has been seriously and entered. What is clear is that the VAT has been successfully introduced in Serbia, as I have already said, at a rate that is 2% lower than the sales tax. There are over 160,000 fiscal accounts in Serbia, all have to pay taxes. We set up a national housing insurance corporation, which, for the first time in 15 years, allowed banks to start approving housing loans. The conditions are not favourable enough for a broad circle of people to have a possibility, but it is a good new measure of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- 1,000 apartments for married couples up to 45 years, under even more favourable conditions. All of these are measures aimed at affecting the state and guaranteeing that banks reduce interest rates. To date, the National Assembly has passed over 150 laws in this term. We got a positive assessment of the feasibility study. So, I'm about to conclude and unite what I've said so far. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, in general, Deputy Prime Minister and G17 Plus ministers, Serbia has received a positive assessment of the feasibility study, agreements reached with the World Bank and the IMF. You know well that the host of the annual European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Assembly was Minister of Finance, Mr Dinkic, and what an echo this has caused in the public, what an echo it has on the investment climate in Serbia. Also, we got the status of a privileged trading partner with the United States. Over 4,000 products can be exported to the US market without customs. After 1990s, a textile agreement with the EU was signed for the first time. The Paris-based trustee club approved a debt-paying break based on an agreement with the IMF. Macro-financial assistance to Serbia by the EU has been approved. The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from Mr Labus and Mr Dinkic, has formed a Fund for the Support and Finance of Young talent. So when we add all of this together, we can make one conclusion, and it can even be shown in one sentence, that G17 plus the guarantee of Serbia is in the plus, with us Serbia is always in the plus, so is this surplus. So, Serbia's state register is for the first time in half a century in plus, we're in plus both as state and as people. By adopting budget rebalances for this year, G17 plus fulfilled another pre-election promise, which is home-run management of people's money and Serbia's convergence with European standards. We had such a policy at the time of the first reign of Prince Milos, until 1839, and then for the second replacements from 1868 to 1872 and in the first decade of the 20th century, when the finance minister was Lazar Pacu. Only then did the government's income exceed the expenditures. So, Prince Milos, then Ristic, Pa Pachu, and Dinkic. The price of good financial policy in Serbia is savings. The Serbian citizens have just brought a surplus. G17 plus just started them to deal with their past faults. With the responsibility of managing the money of Serbian citizens, G17 plus creates a more thrifty and efficient state, in which the law applies equally to all. This will reduce the government debt and disappoint all pessimists who fear the public with a debt crisis through superficial analysis. We'll work to increase our exports and raise the salary tax next year. Foreign investment is increasing, which will provide more work for our citizens. I also call on other parliamentary groups to support budget rebalancing and amending the Budget System Act together with G17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17795	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, DS, G17 plus, SRS and DSS. After an hour's break, the first one will have the word Mr. Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Continuation is at 15.05 hours. [[After break – 15,15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. Like we said, we're starting a search in principle. The first word came from MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Aleksandar Vlahovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17797	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies of the Ministry of Finance, I don't see any gentleman, I will only in one segment on amendments to the 2005 Budget Law to speak here and say something about the two or three sentences Mr Dinkic has spoken about Cačka, so that someone doesn't get the wrong impression. He did it out of his best intentions, but I'm obliged to explain some things. In the 2004 Budget Law and in the budget, we had a position of 800 million to improve the quality of milk. It was a good way to help individual producers, farmers in Serbia, buy appliances called lacto hairs and that should ensure that freshly milk is stabilised at 4-8 degrees and that, as such, at buying places and checkpoints, which serve such a purpose, they are properly handed over to local milkers. Last year, the item was not realised in any dinar for reasons we know, and Serbia's citizens are mostly not. This year, again in the adoption of the 2005 budget, 800 million were allocated for this purpose, so, for easy hairstyles, and now, from the presentation of Mr. Minister, and from the presentation of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry and the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on Agriculture, we understood that this item would also be reduced by 650 million dinars. Please understand what this is about, because there is no Mr. Dinkic. The temperature of freshly milked milk corresponds to the body temperature of 38° cattle. In these periods, in just half an hour it is possible to experience acidification, depletion of all the amounts of milk that are thus added together. This is served by these technical appliances, which in an efficient and extremely simple way stabilize the milk temperature so that it can be further manipulated in a commercial sense. I remind you, the Imlek rule provides for a tolerated temperature of four to eight degrees. I also remind you that on all dairy products, in the case of storage conditions, a temperature of 4 to 8 degrees is prescribed. What was the basic idea here? The idea was to help peasants buy such devices and to minimise the risk of wasteing the amount of milk collected during one day. I regret to say that even with this budget rebalance, which is in addition to 32 billion, practically agriculture will be reduced by one billion, with this position, i.e. a subline of about 650 million dinars. That's not good. Last night I telephoned a family from Kalinovic, a municipality of Gornji Milanovac, a famous and famous family of Povrenovic, so they can check out what I'm talking about here. So, people in the absence of these devices, freshly milked uncontrollably cool in freezers and thus risk double. If we really wanted to help the villagers, then this was a great way to congratulate those who came up with this. But, of course, I'm not happy that two years in a row practically this position is shutting down. Mr Dinkic said that since the project hasn't even started, none of it will break, there are now these 150 million, so I hope that at least it will be realised. There are over 50 companies in Serbia that have licensed production in this area, such as the Rapid company in Gornji Milanovac, and many private firms, there is an import offer and it would be good if at least we were all here, when we adopt the 2006 budget - we are adopting this sublinium in this department and we want to guarantee that the villagers will get the opportunity to get an easy haircut under favourable conditions. The explanation last year that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry cannot do this because the milkers are privatised, thus helping private milkers are not any argument. We need to help the peasants. To whom they will sell milk, it is a matter of their assessment. It depends on who pays, what the payout dynamics are, how the distribution network is organized, etc. What's the alternative? I know some people here don't care, but I have a picture of several hundred thousand people in Serbia living off of it, one cow could, at any time, support a four-member family. It is our obligation to create an ambience and conditions for people who are 70-80 years old and still have the strength and courage to deal with dairy production to get from the competent ministry what was prescribed here. In my opinion, in a completely unwarranted way, he's going back in reverse and he's dividing himself into other divisions for some reason I understand, but I don't justify it. So please, it's only going to be two or three months since the adoption, or the 2006 budget projection, that we have this in mind and we don't make the same mistake three times in a row. As for private milkers, I will repeat my position with the Committee on Agriculture, it was not my political ideal for everything to be private in Serbia, but it is a practical state in Serbia. This is not how we help private dairy farmers, or private dairy owners. We help direct milk producers. I hope we understand that. It is very important, in addition to that, if these 800 million were used to employ 30 small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with the production of lacto-freeze, we would in multiple ways get these funds in the budget by the next year; we would get at least 40 in the budget for the next year, the one who understands what I'm talking about here. Twice, Mr Dinkic mentioned Cačak as a positive example in terms of taking advantage of positions already in the budget. That's, of course, nice. It's nice to live in a city that's been praised by the finance minister. I just want to say that Cacak was earlier a city that had, like, in 1980, three thousand cooperatives and privates, joined in the Zanatian Association "Universal". No democratic miracle has created these companies, but since 1990 we have private companies that employ 500 people. It was the first city in Europe to connect eight schools to the internet in 1995. He inherited a great administration, unlike some others, which was not party, but professional and that it is a city that has a perspective, which today has a more stable and tolerated political life and that, of course, in the coming period, everything will do to make use of the funds belonging to him from the Republic of Serbia's budget in a way that is best for Cačak and Cacana. Also, I want to say that it's a city that has a budget of 17m euros for this year and that it's already worked three rebalances on plus this year, which, of course, says there's a living business activity there, which I was obliged to say, because someone might get the impression that this city has turned some magic wand yesterday into what it is today. Unfortunately, the other big economy, and with that Mr. Secretary disagree, is far below what it was or could be. Chachanska "Freedom" today has employees as many as they used to be in the company's menu, porters and hygienists. That's less than a thousand, and there used to be eight thousand. But it's a topic for another occasion, when Mr. Bubalo is here to endure his exposés. So I was obliged to say it here. Please, colleagues, we have written several amendments, Mr. Jovan Todorovic, our authorised representative wrote five amendments, and I will one day especially get involved when the time comes. I mean, on this first subject, it's important that we understand what this is all about. I regret to say that it happened in this position relating to these 650 million, which will again be justly removed from position and given to someone else. The declaration of advocacy for agriculture is harmful to agriculture and the state. The minister, both of whom, and agriculture and finance, should respect what they say to farmers at the beginning of the financial year. That's what I expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17798	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, and let the MP of the people, Susan Grubjesic, be prepared. At the same time, I'm informing you, under Article 85 of Section 5 today we'll be working after 18.00 hours if we don't finish, so until we finish the principle debate we started on these two laws. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17799	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, respected members of the Ministry of Finance, as far as DS is concerned, we would be very pleased if we had at least two or three hours left, so if we were to work tonight, let us try to show that today in Serbia, an extremely bad economic policy, which will already give very negative results in the medium term, will ultimately have very difficult consequences for Serbia's economy. Before I begin to elaborate and make arguments in favour of the claim that Serbia will soon move from a stagflation period to a period of paveding, first of all I would like to address the commentary of accounting acrobatics, which is a new system and a new way of managing the budget in line with the amended Budgetary System Act, and it has made it possible to use and use the budget's once-in-a-lifetime corresponding positions or abuse, call it whatever you want. Today, we have heard that Serbia will for the first time have a surplus of more than 30 billion dinars, because below the so-called line there are all public expenditures relating to repayment of debts, both domestic and foreign, and what was the usual thing in budgeting in the previous period and that it is treated as regular budgetary expenditure. Also, we've heard that budget rebalancing is a planned revenue increase from 396 to 433 billion dinars, which is 9.3% higher, and that expenditures are reduced from 416.6 to 400.8 billion dinars or 3.9%. At first glance, this is a very radical reduction and radical adjustment of public spending. However, if you compare the Budgetary System Act that was in force in the previous period and the amending budget system law, then you will see very clearly that this is not about reducing budget expenditure, but rather about increasing budget expenditures by 20.7% compared to what has been achieved over the past period. Therefore, the tendency to reduce public spending does not stand. It even increases in real terms. If budget expenditures are increased by 20.7% and I have already mentioned which categories are covered earlier as regular budget expenditures, and I mean first of all items relating to the repayment of domestic and foreign debts, and if we know that the target or planned inflation rate for this year was 9%, and the truth will be over 13% at the end of this year, then you realize that there is no real budget expenditure reduction, but at the same time they increase both in nominal and real terms budgetary expenditure. It is true that budget revenues are increasing significantly more because, as a result of the introduction of VAT, part of the grey economy has entered the legal economy zone, and at least this is due to the economic growth achieved in this year, which I said in my previous presentation that, even when it comes to industry and agriculture, we already have a stagnation phase in this year. We will likely have a negative growth by the end of the year, given all the developments in the management of economic policy that have been achieved over the past period. Therefore, when data on the budget surplus are presented, it would be quite acceptable and it would be quite methodologically correct if the new bill or new system that defines the Budgetary System Act were reclassified and compared to the old way of budgeting, as previously defined by the Budgetary System Act. Then you would come up with completely different figures, and as I have already said, a realistic and nominal increase in budget expenditure, along with a real and nominal increase in budget revenues, while at the same time a far smaller budget surplus than the one shown here is more than 30 billion dinars. In his address to the public, and to us here, Mr. Finance has cited countless reasons why it is more important to have a budget surplus than a budget deficit at the moment. However, three are crucial. The first reason concerns the fact that the state of Serbia, although it does not belong to the category of high-indebted countries, is because the level of debt is far below the total social gross product, and is thought to be foreign debt, it is necessary to provide the necessary funds to repay debts to foreign creditors. I've said a little while ago that this reservation of funds in 2005 for 2006 could be interpreted in two ways. The number one way is that there is a clearly distributed reservation that comes from the supervisors of what happens in public finances, which is the IMF. It is precisely because it is not believed that the 2005 budget, or 2006 budget, will be in a position to pay off loans and that the 2005 surplus funds are in fact secured by the repayment of debts in 2006. It's really like that. There is really no other reason, if you believe that you are doing strong strategic steps towards structural adjustment of the economy, in the direction of raising the level of competitiveness of the economy, that you will not repeat the same good economic results as you had in the previous period, and therefore be in a position to pay your budget expenditures, including those that are below the line according to the new methodology, which is the return of foreign and domestic and internal debts. Another reason why the finance minister says it is necessary to have a budget surplus at the moment, which is a further reduction in the external trade imbalance. First of all, I would like to say that the results achieved in the first five months, which relate to increasing imports and reducing exports, can be interpreted with the same arguments as the sudden leap of imports in the last quarter of 2004. As is known, the achieved level of external trade deficit in 2004 did not in any way reflect the real situation, but in fact it was the response of the economy to the planned introduction of VAT and in fact their normal rational business behaviour, because they wanted to pay less in a situation where they could pay less. This means the production of goods and supplies, because it was cheaper to them than to enter the VAT system from the new year and to pay for that newly established tax instrument, i.e. to behave in accordance with the newly introduced tax instrument. If this was an explanation for the high external trade deficit in the last quarter, this same argument can be used in the first quarter of this year, and for almost all five months of this year, which is that most of the imports for the first few months of 2005 have just been made in the previous year and therefore there is no room for optimistic projections, where we will have an external trade deficit by the end of the year which will be more drastically lower than what we achieved last year. I'd rather see trends, trends that will appear in the second half of this year, because only then can we see how more competition of the economy has been achieved. But the competitiveness of the economy, which means its ability to export more than it imports, which means when we are at least able to reduce that foreign trade deficit, must be due to structural changes. If you could give me one structural change that has occurred in the past seven or eight months or over the past year and a half, then I could believe that as a result of the structural changes that have been made... The emissaries are getting out of the O.R. I'd like to ask the Members of Parliament not to get it for me. If they have anything to say, let them come out for this pay phone, I'll be happy to have sex with them. So if this is due to real changes, raising competitiveness and thus raising exports, tell me what it's done over the past year and a half. Is today any public enterprise more competitive than it was a year ago? We have a situation in JAT, where even within the ruling coalition, you don't know who drinks or who pays. On the one hand, the minister accuses the board of directors of preventing the separation of certain secondary parts. The chairman of the board of directors, I've only recently learned that, is Mr. MP in our parliament, so he accuses the minister of not knowing what he's doing. I really don't understand who dictates the restructuring process, who implements whose decisions, whether the government corresponds to the JAT board or the board of directors responds to the Government, whether JAT may not be the Head of Government or vice versa, and who in general represents state capital and how have the representatives of the state capital been delegated? So we have a situation where JAT is far, far less competitive than it was a year and a half ago. Let's see what the NIS situation is like. I found it astounding that one platform of economic liberalisation, which in all transition countries gave its results, not immediately, not immediately, but in the medium term, to change and reverse from this platform of liberalisation, which was the main feature of the key economic policy creator in the former SRJ government after the five-octobaric changes, suddenly things are changing and turning and giving birth to their own opposite. It's a typical case of NIS. There is no respect and no real economic movement in the world, no change in energy prices, key strategic energys and for the sake of what kind of vision in economic stability, as in the old days, which many remember, especially those present in a coalition in power, as in the old days there is an economic devastation of public enterprises. Didn't we read a few days ago that the director of NIS said that NIS is losing millions of dollars a day because economic reality isn't being determined? The reality is that you can't keep the price of oil and oil derivatives below the world level, unless you have a strong budget coverage behind it, which means that you directly touch the state economy with subsidies, so as not to reduce resources and enter the mobility zone. On the contrary, economic policy in the absence of other mechanisms is also based on sound, rigid price control, which sometimes blindly disrespects the change in global energy prices. We had a chance to hear the vice president of the current government say - if the board requires a price change, they'll all be replaced. A very nice way to run an economic policy. I don't know which college you learn that. That college I attended wasn't about threats and blackmail when it came to price levels, it was about facing offers and demands, and you're about the state if you're rich, if you want to share gas for free, share it for free, but cover those losses. As far as we can see in this budget, there are no projected items to cover these losses. There's a similar situation in the EPS. We even have a situation where there is disagreement within the government where the energy minister on the one hand insists there is an increase in price to cover economic costs, and on the other hand there is a tightening, a ban on rising prices. I have to say, and first of all, I'm talking to the public right now. The public should not be happy that the price hike is partly reduced and delayed in one period of time, because it will cost all of us taxpayers much more later when we have to go into the reconstruction of the devastated funds in public enterprises. We had that school during 2001 and 2002. Huge money has been invested precisely because of economic imbalances and because of very low, economically pointless, energy prices that have been in our country during the 1990s. Instead, it is necessary to restructure these public enterprises quickly. We can't see a shift here. I said for a little while that 5% of the total restructuring work is a segregation of secondary activity. After all, what bothered the secondary actions to be separated from the beginning of last year, even when it comes to electricity, there was a complete prepared programme, but no, it was stopped to order the study she said -- there must be separation of secondary actions. There is 95% of the unpopular, politically unpopular, but our country needs a job that refers to a reduction in size. We need to recognize that. What Minister Dinkic said during his presentation, only if he had sorted differently, he would have seen for himself where the errors in the government's economic policy are. When he said - there should be no more subsidies, I completely agree with him, but instead of reducing subsidies, he should increase direct social benefits where they are needed. We will have a situation that this part of the subsidy will have to go to repair the business performance of those public enterprises that have meanwhile done business with non-economic prices. The banks are also mentioned for this pay phone. It is mentioned that the privatisation of banks is very successful this year. I have nothing to add. Indeed, the privatisation of banks in this year has done its job as a total privatisation, all that remains in the real sector is happening this year. However, the question arises, and what prevented banks and the banking system from entering the privatisation process much earlier, what prevented the Novosadska Banka, Continental Banka, Niška Banka, if you want other banks in the privatisation process, such as the Pannonian Banka, the Vojvodjanska Banka, during the period when the finance minister was the central bank's governor, in a different manner, through the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. I think it waited an unwarranted long time with the start of privatisation of the banking sector and, as I was saying two years ago, three years ago when I was in the government, if it weren't for the restructuring of the banking sector just to shut down major state banks, where we immediately understood, that someone would not have interpreted me differently, I was absolutely behind this process of shutting down major state banks, because there was no way that they could be restructured, it would have cost a lot more than the right to restructure the banking sector the entry of other banks and the start of privatization of healthy banks. As a consequence of the failure of large other banks, therefore, other than those that were limited or their number was limited by the issue of greenfield licences, we had a situation that our competition in the banking sector was at an extremely low level. On the other hand, it is said here that a solid credit-monetary policy is being run parallelly, that a rigid fiscal policy is being conducted and with a budget surplus, you can conclude yourself, a rigid budgetary policy. What's the result of a rigid credit-monetary policy that can't be more rigid at the moment. So, to prevent this bauk of inflation, which may have been too high in the previous period, i.e. that inflational expectation, and the consequence is that by realising the credit-monetary policy measures, the governor raised the minimum reserve rate from 21, so it was previously reduced to 20%, if I'm not mistaken to 24%. We still have an extremely high reserve rate for the new foreign savings, which is 47% of what is collected. If you withdraw foreign funds, if you withdraw funds from circulation, you reduce credit potential for the Serbian economy, if you reduce credit potential, you reduce the offer, if you reduce the offer, so, with the same demand, perhaps even higher, you raise interest rates and the real result of the increase in the volume of reserves, i.e. the Central Bank's reservation will be an increase in interest rates. The story is that by going out on the short-term finance market, the budget can knock down interest rates, it's only for those who have little knowledge when it comes to public finances. On the contrary, the real measures to knock down interest rates are in the hands of the governor of the Central Bank and you will be surprised, are in the hands of those who run sector policy. That's why we here from the DS today were looking for other ministers, so to ask the Minister of Education why he's not doing a rationalization of the education system. I know that the finance minister is forced to reduce the amount of giving to the education sector and since there is no rationalisation of the education system, since we still have a whole series of primary schools that only one student attends, which requires huge infrastructure and huge costs, instead of rationalising from primary education and secondary schools, there is a reduction in total education sector giving, and thus there is no incentive to realise a more efficient, more stimulating development policy, if you will, and in the education sector. What's going on in the health sector? Can anyone say what the dynamics of rationalising the health sector are? We don't see that. After all, I ask the question, not at the end of my presentation, but in this part, I ask the question, if we have a budget surplus and if it is more than 30 billion, if we have 27 billion revenues from privatisation, why a few weeks ago we voted the Law on concessions for the highway from Subotica or from Horgos, Palić to Požega, and by giving already existing shares for exploitation without a clearly visible moment when the construction of that road section will begin. Instead of, as the largest number of Central European countries do today, including Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania, we have entered into a credit arrangement and have taken advantage of this budget deficit for that so-called basic money which is subsequently increased by loans from other international financial institutions to build those shares. Believe me, I'm not sure the job of building that highway from Horgos to Požega will be gloriously completed. The minister mentioned here in 1881, a declaration of kingdom and surplus or deficit at the time of King Milan. I'm afraid that share from Horgos to Požega doesn't end up as the famous plan and concession of Louis Bartu, building the first railway from Belgrade to Nis. Whoever studied and read economic history knows very well how we pawned the monopoly, all the monopolies that the state had at that time to make that investment. Why not use the budget surplus to fund the investments? Today, our country, when you add up all investments, private and public, I'm talking about investments, has a 16% investment level of the total gross social product. We have to come to 22% of gross social product investments, i.e. from gross social product by 2010, as we have every year to restore growth by 4% or 5% in order to say, on the condition that there is no big fluctuation in dollars, that gross social product per capita will be $4.5,000. So, in one word, when you look at the way economic policy is run, I have to say that he's shortsighted, he's focused on the current macro-financial balance, the macroeconomic balance, that he sees it on the outside, and therefore he insists on paying back debts and using the debt-refunding budget surplus instead of using the budget deficit as an instrument for leading economic policy everywhere. At the same time, we have a rigid fiscal policy, along with a monetary policy, with a budget policy aimed at reducing consumption. A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, in this house, we discussed other laws. A few days ago, I was saying that this is the law that we're about to pass, and I was talking about the Insurance Act, it encourages the growth of personal consumption, because instead of actions, you're going to be sharing money for employees, former employees. Where's that money going? Certainly not for buying shares, certainly for personal consumption. You can't run public finances unconsistently, but you also can't run public finances by saying, as my esteemed colleague who spoke before the afternoon break, you have 3,000 euros in your pocket and say, I have a surplus, and at the same time I owe 1,500 pensioners, I owe 500 to the state, I owe 500 to the pharmaceutical industry, I owe 600 to the people, and so on. If you have a surplus, then the best economic way, if you want to boost economic activity to repay debts to those companies that, because they have a high level of budget claims, by funds, by public enterprises, is precisely why they are in a huge liquidity crisis. Let me tell you, restructuring public enterprises and reducing public spending is a long-term job, because it can't be done in three or six months. In this long-term business, something must be sacrificed for something. Some countries in transition have sacrificed inflation due to growth. You know very well that Slovenia had a long range of years of inflation of 12, 11, 10, 9%, until growth was achieved at that level that provided a level of competitive economy. Some countries have vice-sacrificed growth because they wanted to have a Marko-economic balance at the moment and there are various economic debates that are better, whether to go with less inflation or to go with more programmed inflation. Believe me, I don't know any country that had inflation at the same time, and a budget surplus, and a fall in activity, and precisely because of this short-term and short-sighted policy this country will have problems at the end of the year. It's not just a static collection of income and expenditure, it's not a budget-taking process, so let's be happy and happy and rub our hands. It is that many budget positions have not been implemented, but whoever asks you, we rub our hands because we have achieved some positive. It has to be part of a long-term plan, and the key thing to measure our economy in the future is the degree of competitiveness. It's interesting that for this speaker, the only indicator that's not mentioned is the degree of competitiveness, but I'll tell you why. Because we're where we were two years ago, 85th out of 105 countries. It's a degree of competitiveness and a way of leading established by famous Professor Michael Porter in our reports, and in 2003 we had that position, and in 2005 we also have that position. To raise the level of competitiveness, it is not necessary to secure a surplus, but rather to do the hardest part of the job, it is necessary to be brave and to say that companies that are losers can no longer exist on Serbia's economic map, that they have to go through bankruptcy to recover the economy, to help the healthy part of the economy. Conversely, all these measures will equally affect both the bad and the good economy, and this is not the way of economic transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17800	The word has the People's MP Susan Grubjesic, so let the MP of the people be prepared, Prof. Dr. Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the two-hour Minister of Finance's exposé and something and after this, I would say, the replica, or the mini-expose of the former minister, I'm really not going to take so much time, I'm not going to deal with the general economic policy, I'm going to say today's subject, which is the budget rebalance for 2005. When we discussed the 2005 budget, we discussed the Memorandum of Budgets on Economic and Fiscal Policy for this year, with projections for 2006 and 2007, and this is in fact a particular direction for Serbia to move on the economic plan in the coming years. Economic policy for 2005 is based on five points, which are the continuation of restrictive monetary policy, a strong budgetary limit in fiscal policy, public sector wages policy, restructuring of economy and accelerated privatisation. All data for the first six months of this year say that positive results are achieved at all five points in the economic policy. First of all, there is a view of accelerated privatisation because the privatisation revenues for this year are five and a half times higher compared to the same period last year and are 27 billion dinars. As far as salary policy is concerned, it is limited, public sector wage growth is limited to 7% and the government has very clearly and firmly defined that breakthroughs in this sector cannot be in this year. With the 2005 budget plan, I would like to remind myself that total revenues were set at 396 billion dinars and expenditures at 416.6 billion dinar levels, and a 20.5 billion dinar deficit was established, which was then 1.4% of the social gross product. However, given that VAT has been introduced since 1 January of this year and that VAT-based revenues are higher than those projected in the 2005 budget, and in order to reduce public spending and the external trade deficit, we are today discussing budget rebalancing, as conditions for further fiscal adjustment have been achieved. So, according to this proposal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has referred to the National Assembly for consideration, revenues are corrected from 396 to 433 billion, i.e. 37 billion dinars are higher than planned, and expenditures are adjusted from 416.6 to 401 billion dinars, i.e. They're down 15.1 billion. The budget surplus, meaning the difference between income and expenditure, amounts to 32 billion dinars and the rebalancing plan, is intended to be spent in the following way: 5.5 billion dinars go for founding capital and funds to lend priority needs, such as the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports, then subsidisation of housing loans, microcredits for the unemployed, for the Guarantee Fund, a fund to promote development in Kragujevac, Bor and Vranje and for similar programmes, and 23.5 billion will be spent on the repayment of the principal of public debt, with the principal of external debt of 1.5 billion dinars, and the rest being internal debt, i.e. The payment of old foreign savings from 31 August this year, the payment of loans for Serbia's economic renaissance. So, according to the new methodology, the budget deficit is 32 billion, which is in fact 3.2 billion per old methodology, because the principal debt is no longer treated as expenditure, just as loans are not treated as revenue in the budget. A few things are undeniable that actually confirm the need for a surplus. The minister listed eight, a colleague before me said that the minister listed countless reasons, and I'm going to list only two, I think they matter. That, above all, is the need to reduce the government debt. Since it cannot affect private debt of citizens and businesses, which are of course in debt and which will continue to be in debt, because companies are taking credits for development, and citizens are taking consumer and housing loans to solve or at least trying to address their existential needs, in order to maintain a balance, public debt must be reduced and brought to a level of about 50% of the social gross product. When we discussed the Public Debt Bill here last week, we reminded ourselves of when, as well as how much the country owed during the 70s and 80s last century, without clear rules and restrictions, and it is clear to all of us that, in the future, we will have to pay both the principal and interest of external debt, but it is important to realize that Serbia is in line with the medium-indebted countries and that it is not threatened by any debt crisis, or that it is able to properly service external debt according to established dynamics every year by 2010. Another reason for the surplus is the reduction of the external trade deficit. The data for the first five months are encouraging, the minister spoke more about it, and I'll just say that exports are up by 52%, that imports are down by 3.9% and that by 27% the deficit, which last year reached a record 7.4 billion dollars. This year, imports are significantly more covered by exports. Experts agree that this situation is due to reforms implemented and accelerated privatisation. Where there were reforms and privatisations, there are both production and exports. Also, the increase in exports and the reduction in imports is due to the introduction of value added tax, as well as the first effects of company restructuring. Data also show that VAT revenues for the first six months of this year are 42% higher than turnover tax revenues at the same time last year. Three important things have been done to reduce the external trade deficit. I will remind myself of the suspension of sanctions on sugar exports, then the bilateral agreement with the European Union on free exporting of textiles that entered into force on 1 July and finally obtaining the status of the most privileged nation in trade with the United States, which should allow for threefold more exports to the United States than before. In any case, I would say that there are no easy solutions and rescue solutions to address this external trade imbalance, nor any magic formula, because this country has constantly recorded a high external trade deficit and, of course, it has to be applied to a whole series of difficult measures to reduce it. It is not easy to restructure the economy, but it is not only a matter of the government's arrival. There is no magic formula, it acts only during pre-election campaigns, when everything and everything is increased, when various saviors and messiahs appear, offering mostly populist and easy solutions that are not applicable in practice. I would say that this particular government has brought one of the most important measures to stimulate exports, which is the establishment of an Agency for Insurance and Crediting Export Affairs. As we could hear here in the assembly debate last week, this agency, apart from insurance for exporters, will also have a credit function, which will provide the biggest exporters with loans with an annual interest of three to four percent. The government recently also made it possible to import equipment worth up to 2m euros with only 1% of customs duties, which will raise the technological level of our economy and increase the competitiveness of our exports. We'll talk about the surplus of preparation to cut the salary tax when that pre-election promise is fulfilled. Now I'm just gonna mention it. As for the items in the budget that are increasing, these are first transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, above all pensions, for which an additional 10.5 billion dinars are allocated from the budget. Then 1.6 billion goes to the National Employment Service and 2.5 billion to the farmers' pension fund. The transition fund is also increasing by 1.1 billion dinars, and will amount to 6.1 billion, due to the accelerated restructuring of the economy and on the basis of the reconciliation of social programme commitments. I would like to remind you that on June 30th, the IMF Director's board gave a positive assessment of the fifth revision of the three-year arrangement, which allowed us to receive another $183m loan intended to boost foreign reserves and that currently foreign reserves in the NBS are about $5 billion. During a positive review assessment, IMF representatives gave a positive assessment of the fiscal developments. From all of this, we can conclude that the savings policy, which was also outlined in the budget for this year, produced results and that there is no alternative if sustainable economic development is wanted. So, I'm sure by myself that it's not the government's goal, or the finance ministry, but the goal is to create sustainable economic development in Serbia. It is unnecessary to say that the G17 parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Rebalancing Proposal and amending the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17802	The word has Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, and let the MP Mika Vlaović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17803	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to start at the beginning, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly, to say that this budget rebalancing, in particular the division of 10 relating to the area of agriculture, is not supported by the Committee on Agriculture, which means that this proposal and this distribution of budget rebalancing have been rejected. Of course, the vote was: five for, four against and one abstention. First of all, SRS and SPS MPs have not voted in favour of this proposal. I think that agricultural producers, and all citizens with approval, will accept the fact that, first of all, the Committee on Agriculture, and I hope that even the MPs will not accept this kind of budget rebalancing, because if this year, and we have heard great praises and the whole history, as many in the history of the Serbian state were positive budgetary business and how negative it was. Today, when we talk about budget rebalancing with surpluses, it is quite important to expect citizens to benefit from some benefit, and I think that in this country the greatest benefit from budget rebalancing should be from agricultural producers, because they have suffered the greatest burden of the collapse of the state, of all the wars and of all the other problems that have been present in this country over the past 15 years. However, the proposed rebalance shows, not that the government and the finance ministry have increased the assets of the agrarian budget, but close to a billion dinars have reduced the agricultural budget. First of all, budget projections have been reduced to improve the production of quality milk, first of all, the purchase of milk reception and cooling devices, and it is particularly unacceptable to remove the position second time with rebalancing. That was last year. We also have this year a situation where they are directly damaged, first of all, cattlemen and dairy producers. Also, for me it is complete, and hopefully for most of you present, it is unacceptable to reduce the position of supplying irrigation equipment, when we have global assessments of climate factors, where it is said that from year to year there will be an increasing global temperature and that, in fact, farming crops will not be possible without a irrigation system. We can't say that this year there's been an enormous amount of rain and now we don't need irrigation equipment, so we're going to cut it down and leave it for a while. For me, and I hope for most MPs, the explanation given in section 10, which applies to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, stands, I will quote what is written here: "The funds for the work of this ministry have been increased compared to originally planned, especially in the work relating to subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on subsidies for the production, export and input for agriculture — used for milk subsidies, i.e. to bridge the production of raw milk, which encourages the total production of bovine and sheep production, which has a direct impact on the development and stability of the entire agricultural production. "Also, these funds define subsidies for industrial herbs, which will be used for premiums for the production of sunflowers, soybeans, oily pumpkins and tobacco, as well as for the depletion of tobacco production in the list." Further: "The subsidies for the production of vegetables will allow the production of vegetables far above the volume of this production achieved so far. Modernising equipment and technology of production is needed. "As part of the funds for the purchase of machinery and equipment, an increase is proposed for the reason that these funds are used for the Register of Agricultural Lands, and in order to continue to produce a comprehensive register (data base) of agricultural holdings." If we carefully looked at the Budget Rebalance Proposal in Section 10, if we listened carefully to what Mr Dinkic is today, explaining this rebalancing, said, then this argument cannot stand. It is falsely depicting this, because much more funds are being removed from section 10 than is being increased for it. As far as I can tell, a figure of about 270 million for the Veterinary Authority is mentioned, most likely to speed up the cattle labelling action, which is under way, which requires extremely large funds. But for some other purposes, and for, above all, an increase in agricultural production and quality, we haven't heard what the increased funds are with this rebalancing, as they stand here. For a reminder, both of you and the public, I must say that this year's budget provides for premiums of industrial plants (sunflowers, soybeans, tobacco, pumpkin seeds) of billions and 442 million. Then, milk premiums - 3.1 billion; wheat premiums one billion and an improvement in milk quality of 800 million dinars. Of course, I only mentioned the larger figures that were planned. In total, the budget rebalancing plans to make the total of €9.433.875,000 in terms of production subsidies and productivity increases. I think it was absolutely an opportunity for the budget rebalance, which achieved the surplus, the government, above all on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, to increase this subsidy, because certainly the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we MPs know that during this year there has been major damage in the area of agricultural production in some regions. I am now free to say, Malten, throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We had since the spring of an extremely large flood in Banat, three municipalities of Banat: Zitiste, Secnaj and Plandište suffered catastrophic damage. In this area alone, 100 percent of crops were destroyed at 5,668 hectares. Furthermore, several thousand small and large cattle died in the area. The damage to dead animals was estimated at 25,700,000 dinars. In recent weeks, we have seen major elemental disasters, primarily followed by the city, strong winds, where the entire central part of Serbia -- from Machva to the southernmost municipalities, has suffered also major damage in plant production, primarily at war and vegetable. Therefore, if we had such a thing in this year, then it is quite to be expected from the citizens of the Republic, and above all from the agricultural producers, that today we, as their representatives, advocate that the agrarian budget and this division is not diminishing, but that it is increasing, at least by a billion or two dinars, because, objectively, there is a possibility, if 3.2 billion are a budget surplus. Certainly, the government remembered that it was necessary to do something in terms of amortising this proposed budget rebalancing, so on Thursday, July 14th, we were informed that the government had adopted two regulations, which somewhat entered the subsidy, primarily the production of bread grain. It is proposed that, essentially, one kilo of wheat be subsidized with one dinar; it means 5 thousand dinars are actually subsidized by the production of wheat on one hectare. If we count on estimates to say that such a contribution will be - from 4.5 to 5 tonnes, then it is a subsidy from one dinar, with the right to grant exclusively registered agricultural holdings and those holdings that have reported that they have wheat plantings. I think that in this and this situation, as was present during this year in the area of agricultural production, there should be no conditions for paying and such a miserable asset, only for those who registered their agricultural holdings, because this government and the Ministry of Agriculture, including the Ministry of Finance, should ask themselves why even half of the agricultural land is not registered yet, although in fact those who registered are benefiting from certain benefits, let me say - certain priorities. I certainly advocate that all agricultural holdings should be registered. However, something about these agricultural producers of ours is that they are demoted by the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance should see what is causing them and that some additional measures make them register the remaining agricultural holdings. And not to condition that they have the exclusive right to some kind of subsidy. The most devastating thing is, in my opinion, that the regulation says, in flooded areas in Banat municipalities, the compensation will only be made for those agricultural holdings that have registered and given them a three-week period to register. Those who do not register will not be entitled to compensation, say, for the dead cattle of these 25,700,000 dinars. I don't think that's right. In the end, it's not constitutional. I can't limit one's rights by that, if they're compensated for the elemental damage. Furthermore, the regulation also regulates the way in which a certain refund for the drying and storage of wheat at a modest amount of 750 dinars per tonne and compensation, on that basis, will only be effected from 1 November or from 1 to 15 November. I think it's a big delay and it's not right that so many of those agricultural producers are waiting for those funds that are actually approved by the regulation. In particular, I don't think it's right that a fee of 12,000 dinars for the sowing of a new breed of wheat will belong only to those who handed over the wheat and who registered their holdings. In particular, it is not right by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is related to the total appropriations of the agrarian budget in both this and last year. These are the means to stimulate agricultural production, above all credit and long-term and short-term loans. Over five billion dinars were paid to farmers last year and this year. So far neither the public nor this Parliament nor the Committee on Agriculture have received any information as to how these funds have been spent, whether they have been spent on purpose, and there has been and there is a regulation to carry out a review and an assessment of the dedicated expenditure after six months of the allocation. Three months ago, the Agriculture Committee asked the Ministry for information on how to use and spend these funds. Until today, that information has not arrived in this House. However, we will certainly insist on this because the public must know how five billion dinars of people's money were spent, which should have helped develop agricultural production. In the end, I want to say, as a research worker, that this budget rebalance has been denied and the resources for research work. I don't think any serious country that has any surplus will stop science and agriculture, but these means should encourage it, because only by improving scientific research and raising the quality and scope of agricultural production can this country go forward. At the same time, the Medicines Agency, which was founded last year, spent 100 million money on its establishment. This budget rebalances another 25 million dinars, and I ask the minister, so let it be my parliamentary question, for which the 25 million dinars are set aside for the Medicines Agency, if it was founded last year, if it is decidently said that they will continue to be self-financed and if we know that for one laboratory and clinical trial of a medicine for registration, those looking for the job are charged three to four thousand euros. Therefore, it is unacceptable for some to be given and have no basis, and for some where it is necessary to help, it is essentially not helping, but even getting away. Counting that my colleagues should also participate in this debate, I would conclude, with that I certainly appeal to all MPs not to accept this proposed budget rebalancing and to use the achieved surplus for certain areas. I certainly suggest that most of it be used for the area of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17804	Thank you, Mr. Machine. I understand very well that it stands out as a parliamentary question. Thank you. The People's MP Mika Vlaovic has the word, and let the MP of the people, Dusan Petrovic, be prepared, and then the MP of the people, Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17805	Mr. President, ladies from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the unpleasant legacy of two previous governments leaves this government with several sacks of hot potatoes to peel with their bare hands. Still, even though I have a lot of grudges, I can commend something. For the first time since 1940, there's a surplus in the budget, and it's always been a deficit. I've got a bit of a grudge, too. In a statement by Minister Dinkic that he will return the backlogs to the workers within three years, and to the farmers in five years, I see that again, it seems to me, in some old habit, and there is the possibility that it was also the best wish, so that a mistake has been stolen, farmers of the second order turned out to be. So small and miserable pensions of 3,000 dinars per month, which are late 22 months, at least there could be a modus for them to level with their employees or for each other to be three years, or for them to be one and the other four years, so that the torment can be divided in a certain way. There's something else said here, and I don't think it stands, that agricultural products are up 45% this year. There is a possibility that processed agricultural products, ripped out in the markets, are more expensive. There's a very long way from the field to the table where everyone takes the kamak, and the farmers stay the least. There's only one example to point out, now there's 15 dinar watermelon at the quantum market in Novi Sad, and there's 35 in the markets. Between 15 and 35, someone takes 20 dinars. This should be dealt with by inspection services, drinking administrations to sell drinking places to farmers, not to buyers and smugglers. In that case, farmers for the product would get a little more, and citizens would buy much cheaper. There's something else to look at these days. In addition to what is low in the price of wheat, 10 and 12% are taken in buying places on uncleanness. If there's only 1.5% more moisture than 13 they take five kilograms to dry, and the wheat with 15% moisture doesn't have to dry, it can be stored without drying. Since it was introduced, I think it's been introduced since 2000, and that the ransom goes with the middleman from JugoInspect, which is what farmers say is a robbery within the law. If that magician in the village didn't mind the hosts, there was a yellowbird sent out of town who finished a school and was "Yugoinspect," and then he said, there's this wheat 10% impurity, 1.5-2 moisture more than it is, despite that low ransom price, the farmers still have that robbery 10 to 15% that someone takes from them. There's been a mention of registration here. Registration is likely to be introduced in order to know which areas are being sown, who is processing and what they are sowing and what they are doing. I would recommend that all farmers register and still use that advantage, as much as they can, as registered. If one day there's a tax or something in the context of who's registered, no one can be unregistered. These 5,000 per hectare subsidies to registered farmers, per hectare of sown wheat, are approximately 1.5 dinar. However, it would be useful if it could force the mill and the bakery industry to give the right price to the wheat, and then the subsidy to be a development subsidy, to be used by the farmer for something smarter. There was a former minister here who gave us a lecture from the economy. I'm not an economist and I don't understand everything, but it seems to me that it is recommended to compete whether it is better or worse than Dinkic and that someone might take it to the government. It seems to me that what the minister said, that this is some ex post smartness, for three years the gentleman has been ministering in Serbia and neither workers nor farmers nor Serbian citizens have seen the improvement of that economic knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17806	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic, then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic, and the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17807	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote against the draft budget rebalancing law. Voting on the budget and amending budgets is always a political stance on whether the government is able to run the country in a good way, especially whether the government is able to manage the country's economic policy in a good way. For more than a year, the DS has made clear that the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia's government is not good and that this government, led by Mr Kostunica, in which economic policy is run by Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, has questioned and ruined many of the prospects Serbia has managed to vote for itself in 2001, 2002 and 2003. I would only be held for two, in my opinion, important economic indicators. They're both talking about today. One rate of growth in industrial production in the first five months of 2005, and the second is the rate of inflation in the first six months of this year and forecasts the rate of inflation growth by the end of 2005. Industrial production dropped by 2.2% in 2005 in the first five months compared to the first five months of 2004. It happens, but exactly what DS has been saying since March 2004. The collapse of the privatisation process, the planned or accidental collapse of the Privatisation Agency, the full stop in the first few months of government Vojislav Kostunica's work, and then the attempt to revitalise the real sector, therefore, industry, agricultural enterprises and other branches of the economy, necessarily led to a decline in production, and above all to a fall in industrial production in 2005. You remember, in this House, we lagged a lot over the last year as there was an increase in industrial production in 2004 of almost 10% compared to 2003. I have now experienced here that Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who did so ten days ago in Smederev, and Mladjan Dinkic said that the past government and judicial authorities ended in 2002 and 2003 in Smederjevo one historic thing for the Serbian economy, which is bankruptcy in Sartide. One by one minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, honours a process that has managed to enable Sartid to make 2.2 million tonnes of steel over the next 12 months and make about two billion dollars. First of all, the public, since the people sitting in these benches know it very well, because it's less or more of a job, I would remind them what a pre-election campaign looked like in November and December 2003. Are they ashamed of all the words they said about privatising Sartida in that election campaign? And the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister and Mr Dinkic, just so you don't forget. What's very important, the other very important thing is that inflation in the first six months of this year is 8%. The finance minister here today said inflation will be at inflation level in 2004, so 13.5%. The IMF, as far as I could tell from what they said, believes inflation can't be below 16%. I don't want that to happen, but I'm afraid inflation can be 20%. What does that mean? So the government is unable to find an adequate plan and lead an adequate economic policy, which will curb inflation. Let's remind ourselves again, just so we don't forget, in the year when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed, in the year that this country was in a state of emergency for 45 days, in the year when we as a state had political instability that cannot be compared to the peacetime conditions, of course, with any other political instability and while the finance minister was Bozidar Djelic, inflation was 7.5%. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen, someone wasn't better from 2001 to 2003. Maybe someone forgot how we lived in 2000. Maybe one of the citizens, and perhaps one of the MPs, but the numbers are inexorably talking about how much inflation was in 2003 and how much foreign investments were in 2003, in that year when this country was shaken like never in its postwar history, I'm talking about peacetime years. However, because I do not know how Mr Dinkic, in the final statement here, will explain his claim that the growth of social gross products in 2005 will be 4.5%, which is also mentioned here, when it is evident that in the first half of the year we have a decline in industrial production and when there is no need to be some sort of agricultural expert so that agricultural production cannot reach a level that was very good and very born in 2004, and because this inflation in 2005 will surely exceed 15%, the DS vote against this budget rebalancing, because it is quite clear to us, as it was clear to us in March 2004, that this government is not able to manage economic policy in a good way. I want to say two things that I think are good. I don't think the finance minister, even though he said it wasn't in a good enough way, stressed it. The profit tax has been reduced from 15% to 10% in Serbia, and the total inflow from profit tax has increased by 54%. Therefore, there was room to make a bold move and even to reduce the value added tax, as well as the income tax, since it is obvious that a reduction in the tax rate leads to increased tax inflows. Obviously, this government had neither the power nor the courage to take such a step. Another good thing is export growth, which is 52% in the first five months compared to the period from January to May 2004, but back to the 2002 privatisations in 2003. That's what the minister was talking about here, but he didn't make the right conclusion. Let's see which of the first 10 exporters in Serbia came to Serbia this year and invested their capital at the time of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's term, at a time when Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus is also at a time when Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. None of the first 10 exporters today repairing Serbia's foreign trade balance entered their capital into Serbia at the time of the government, but during the government of Zoran Djindjic, the deceased, and Zoran Zivkovic. What I mean to say is, what made a very good impression on me is the historical review made by the finance minister for this speaker and an impressive review of the state of public finances in our country since the First Serbian Uprising to this day. I would just like to remind the finance minister that Serbia had the same golden age, if I remember correctly, about 1250 during King Urosh I. So, the famous Urosh I began mining production in the New Hill and Mine mines and began to cook money. I don't know how Mr. Mladjan Dinkic didn't think of this light example, so he could compare himself to one of Nemnjec, when he had already compared himself to Prince Michael, King Milan and the legendary and famous Laz Pachu. To conclude, this budget rebalancing law is not the result of Mr Dinkic's political will. Mr. President, I'd like you to charge me with these ten seconds. So this draft budget rebalancing law is not the result of me correcting Mr Dinkic's autonomous and self-determined political will, neither Mr Labus nor Mr Kostunica. The law on budget rebalancing is the result of an IMF order, which, looking at the state of public finances and the state of the economy in Serbia, concluded that the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot be trusted in this mandate. Since the government can't be trusted, then you have to put aside some money for 2006, because I guess Mr. God knows what's going to happen to industrial production, which is going down this steep, and what's going to happen to inflation. Since the IMF finds it difficult for us in 2006, we have received this bill on budget rebalancing. At the very end, the DS will vote against this draft budget rebalancing law, because it is convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Labus and finally present as Finance Minister Mr. Dinkic are unable to lead the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17808	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Mrs. Komic, you'll have more than three minutes, because we've figured out these 10 seconds, as requested. Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17809	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell you one news that came in today: the international rating agency "Standard and Poors" – which first approved a credit rating in November, so Serbia has only had an international credit rating since November last year – has raised Serbia's credit rating for another degree, which speaks of what foreign investors think of Serbia's business climate. So, from November to today, it's been about seven or eight months, and this really is one good news for investors in Serbia. Another note regarding my predecessor, we renewed the arrangement with the IMF on 20 December 2000. After that, a three-year arrangement with the IMF was concluded in May 2002 -- This arrangement has six audits, of which the first two audits were made during the work of the previous government, from June to June 2004. However, we had an institutional crisis during that period, so there is justification why the arrangement was not continued at that time. I can only say, when we talk about the government's co-operation with international financial institutions, that in June of last year we passed the third revision of the arrangement, in December fourth, in June of this year's fifth and the last sixth revision was left in November, and we will complete a three-year arrangement with the IMF. During this government's work, not only will this arrangement be completed, but we are getting credit ratings from all serious international rating agencies. I think parties that call themselves reformers would still have to be objective. What's bad is everyone should be criticizing. What's good and what's done for the country, no matter what time it is, should be pointed out that it's good. As for surpluses in the budget, it is not the IMF's dictatorship, however, I ask the next question, why did the previous government not settle its debt to pensioners? Because she had a deficit. How do we reconcile what we all want? I know all MPs are asking, some MP, for example, an SPS representative, asked why we don't settle for a few months of retirement this year. Because we have to make that surplus before and then we can go into reconciliation. Just the fact that we're left with three billion dollars and 200 million dinars makes it possible for us to go into retirement next year on 15 January, but not on the basis of some promise, but on the basis of some law. This government will propose, and I suppose the Assembly will adopt, a law on the conversion of pension-based obligations, farmers and others, into public debt, which will then represent the government's obligation. I think we just have to deal with the facts. Perhaps this government has not boasted excessively and should not boast. There are many things still to be done in Serbia, far from Serbia being a country that can boast about its level of development, but still some things move gradually. I personally regret why we hear some praises from abroad, and in the country it is very difficult to hear a nice word. But we will continue to work and this government will be remembered, therefore, by the government whose Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, that the first since 1940 has managed to achieve a modest but still excess in the state register, which will help to pay off accumulated debts from the past towards pensioners, as well as to realise infrastructure projects in the areas of travel industry and other sectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17810	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. The People's Messenger, Alexander Vucic, has the word, so let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared, and the People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is better that Mr. Minister appears after a long time of work, probably much more significant and important than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs and citizens of Serbia. As the head of our party's parliamentary group said, Serbian radicals will not vote in favour of the bill on budget rebalancing, for several reasons. In fact, what is seen through all the media, what is seen as the permanent intensity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to convince all citizens that they live incomparably better than they really do, that it's much easier for them than they really are, how, here's only a day or two more, three months or a few months, in the worst case scenario, so they'll all live like kidneys in the lore. But every day they get better, so just geniuses handle it, so one genius wants to win the Nobel Prize for Economics, like the finance minister, another genius wants to win the Nobel Peace Prize, we heard last night, Sonja Biserko. In this country, everyone wants to win the Nobel Prize, only the people have no bread to eat and only Serbia fails from day to day. Of the many Nobel laureates, Serbian citizens have seen nothing, only new problems, only seeing these torments, seeing thousands of unresolved situations they face daily, which no one in the country is interested in. The minister boasts 32 billion surpluses. For the first time we have a surplus, for the first time we have extra money, which means because of our economy as an American locomotive, you would say. Not exactly, 32 billion were removed from the back of the Serbian economy, from the backs of those who bring money, from the backs of those who feed employees, from the backs of those who should open new jobs, and today in Serbia we have 986,000 unemployed and I will not be a hypocrite to accuse only this government or only the previous one, or just before them the government. They've all contributed a little bit to it, but no one solves that problem. Everyone's been looking and saying, we're gonna solve the unemployment problem. How to solve the problem of unemployment. By putting the surplus back into production instead of bringing it back to the agricultural producers, doing what is most important to us at this point, to start a dead industrial production, which is in decline compared to last year, and forecasting to God by 4.5% of the larger gross social product. So instead of doing that, we're going to do debt repairs. I thought all our debts were off-limits, we didn't owe anyone anything, we didn't even owe each other, we got everything on a gift, how much they loved the reform and democratic forces after October 5th, so I'm counting, we never have anything to pay back. Turns out, we have a whole surplus in the well, we return something, and we don't know where it's up to time or spent, how and how the citizens of Serbia used it, whether they had some kind of idea of it or didn't, and they're not, as we can see, or was it so minimal that only some of them in their pockets had suffered that help and support that was coming and had gone untraceablely. The question arises – why is it not otherwise foreseen that these financial resources are being spent, why do individual government officials, according to what we have in the bill, waste money? Why, when their results are nothing, when they never did anything, from the President of the Republic to the Prime Minister, at all levels. Millions of people spend their lives on presentations, travels, miracles. Why? Now, that's what it takes, and the citizens of Serbia, you go down, you live even harder, you torture yourself and nobody else, and we're going to waste ourselves, and we're going to make vests, and I don't know what kind of miracles we'd be if we weren't very important, Louis 13, excuse Louis 14 to imitate and copy, and their first foreign ministers set up, who thought the most important thing was how much money the state would spend and how many carriages to be gold, and not what work for their country to do. The SRS believes that a realistic and rational approach to solving problems in Serbia is needed, such as taking into account, above all, the basic needs of Serbian citizens. Their torments, their problems they face daily and how and how to get out of this dead end, in which they impose obligations on us how to spend the money of Serbian citizens. If it's the money of the Serbian businessmen, which it is, let's spend that money by developing the economy, by bringing them back to agriculture, to industrial production, to anything that could mean more jobs tomorrow, which could mean less corruption, less unemployed, come on, people, to do it. No, we don't do that, we just fuck everywhere, on every level, let's pay those who ordered us to pay for it so we can have their political support and no one at all. It is time in Serbia for change, it is time for people in power to think the way it must be the interest of Serbian citizens and Serbia's interest in the whole. We have nothing to do with some getting Nobel Peace Prizes and Nobel Prizes for Economics in their heads, because Serbian citizens have nothing and nothing to do with it. They just have a lot more trouble and a lot more trouble. These problems increase every day, and corruption affairs, criminal affairs, that we don't talk. If Serbia were to be cured of the most difficult and most corrupt affairs, you would have in the budget, I can't say exactly, but certainly more than 10 billion surpluses, only based on a direct reckoning with the hardest and biggest corrupters in our country, with the biggest criminals, for whom everyone knows who they are, with the biggest so-called. businessmen, who are very smart and have millions of dollars a day in their accounts, because they stole state property from Serbia or because they do it every day, every day, and no one in Serbia does anything about it and on that matter. It's our key problem today that we're facing, and it's a key problem that we have to win and solve. That's why we need a travel recipe, we don't have that kind of relationship whether it's in this country or that country, but a travel recipe with three largest, Hodorkovski, Berezowski and Gusinski is a great example. They took a lot of shit, had a lot of money, through their media against, and Putin dealt with criminals and mobsters this way. What happened? See how much the state's revenues have increased. They call them, I can say that, and the state has to work here legally, of course, so invite them to a new year's cocktail, so he says, look what you've earned in Chelsea so much and so much money, nice of you to earn, but you'll keep that money in the Russian bank, not in Barcly or Midland Bank, or any other. You're gonna bring that money here to the CSK, to some third club and some neighborhood, otherwise there's no money. That's how it happens with the fourth, fifth and ten of them, and then the rest of them come and show up themselves, they carry out their own obligations to the state, because they know there's no game with the state. And as long as they know that in the state they can find one, two or five people who can finish their jobs, on either side, in any way, the state will fail, die in corruption affairs, and we will boast big results, while the people and the citizens of Serbia will live harder and harder. We need change, we need a different attitude towards the state and its citizens, and I am confident that the citizens of Serbia know it today, see and feel it. And as for the credit rating, I can say that the credit rating of most Serbian citizens, not us MPs who have large salaries, not you ministers who have even bigger, but Serbian citizens who have much less salaries, their credit rating is very low and terribly low. Ask them where they can borrow credit, consumer and any, and where they can get cars on the lease, those who don't have big salaries and those who don't have huge receipts today. It must simply be known that Serbian citizens live hard and live worse and worse every day, no matter how many of Podkin's villages you convince and display on their televisions, in their newspapers, in all the media, whether electronic or printed. That is why we need to change things in Serbia decisively, courageously and uncompromisingly, and I am confident that Serbian radicals will have the strength to do so and therefore expect great and broad support from the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17812	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17813	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current Budget Law for 2005 planned a budget deficit of 20.5 billion dinars or 1.4% of gross social product. Reminders should be made to say that the budget deficit is below 3% usual for developed Western European countries. Today, we have before us the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which for the first time in the history of modern public finances provides for a budget surplus or simply put forward by the Ministry of Finance plans to leave some money in the case of the state of Serbia at the end of 2005. For the period January-June 2005, Serbia's budget revenues amounted to 189 billion and 58 million dinars, with expenditures of 188 billion and 182 million dinars, respectively, compared to revenues, and a surplus of 876 million dinars was achieved. Based on these indicators, it is clear that the fiscal results for 2005 will be far better than planned. The proposal for a budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia envisions an increase in the budget in 2005 by 9.3% compared to the plan. This increase is expected on the basis of the following assumptions. First of all, the continued reform of the tax administration, with the further involvement of the grey economy in legal flows. Better billing of budget revenues in the second half of the year, a positive trend in VAT collection, which accounts for half of all budget revenues. Data suggest that in the first six months of 2005, VAT-based revenues were charged by 42% higher than last year's turnover tax revenues in the same period. The company's profit tax rate has been reduced from 14% to 10%, which is one of the lowest rates in Europe. The nominal rate has been reduced, but the basis for its payment has been expanded, resulting in a total increase in revenue on this basis by 54% compared to the same period last year. The elimination of income tax, financial transaction tax, the reduction of corporate income tax reduced the operating costs of the economy, and the initial attraction of foreign investment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a whole series of economic policy measures to reduce the current balance of payments deficits from last year's 15.6% of GDP to 11% by the end of this year. What are those measures? First, the priority was to reduce the rebalancing of imports and exports. In the first six months of 2005, Serbian exports increased by 52% and imports decreased by 4%. This budget rebalance envisions about two billion additional funds to stimulate exports. The principled monetary policy has led to an increase in the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves to $ 4.7 billion. The efficient work of the tax administration has increased the amount of charges. The restructuring of the economy and privatisation in the first half of 2005 provided an income of 5.3 billion dinars, with the privatisation of three banks of about 22 billion dinars, total receipts of the Republic's budget will be around 27 billion dinars. After obtaining a positive feasibility study, the business climate for international investment has been significantly improved. The first international credit rating was received in November 2004 and soon after a new improvement in May this year, and as we just heard today, we have an additional improvement in the credit rating. A reform of the state administration and reduced public spending has been launched. The government has singled out 1.6 billion dinars for micro-credits for self-employment. So the 2005 budget surplus is planned at 32 billion and 231.2 million dinars, representing 2% of gross social product. These funds will be used to repay debts to domestic and foreign creditors and what is most important will be used for development projects, housing loans, export credits, unemployed. As regards changes in the proposed budget law in the area of spending, the largest increase in transfers is for compulsory social insurance, the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund. There has been an increase in salary expenditures for the Ministry of the Interior, employed in primary and secondary education, funds have been increased to improve student standards. The decision of the government of the Republic of Serbia forms a Youth Fund that will grant the best students and graduates, but also rewards high school students and students who win national and international competitions. Each year, the Fund will grant 1,000 top university students with 20,000 dinars per month, 100 graduates abroad with a million 250 000 dinars individually, 100 professional practices in EU countries of 415 thousand dinars. Financial assistance will receive under 26 years of age, with a minimum average rating of 8.5 and the obligation to work in the Republic of Serbia for at least five years after completing the study. As an architect and builder, I especially want to commend the incentive measures for housing loans. The government will give up to 45-year married couples 20% of their loans as a participation, at 0.1% of their annual interest, and the average interest on housing loans will be 4.5%. The apartment is the best generator of a new development cycle, construction, construction material production, transport, furniture production, textiles and, of course, new jobs in all these areas. On behalf of the G17 Plus party, I call on all MPs to support this law in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17814	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17815	Ladies and gentlemen, believing that the governance of the state is more or less the management of the budget, I think we can carry out a very clear set of evidence precisely on the difficulties of budget construction, revenue assessments, the use of budgetary policy instruments and monetary and financial policy measures, to see clearly that we are societies and states that still have a list of problems, mostly inherited problems, without real mechanisms or with difficulties created mechanisms to solve these problems, and that we do not have a list of priorities as a country. It is probably an inevitable moment, after only four years of real change and in the economic sphere, and in the sphere of the creation of the rule of law, in the sphere of change in the atmosphere in society, in establishing responsibilities and in all those parameters that characterize countries that have gone beyond us in transition. That is why as a parliamentary group and as a party, we disagree with the instruments proposed by Minister Mladjan Dinkic, noting that there are good things that this ministry has done and that the ministry's goal is more or less clear. That's what you saw from the minister's exposé. More or less, than the goal that is completely clear from his exposé, it is hardly possible to give up any other reform government, but it is not the objectives of the problem, but the instruments the ministry proposes. If we agree that, I repeat, budget management is the same as governance, then we must agree that both the budget deficit and the budget surplus are budgetary policy instruments. If we had, as we don't have, a national development plan, that we had documents made based on catastra facts that clearly tell all of us where this country is going and what will be in this country in two, five, seven and ten years, then it would be clear why we are as a party against this use of budgetary policy and budgetary policy instruments, as proposed by budget rebalance. Just two questions and one reminder to the minister. The first question concerns rebalancing, on the side (handwritten) 61, (knocked) 5, quotes: "The remaining amount of the planned budget surplus, on the basis of all expenditure, amounting to 3.234.1 million dinars, together with the privatisation revenues of 27 million dinars, constitute the balance on the account at the end of the fiscal year of 30,234.1 million dinars and will be used to pay off the public debt." It is written in a document sent to the MPs, and the minister here said there would be a debt payment to the travellers, June, July, August, of eight billion. So, what's it gonna be, is what was sent to us in the text or what the minister said? (President: Time.) ) The same applies to page 67 (handwritten), or 11 (knocked), on the payment of 12 monthly pensions. The document sent to us says that through this fund in 2005, the rebalancing will provide additional funds on behalf of the transfer, and still retains the commitment, based on the government's conclusion, to ensure that half of the pensions are paid. So will it be as it is in the document or as the minister said - the subsequent provisions of the Public Debt Act? With an apology for over time, the Minister's question, as far as energy is concerned. I assume Minister Dinkic knows that agreement has been reached on the treaty on the European Energy Community of Southeast Europe. If awareness exists in the government, if it is known that the European Commission is ready in October to sign a contract with the heads of state and government on the Energy European Community of Southeast Europe, to ratify this treaty in this Parliament, it will require exceptional funds in implementation. So, we would like to see in our rebalancing the funds that we will spend on being a single part of Europe's energy market, which is not seen from this rebalancing, and what we consider to be extremely important. If it's going to be in the 2006 budget, I'm giving up that remark as a question, but I would really ask the minister to tell me what's going to happen about the passengers and the pensioners, what's being declared to the pay phone or what's in the document that's being delivered to the MPs? Thank you and forgive me for over-time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17816	The word has a minister, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17817	Here, let me answer these two questions. As for the funds that will be realised as a budget surplus, it is true, according to what we have projected, that at the end of the year we will have 3.2 billion surplus dinars, when the funds for the main public debt are paid to domestic and foreign creditors and when we spend 5.5 billion on various loans related to encouraging certain credit programmes. Twenty-seven billion expected revenues from privatisation, in fact, are the funds that we can use to pay off public debt. Eight billion debt to the passengers, in some ways, belongs to the public debt, so that out of the privatisation revenues, not from the budget, debt will be paid to the passengers of eight billion. In fact, that payment has already begun, since we, by doing the budget law, already found that we had a surplus, we had a surplus in January, we had a whole second quarter. We've already welcomed half a year with a budget surplus. Then it was completely realistic to define one part of the privatisation income to pay off the debt to the travellers, based on the government's decision. The government made the decision and therefore concluded contracts with all the roadways that the Roads Directorate owed for the works carried out from 1998 to today. The payment started in June, continues in July, it flows and will be completed completely in August. So we only had a 700 million dinar surplus for the first five months. It's already given us a basis so we can plan this payment to the tolls, or it can be treated as either investment in infrastructure, which it is, but on the other hand it is a settlement of debts from the past. So it's some kind of public debt, which is not formalised by some public debt law, but there is definitely a commitment to the budget that has been transferred year by year, and it has been regulated by appropriate decisions earlier by the issue of bills. We decided to settle this issue permanently. The government adopted a proposal for a contract with tolls in June this year, where the tolls made a commitment at the same time to give up all court proceedings they had brought against the state in the meantime, so that the state would not now have to pay some high-stricken interest. As far as pensions are concerned, it is true that we in the budget for this year predicted that one half of the pension would be paid if the privatisation income allowed. However, it was a dilemma whether the payment would take place on December 15th, then it was practically planned. Given that this year we will have a alignment with the cost of living and salary growth on December 15th, then we thought it would be more celibate to move that planned half-retirement in a month and combine it with the payment of debts to farmers' pensions. In fact, on the 15th day we are transferring the next year, and this payment will start from January 15th, with the provision in the Budget Law, adopted by this assembly, saying - if conditions are obtained, it was not firmly binding, as it will be when we pass the public debt law. I'm sorry, when we pass the law on turning late. [[We brought it in.]] Now it's being treated like a budget delay. When it turns into a public debt, when bonds are broadcast, then the state can no longer delay, but then it has to pay off. We felt, given that these 10.5 billion in fact will be spent on an increase in pensions on December 15th, then the next payment should go on January 15th -- the reconciliation of half the pension, which was promised, is 8 billion dinars. So it's not about small funds. We'll have that, because by then we'll be earning these inflows from privatisation. As far as the European Energy Community is concerned, I am not familiar with the details of this agreement. Of course it's a significant agreement. What I can say is that when the request of the Ministry of Energy arrives, we'll see if we need to react this year. In that case, the current reserve left here in the budget is used for such matters, which is 1.1 billion dinars or will be planned for next year's budget. In any case, I agree with you that it is an important project and will be settled as an agreement is made with EU representatives, with the fact that, as finance minister, at this point, I do not know the details of the agreement. I expect the Minister of Energy, of course, to request, when the time comes, that adequate payments be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17818	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Get ready: Dragoljub Stamenković, then Istvan Takac. Here's a word from the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17819	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, when the Budget Law or the Change and Budget Supplement Act is found on the agenda, of course it is the most important issue. It's logical, the government has the one who rules the budget. In view of the fact that the amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system is also on the agenda, which is somehow underrated by the importance of the law on amending and supplementing the budget, i.e. in the shadow of this previous law. I believe that this is an important law which is the basis for the adoption of the budget law. I will keep your attention on amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, given that our representative Jovan Todorovic spoke about the law on amendments to the Budget Law. In the light of the law, the Proposer cited the reasons for the adoption of the law. As a reason - that in a unique and comprehensive way, which regulates the budgetary system, in particular the content, planning, preparation, adoption and control of the budget of the Republic and the budget of local authorities, the solutions so far based on the experience of the application of the law are advanced. Of course, there is the definition of surpluses and deficits, a precise definition of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets. What I think is important and what I'm going to keep your attention to is - in order to ensure conditions for public income control, provisions relating to procedures and final accounts are specified, because through the process of consolidation of income and expenditure, all levels of users are involved. On this matter, I will keep your attention. In fact, the draft law offers a change of Article 7 of the basic law which speaks of responsibility for the implementation of the budget. It provides that, if the implementation of funds transferred from the Republic budget to other levels of government, the minister may temporarily reduce the funds transferred to other levels of government and immediately inform the government of the implementation of the Constitution and the specific laws of established obligations of the Republic. Of course, when it comes to this provision, caution is needed. He's needed for possible abuse. It is also necessary because of the possible fear of the uncertainty of funding public spending at the level of local self-government. I insist on paying attention to these provisions. Also, since the budget system is at stake, the responsibility must reach all levels of government. So that goes for local authorities too - preventing abuse. They're there as well. I'll give you an example, from a series of examples, because it's the latest. The city government in Belgrade, in the image of Mayor Bogdanovic, misusing its position, has denied the financing of the Surcin municipality, with reasons not to know who is in power. The chairman of his party's municipal board informed him that they are now in power, even though you, who informed him, and the one who was informed, know that it is not true. To be clear, the new majority is possible, and if there is one, it is not disputed, but it is not disputed to implement it with the correct application of the laws and rules of procedure. He made it very clear that when the majority is created, a request for a session of the assembly is filed, and a written request is submitted, with the signing of the president's shift, etc. In this legal way, there is a change of government. However, in this case, even though it was not known to be the case, Bogdanovic simply denied the municipality's financial resources. It will be so until opportunities are created, either by buying the council, which has become fashion in Belgrade, to create most, as it has done in other municipalities. If she's not here, he'll deny the funds. It's abuse. That must apply to them. I understand the roles of the great when it comes to Surchin. The land there is very attractive, and it has become a fashion to take, buy, rent land. In Surcin, it's very current. But, look at the coincidences, those who are buying it back are the "Bird Product", the chairman of the municipal committee of the party, almost by accident, again in co-operation with the PKK. A lot of coincidences in one place. So, I insist that the responsibility for execution goes from top to lowest level of government. Of course, the media is shutting down these abuses. When I say media, I don't mean people who think themselves independent. I mean those who say they're independent. I don't mean the city information service Studio B, because he's simply a private bulletin of Bogdanović. What I'm saying is, in order to shed some light on another important issue, again on the control of the execution of funds, given that the system implies not only content, preparation, budget planning, but also control, as an important part of the system. They're final accounts. Article 7 of the basic law has established responsibility, and several other places have identified that responsibility. In Article 64 of the basic law, a precise calendar is given as to how and when final accounts are submitted. However, a change and addition has been offered in this law, but the deadline is not touched. It says: July 1st of the current year is the deadline for delivering the final account to the National Assembly. I also have to say to remind the public, and we've heard some things today that are commendable for the first time. I want to ask if it's the first time that no final account has been filed in the last four years. Is that the first time? I remind you, for 2001, 2002, 2003, and I expect and I have no doubt that, on a regular basis, this authority will file a final account for 2004. One more thing to remind the public, in 2001, the hit was when Bozidar Djelic printed out a criminal report form, changed names and last names, gave an order to fill in and search for those arguments. That was a big hit, big chase. I don't have any weight, I don't have any problem, I've never been in the structure of government. I know that after four years of these criminal charges, they're still at the stage of the investigation. I guess they're waiting for God not to give up again, get DOS back to power, so they'll activate them. So, I remind myself of that time and I note, I don't want to amnesty or to think about amnesty for anyone who's faced the law, because I, too, as a socialist, had that kind of damage. I'm looking for the same archaic for everyone. Why? DOS power, which now creates an idyllic image of itself, even when it was in power and now that the former government is, I simply see, racing with their advice. The current government remembered in time, so she said, if she hadn't come up with a situation like that, she'd come up with a better way, no final bill. Of course, they don't want to control themselves and, in any event, they still do, so spending their budget on purpose isn't a crime, it's a crime. However, in amendments and additions to the law, the part is essentially not touched, although penalties for violations are increasing. This increases the penalty for a violation that does not make a final account according to Article 65. The law. He speaks clearly of content there, a report on capital expenditures of financing, when a citizen will have a chance to find out. Report on budget implementation, explanation of major deviations between appropriations and execution. The report on the donations received, did the citizens and when they learned from those who talk so nicely today about their own government by 2003, did they also receive a report on the donations, where the money ended, who scratched it, and the rest, the report on the use of funds from the current reserve, and not to add any further. Therefore, the law provides for penalties if no final account is made according to such content. What happens if there's no final bill at all. It's just easier not to. There's something else I'd like to remind you of, and finally, to ask the government a question, because I support it. The first question, when the Budgetary System Act was adopted, then another provision was introduced, an external audit is required. That's a great reason not to have a final account, because there's no external audit. However, it stood there until the supreme auditory house was determined. The Assembly will appoint an auditor. I now see, for the first time today or for the next session session session, that the appointment of an auditor by the Final Account Assembly is also foreseen. However, once again, a bit of a strange coincidence would be foreseen for the auditor, but that's when the subject is on the agenda. What I want to ask is to ask this government, which is why there's no final account. I'm asking this for two reasons. The first reason, because I understand the previous government, is why it would file a final account showing all the abuses of funds of that time. It would seriously disrupt that beautiful picture they made of themselves as they were the best. The second question, if an external audit is required after the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, why has the Assembly never adopted a final account for 2001, which it did not need. That's why I understand the previous government, because a lot would be seen. What don't I understand? I don't understand this government, which is why it doesn't deliver it to the National Assembly. I don't want to believe the reason he wants to hide those abuses. I'm going back to the beginning, everyone should be responsible for the abuses, but the same archaic for everything. Instead, we listened, and watched and read in the press statements by current ministers now, about the abuses of previous ministers, so for Djelic, something. We also heard about the Road Directorate today, etc. Simply put, I'm asking a question and I'm asking this government to file the final accounts for everything. This government has no reason to hide anyone, nor is the responsibility of those who have previously misused those funds. I will return to the very beginning, the budgetary system is an important issue and it is not a question, but it is not only about planning, preparing, adopting, discussing which items to be removed from and placed on the other, it is very important to control budget implementation. Budgetary control at all levels. I believe this government wants it and I expect this government to pay special attention to the work, because it is the weakest point in the budget system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17820	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. You'll let me explain again. Just as you said, Mr. Petronievich, the law envisioned an external audit, otherwise it would have to be done by the Assembly. The Assembly is unable to carry out an audit. That is why the President of the Assembly's insistence, so all of you, because it represents the entire assembly, has been asked to have the government call a tender. The results of these offers are in front of the Assembly and at the first next session, as you said, the Assembly will decide who it will be. At the same time, this assembly through its committee, where representatives of all parties are sitting, has also drafted a bill that I hope will be in the Assembly in the autumn, which is about the establishment of the institution of the Supreme Auditor, so that the future state, whether by one government or another, will not be able to account in front of its citizens about the funds spent. So this assembly of parliament is capable of doing so and will end with this two-alignment, where the state has one right and the other citizens have another. Citizens have to file a report, and the state doesn't have to; the state has to, too. Thank you again, but we'll all decide this together on Wednesday or Thursday. The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenković has the word, so let the MP Takac Istvan be prepared, and Slavisa Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister who explained the budget rebalancing says - praises for the government's policy are coming from the world, but in the country it's very difficult to hear. I think that's why, Minister, you don't live in Serbia, so they don't care how we live here. But Serbian citizens really do not share the government's opinion and euphoria that honey and milk flow in this country and that much easier and better live. The debate on the budget and the debate on amendments and additions to the Budget Law has always raised great attention both to the MPs and to the public. They were here earlier, and in this assembly since 1993, I have always been present with both the prime minister and most ministers. They explained and tried to bring together the government’s plans or the budget rebalances. This time, only the finance minister is present, and this best shows how this government treats the MPs, respecting the National Assembly and ultimately the citizens who sent these MPs to represent them and represent them. As one discussion was raised here, the government boasted of the surplus, some say it was better if it was a deficit, but that it was a development budget, that more funds were invested in the development of the economy, etc. And it's already a matter of one controversy and looking at the budget. I would like to pay attention to something else, to the control of the funds transferred from the budget to the budget users. I don't think there's any such control here, and that's the result of the different ministries of people from different political parties, so let's not mind the DSS, not DSS, not the SPS, not the SPS, this one has a board president here, this one has a director, and that's how huge budgets are drained and the use of these funds is done. In an explanation in section 13.1. The Republic Roads Directorate says that, given that part of the funding for the competence of this Directorate will be provided from an increased road compensation, it is not possible to implement a budget reduction with the rebalancing. So, slightly smaller funds are being given, and that's what we as an opposition party should welcome, because there's been some savings. However, through the work of the Transport and Connections Committee, we have in good time ordered the Minister of Capital Investment Velija Ilic, the Director of Velimir Ilic, to control the work of the Road Construction Directorate, because we were convinced that the funds transferred from the budget, as well as the European Investment Bank's credit, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, intended for the reconstruction and maintenance of the highways, are not intended to be spent without a decision, to be spent in a non-transparent manner, and that in the absence of serious control, this is causing huge damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, as ministers now respect the government, Velimir Ilic also respected the committee of the National Assembly, i.e. the Committee on Transport and Liaison of the National Assembly, to a large extent the entire National Assembly; we have never received such a report, so the SRS MPs were forced to write down certain applications themselves and to ask the authorities to resolve this issue. Of course, it is not the first time Minister Velimir Ilic has promised to do something, and there is nothing after all. Furthermore, I would also like to draw attention to one part of Minister Velimir Ilic's statement, which, commenting on the development of cable-distributive systems, says: "No one controls them, these are companies that have entered the country into the wild and have done a completely parallel system. I recently spoke with the prime minister and with people responsible for the government's part and with the finance minister to introduce order and to take away the work permits or sell what they use in Serbia. This is how they get in, develop the network, set the prices themselves, do whatever they want, raise funds, share extremely large assets and large profits, and get out of this country, and pay no one in the country. "It is not only to deploy funds, find and control how the funds are obtained and whether they are achieved to the extent that the law provides and how it should be. So, we often have big statements from ministers, who swear on their honesty, their work, the huge big jobs they've taken over in Serbia, and in fact we come to the fact that they don't want to account for the National Assembly, that no one controls this work and that one lawlessness, and the robbery and abuse of directors in the Roads Directorate is tolerated and that, for that reason, our budget suffers enormous damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17822	The People's Messenger, Takach Istvan, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Slavic, and the messenger of the people, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, today's debate brings together amendments and amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. The G17 Group of MPs plus both legal texts supports. I'd like to focus your attention on amendments to the Budgetary System Act. In light of the budget system law, it has been established that the objectives of the budgetary system are to achieve macroeconomic stability in the period for which certain revenues and expenditures are determined, which is usually the calendar year. However, in the current Law on the Budgetary System, it shows a different financial picture, surplus, or deficit in the previous period. Therefore, in the light of the example of other countries in the environment, it is proposed that the proposal for a law should provide an accounting representation, the return of commitments on the loans taken, the basis of annual, or half-yearly ones, as obligations to repay the debt, rather than as expenditure on the budget, which is a positive solution. That's why we support it. The amendment of the Budgetary System Act also refers to a chapter relating to the Treasury and the Public Payments Administration, i.e. to the merger of the Treasury's business with the Public Payments and Forming of the Treasury's Administration. In addition to operations carried out, the Treasury and the Public Payments Administration also carry out operations such as the processing of personal incomes of employees, public payments, monitoring and control of public undertakings' activities, recording and monitoring of state aid and others. It will also be possible in this way to allow the new united Treasury administration through territorial coverage to carry out its activities in an efficient manner. At the same time, there will be continuous information from the Treasury on the implementation of inflows of funds and outflows of budgetary resources, which will allow the execution of public expenditure for all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budget from the same account. Article 23. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Budgetary System, amending the basic text of the law, Article 64, by specifying certain obligations of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources in relation to implementation at the end of the financial year i.e. The following year, in the position of 1st, which determines the process of preparation, assembly and submission of the final accounts of the beneficiaries of the appropriations, especially for the reason that in the future it would exclude the situation which occurred until this year, as my fellow MP said just before me that the Republic of Serbia had not presented the final accounts to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, 2002 and 2003. The current draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act obliges the competent ministry to prepare a draft law on the Republic's final budget for the previous period and submit it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia by 15 May, after the end of the financial year. Local self - administrations must also prepare their final accounts and make a proposal for a decision to their congregations by 1 June. The amended organisational form of communication of the Ministry of Finance with local authorities through a united body of the Treasury Administration and at a local level will in future change its form of action. So, as proposed in Article 25. The draft law amending the budgetary system, relating to Article 73 of the basic law, in paragraph 1 after point 6), adds new three points that regulate new requirements for the needs of the consolidated vault account, such as the obligation to record direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget and budget of the local authorities, and the beneficiary of the organisation's compulsory social security funds, as well as the sub-accounts of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources and local authorities. This is how effective control is achieved, while at the same time establishing responsibility for budget spending. I consider it necessary for the proposed solutions to increase the financial discipline of all beneficiaries of the budget, both in the payment plan and in the spending of the same. As good solutions, the G17 plus parliamentary group supports.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17824	The People's Messenger Slavic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Savo Urošević, and the Messenger of the people Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17825	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, restructuring of the military industry of public enterprises, especially the ZTP, RTB Bor and other enterprises, will bring Serbia a new army of unemployed. They will join the already existing armies of jobless workers and jobs and peasants, who are hardworking their property without any benefit. The government is constantly pushing stories without proof that the current employment policy, which will be implemented through the National Employment Service, and under a special programme of the Government, will provide new employment, primarily categories of jobless people, young people who first seek employment, surplus employees, disabled persons, refugees and exiled persons. My Doberians would ask this question, "Who's crazy here and who's confused? "The government will, first of all, fire workers in reconstruction to hire them. And when they're hired, you don't know. In the past few months, many small shops have been closed and checked out. Many small businesses and family businesses are shutting down. Even the flea stand is closing. You ripped their skins off to show the surplus in the budget. But what you took, you took. Who you're going to charge the hack from now on. I'm afraid by the end of the year you'll need another rebalance because the budget will no longer be charged in the amount you planned. You won't have anyone else to kidnap from. Serbian radicals expected increased funds in the budget to be used to accelerate the economy, agriculture, improve health and social protection of Serbian citizens. Of course it won't be anything. The government, composed of carriages and ropes, of parties that all together do not enjoy 10% of the citizens' trust, is unable to achieve it. Agriculture, which is the most vital branch of the economy and which has maintained such social peace during the previous period, is in a particularly difficult state. Bad weather conditions, expensive means of establishing agricultural production, protecting and maintaining agricultural products, neglecting the state and many other circumstances are ruining peasants. The motive for farming is lost. The government boasts of the budget surplus, and everything else in the country is going down. Go to Dobrich and Toplico, get out of expensive limos and luxury cabinets, and you will see what the people think of you. The people are looking for elections and Serbian radicals. The people are looking for Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17826	The People's Messenger, Sava Urosevic, then the Messenger of Natasa Jovanovic, and the Messenger of the people, Snježana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17827	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, only five years ago, a small number of people in Serbia, and I believe among us, could not assume that in five years we will have a controversial dinar, credit rating, Serbia's debt, less or less than 50%, and ultimately a surplus. Finally, one of the results of Serbia's extremely positive economic policy is the surplus of the budget in the last five years. Although there were a lot of exhaustive discussions behind this speaker, especially from Mr. Secretary, I wouldn't be dealing with details, but I would talk about some principled things. The policy that led to the surplus was disputed, it was said that it was a turn in economic policy for Serbia, as it is known that the budget is one of the main instruments for implementing economic policy, so the transition from the 20 billion deficit, which was programmed by the 2005 budget projection, to a surplus of three billion and two hundred, according to uniform observation methods, which some MPs interpreted as changing economic policy in the country. I would not agree with that, because only by taking a superficial view of the 2005 revenue side of the budget could it be predicted that by half the year, as this rebalancing has shown, revenues will be significantly higher than they were projected by the budget, as the increase in income from consumption tax is, in this case, VAT, unlike the sales tax, which was in force in 2004 in Serbia. It could be concluded that the value added tax revenue projection was extremely conservative and that the budget projection was increased by only 14% compared to the sales tax revenues achieved in 2004. These 14% consisted of some projected inflation of 9.5% and the projected growth of the social product of 4.5%. So, this surplus is not random, he was expecting, and I believe the finance ministry and the minister at the head of the ministry expected something like this to happen halfway through the year. The surplus is not only achieved by increasing the revenue side, but also by reducing the expenditure side. The government is leading one responsible economic policy and is making every effort to reduce public spending. The biggest problem of the Serbian economy at the moment is the foreign balance of payments deficit, and this was a priority for this year of the finance ministry, including the government in general, and in particular the finance ministry. The budget deficit at 15.7% of the social product, which was last year, was to be reduced and this government set itself a very ambitious task, to reduce the budget deficit to 11% this year. The first results have already been seen in half a year, as it has repeatedly been heard from this pay phone that exports have increased by 52% in the first five months and that imports have decreased by 4%. So this shows a positive trend in reducing the foreign deficit. This surplus allows for such a policy to be continued further, and I particularly wanted to highlight the formation of the Export Insurance Agency, and this is a significant incentive for Serbian exports, as this increases the competitiveness of our exporters, therefore, on the foreign market. And for what? Because credentials and guarantees have become something that is expensive, an unusual means of securing the collection of export transactions, so that Serbian exporters' potentials have one big aid from the Credit Insurance Agency. In addition, the export business provided by the Export Insurance Agency opens up the possibility of obtaining a loan based on such an insurance policy, with very favourable interest rates and getting money before being charged abroad, so that the production cycle can continue without waiting for money from the paid job. Public consumption practically, if observations are evened, or the method of calculating the balances this year, will increase about 3.2%, which is significantly less than income growth that will increase 9.3%, so that the development component of this budget that has been challenged by this speaker is possible. The unambiguous conclusion is that from one good economic policy we have received one development budget, one budget that allows us to address a large number of problems in the Serbian economy and I call on all MPs to vote for this budget rebalancing solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17828	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, then the People's Messenger Snježana Stojanović-Plasic, and the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps the entire Serbian public will be surprised, at first I will make one conclusion that Mladjan Dinkic was right about something. He was right only when someone in the retrospective of events in Serbian history in the 20th century wrote to him something that was true, which is that Lazar Pac and Milan Stojadinovic, as radical representatives of the government at a time when Serbia was best and so when they came to power again, had exceptional results in terms of finance and governance in Serbia. But it's really amazing, like a few days ago, when I had to teach an ignorant MP what Milan Stojadinovic did, as finance minister and as prime minister then, ahead of World War II in Serbia, that someone compares himself, and that is to say Mladjan Dinkic with Laz Pacu and Milan Stojadinovic. Not because they were famous Serbian radicals, but because Milan Stojadinovic had the greatest successes, such a stable government and economic indicators, because of the fact that those from the west were coming to his feet, that he was going there as an equal negotiator, that he was an extremely vis-à-vis economic expert, who could at any moment present to everyone in the talks what Serbia can, what its potentials, what citizens can do, what they can expect and how Serbian peasants should live, and that no one sits on their backs, and especially that it does not make too much of a state apparatus. To go back to what upset the public during the promotion, without this castrical speech today, but in the context of writing the press, the general public, and especially the people who asked me to ask certain questions to the minister. In the area where I came from, the valleys of West Morava, the towns of the famous far-fetched town, the Mosquitos and the surrounding area, asked me in my native village of peasants, and just yesterday, to ask the Minister a question. One lady, and she is indeed a lady to you in the right sense of the word, although she is a peasant who may not have eight grades of elementary school, but she has been struggling and working her whole life, and she's doing a lot today, for over 70 years, to survive, asking when you're going to pay her 76,232 dinars, how much you owe her for agricultural pensions. Yesterday she showed me her check, she received part of her pension for August 2003. That's the first question. Secondly, what people have told me is that they are very interested, it is the Union of Drinkers of Serbia, it is this memo that you have also received, I do not know what the epilogue of today's blockade is, they, like all MPs from Kragujevac, have informed me that this will take place today in the approaches to our city, MEPs from Jagodina, and from other districts, what about legalising the traffic of goods on the stand, in a way that is only real and that allows these people to survive normally. All that I don't know how different we are in the programming assignments, and our only right ones, because we are the heirs of those famous radicals and economic reforms and programmes, as the two greats Pač and Stojadinovic have been mentioned, it is impossible in any sense to say, if moral and honorable, the minister is hypocritical, especially those who support him in power. If the mayor of Kragujevac sits in this congregation building, if you are a public finance liaison man and what is needed on your coat of arms to bear the taxpayers, then at least it is hypocritical to promise those same people at the end of last year that by January 2006, you will find another model, one that is suitable for such sales in other countries in our environment and in general, if you want to do so in the UK or already where, it does not matter, from countries in the West, how it is possible that you do not want to talk to them. And you know that it's the people who got kicked out of work, took the severance from the flag, here again, these double-crossed from the dedicated production, rented some gig at the market, did the Nišli, did it even by standard in a better standing Novi Sad, and now thanks to Mrs Gojkovic and the local authorities really build something and build it, there's only cranes in Serbia, and you're saying well now - I'm not going to talk to them. They write their demands to you and, of course, you don't have to follow them blindly, but at least respect it and try to understand those people who barely survive, and a few of them, my mother, show up yesterday, which both in the rain and in the snow, and in the sun and in the abnormal conditions, they have to hold those weights and survive. These farmers are not sore and angry at you, but they say that one day they would invite you to go to the field with them, now these summer papers are, and to see what it looks like, one half hour, an hour, how much the Serbian peasant is struggling and how much he has to earn, so registered under the laws that you have previously passed in the Assembly, must be set aside for the state. And you know that this is what Mr Nikolic was talking about today, discrimination against citizens is being conducted on registered and unregistered. In my backyard in the village yesterday, it happened that other people were asking, coming back from the field, stopping by for coffee -- did you, did you register? And this one says what I'm gonna do, I have to. The man most wealthy in the village has many plastics, if that's Serbia's future. You know when it might be? If you were to completely root out this import lobby, which is absolutely impossible. These are indeed the real farmers and peasants who produce green salads, tomatoes, cabbage and everything, but he says, although the most income in the whole village, can be 15 and 20,000 euros per year, of which there is nothing. A simple reproduction, so that the family around the house can feed, train and invest for next year. Why would these people lie, and why would they talk more about their troubles? That's a big problem today. We have submitted amendments, Mr. Krstin and Mr. Dedjanski, they are from the northern Serbian province, Mr. Masic, professor of agronomy, who talked about it today. With the intensities that larger funds have shifted for agriculture, they have submitted amendments and spoken today, but to whom do we speak, when you obviously do not want to understand and boast that you need an export agency. They don't need peasants like that at all, and this is a waste of money. You were not at all the time when we talked about the export promotion agency for the amendments, you mentioned it in part within those seven laws, and today you said that you single out that half, as the law says, and this when divided by a euro course is not the 12.5m euros. They are capable, and already in the way they were done before, they have what, produce vegetables and fruit, and what this state apparatus, where they have directors, boards and all that they will do from various political structures that make up power, from yours and from others, when they know they are capable of producing it and that the problem is that the state does not have a critical mass of export products. Why isn't there? Because it wasn't her main occupation. They come from the IMF, according to the system as they have already started, with shock therapy from Djelic, serving what needs to be done, dictated, and you blindly execute it. What does a farmer or a Kragujevac worker, Bor, Majdanpek, Vranj, care about the terms "sufficient" and "deficit". We need to know that, we're the legislative authority. Some of us have been in local self-government for a long time, some of us are in the Assembly, but that you explain it in a way that you've distributed, in this case, the surplus, as you wish, there's nothing concrete about it. It's not because you can't see clearly from it, and even some journalists are inclined to do it all day long, you'll see how tomorrow some of you will report it, and I haven't been able to check it out, that you've miscalculated many items. Of course, they'll write it down, so you'll see where you're wrong. Then you come up with these capital projects and surpluses after all these years. What you were most boasting today is one billion for the unemployed, 600 million for the Development Fund. When you look at all of this and see what the number of persons is, 986,000 today in Serbia, those who are not working, so compare that amount with these returned money for the agency, and with the money that you have made easy Covic spends at the Coordination Centre, and other items, you come up with that 10 times less single for employment than for all the other things you want to spend money on, or what you planned for. Youth loans, that's a special story. It's such a hoax and such a hoax, that for days and economists and people who are in a situation that, eventually, they have to apply for it, they laugh. That's this: a national housing insurance corporation. I found this on the website. It says it is supported by the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance -- the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans. A total of 900m dinars are set aside for 1,000 people in the country, with several tens of thousands being reported to be in Serbia at any time. To boast of that, after your promises, it's been five years since that famous video, you're out 900 million for 1,000 housing loans in 2005. Now let's get to the conditions and who are these people who can compete. Perhaps your advisors, with enormously high salaries, may be those of foreign banks operating as domestic, or vice versa, depending on how anyone observes them, with large incomes, perhaps one of the MPs or members of the government, because you've distributed the costs well for those salaries and purposes. But if you ask officials in the Serbian Parliament, those people who are advisors here, who work at the ministry, not to mention people who work in certain businesses, in the bodies of local self-government, this is a mental noun for them. First, in order to get into this procedure at all from all seven to eight sides, they must count on me entering that procedure and costing all of it and eventually granting that loan, is over the 10% participation, another two to three thousand euros. Now explain to these officials, these clerks and these people or some worker in Serbia, you say, young people up to 45, say, people work, one works in manufacturing, in the textile industry, women, and her husband works in a metal complex, how they compete for this, and tenants are, they have two and more children. Here, in the immediate environment, in the city where I live, I know a family, a woman in 10 years, really one of the few examples, and otherwise a nurse in education, she was educated in that profession, she had five sons and one daughter. She's ready to go to the street with her husband who's a machine technician. The local government in town doesn't want to help her. She came and applied for this loan. What's he got to show for it? She doesn't have a job, with six kids she gave birth to. It's an extreme example that, first of all, local self-government has to take care of. Who knows how many such cases are in Belgrade. What are we talking about here? What's this month's war for the smallest apartment? And otherwise, even those who did this market research didn't give you good representations. Explain to me where for 600 euros you can buy a housing square in Kragujevac, or in Nis, there is Mr Stamenkovic, 600 euros in Novi Sad, that is really funny. In Belgrade, someone who knows what periphery for this amount. For a third, only the amount in this display is reduced. That's how you feel about your employment credit, that's how you do with your farm credit. It's easy to throw away your promises, promise everything, and then you come and say -- these pensioners, this woman who asked me yesterday to ask for an amount of over 70,000, pensioners or military pensioners, count on the state to take over the public debt, and then she'll regulate your debt through the stock market for the next five years, starting in January 2006. Do you know how old these people are? Let them be alive and well, but under such stress and in conditions where they cannot be treated, neither to go to a spa, nor to live normally, what is their life span? Now they wait, it's still going to be a speculatory polygon, again someone's going to take big money the way you imagined it and ate the donkey wolf, the money's gone, there's not even for farmers, there's not even these pensions. Both you and the previous DOS government, and you were part of that government as governor, and in 2000, you promised to finish all of this expressly and that your negotiations and your negotiating position with the IMF, and with the World Bank, and with the Paris and London Club of Trustees were so good and firm that you would end all of this and that in Serbia you would immediately increase living standards. It's really cruel today, because industrial production is smaller compared to last year. I don't care about that worker. In the end, I'm going to end up with one of the biggest pains today in Serbia, whether you've shown it one way or another and how you've expressed it in economic terms or form. My last question is, why did you cheat on the armers, the workers of the flag - dedicated products, who today, if you didn't have time or did some other work, issued a statement that strongly condemns you. Tomorrow's meeting of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, their account has been blocked. We'll see tomorrow, because of the interest of the town of Kragujevac, first of all the SRS, who last time wanted to help these people, how we're going to get past this problem further. Their account was blocked because the City Assembly granted them a loan until the day you needed to grant them a loan. Not even today, I'm telling you this on July 18th, 2005, you promised the gunmen a loan, you didn't approve. You know that these are people who have been living hard for decades, people who now, according to the list that you and Lalovic made, wanted or didn't want, because you almost pushed them from the ninth floor down, had to accept these severances and didn't joke with them. Well, you'll see what kind of reaction will be tomorrow and the next days, both theirs and all those dissatisfied, and unfortunately, many in Serbia, because you deceived them. You're free to boast with these billions. Nice of you to give what you promised the gunmen, in turn, and only then come here and in the way you have to do it, you take the bills. I'm afraid it'll be too late then, because not only will you not win the Nobel Prize, but also the shadow of the glory of Laza Pachu and Milan Stojadinovic you will never experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17830	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17831	Thank you, Mr. President. What I will never understand is how there can be people who are wrong when Serbia is progressing. I can understand when you can get along with some moves or disagree. But it's no good when there's no credit, it's no good when there's credit; it's no good when you have a deficit, it's no good when you have a surplus; you do something left, you have to do it right; you do something right, they say it's wrong, you have to go left. It's to stimulate one hopelessness, all of us to collectively kill each other, and then someone else to come and make Serbia feel better. I've never cheated on anyone, but you're cheating on these MPs and the Serbian Parliament, because the Ministry of Finance has not blocked them, I'm talking about the flag of arms, but the town of Kragujevac, for reasons I don't want to enter, because it's not the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction. We paid about 400 million dinars of severance, as agreed. By July 15th, 1.4 billion total for six dedicated factories, so not only the flag of arms, but also Krusiku, the First Partisan and the Lucians. So 1.4 billion in severance. That's what it was our duty to put the social programme we proposed at peace in time. Also, when some MPs say - we should do this, give each other money, I ask only a question - it is very easy to make a promise and say, Dinkic does not give – whose money is it? If you want to give credit to one company, who should pay for it? This is not paid by Dinkic, do not deceive the people, it is not Dinkic who renounces it, nor the finance minister, whoever it is, but must be taken by other taxpayers. Then, as for housing loans for young people, you say, under quotes, they have to apply those who want to go for those loans. No one makes anyone, anyone who doesn't want to, have to apply. Again, I want to say this -- it's quite clear that the only conditions that can be more favourable than these are to further lower interest rates, but there's not much room. See how much interest rates are on housing loans in Europe. They are not lower than 4.5 percent; perhaps in some country they can go up to 3.5 eventually. Indeed, we have come to this programme, which the government subsidises at the level of European interest. A spouse's salary for this loan should be, so husband and wife, 42,000 dinars a month. I agree that one good part of Serbia's citizens, together husband and wife, still do not have such salaries. But surely people who work in congregation services, if it's two people, can afford it, and you say they can't apply. I'm sure they can afford it. Of course, it is also the goal of these governments, I am convinced of all those governments who believe and want good Serbia, to increase standards, it cannot increase overnight. However, what is a different and better option, these are apartments for free. Is it possible to get an apartment for free? There is nothing free in the economy, even when the flats are shared for nothing, we are now paying through the payment of debts to the Paris and the London Club. It seemed to the residents at the time that they were getting something free, in fact the state was in debt -- 40 billion dollars, which was both popular and good, and we all remember those times, they were living well, but someone paid for it. It's now forced upon our generation, for generations to come. We have to pay it off. They're not free apartments, they're apartments that weren't paid for for free, but that's why they're paid by generations of current taxpayers. It is impossible to give under normal conditions, market conditions, and if the world changes, if something changes, I don't know what, but it's impossible for Serbia to create one change in the global world order, maybe sometimes it will be free, but who knows when. In conditions like this, it's not possible. All I can say is there hasn't been any housing loans until a year ago since 1991. So there have been no regular conditions for obtaining housing loans since 1991. Then the banks set off to approve housing loans, the interest was 11 to 12 percent a year. Thanks to the National Credit Insurance Corporation, it's down to 8.95. Now this programme will allow the state to give a loan at 0.1 per cent of the year's interest to 25, with 20 years of starting for those up to 45 years old, to pay 20 per cent of the participation and 10 per cent of the deposits. That's why the interest will be lower, not because it's free, but because the state from the budget shifts those funds to those whose apartments are most needed, and these are young people. But it's not free either. Unfortunately, I would be the happiest if we had conditions and if we could share apartments for free, and if it were built on its own, it would create. This looks like someone won't. Indeed, things have to be set up for real. As for the premium for registered agricultural producers, there is no discrimination here. Simply, we said a year and a half ago that the future agricultural policy in Serbia will be based on planning, or registration of agricultural properties. No premium can be planned in the future unless we know what our agricultural producers are doing, unless they're registered. They, I'm talking about agricultural producers, were released, thanks to this assembly and the government that proposed it, the income tax for both last and last year. Only 16%, one MP noted well, the contribution is currently being paid to the Pension Insurance Fund of Farmers. That's why we add 2.5 billion dinars to the rebalance to secure 12 payments. You don't have to ask me to go to the field. I've been in the field since I was two years old. My mother's from the village. I haven't been ashamed of that since I was my earliest years, I've been selling bostan with my uncle, and I know a lot more than you think about these things. Really, I'm not ashamed of that. There's no need for anyone in these 40 years to invite me to go to the field. On the other hand, around the liquor sellers, I'm really asking the question, all those who protect those who don't want to register, register their small crafts or trade shop and pay a flat tax of four thousand dinars per month on average, depending on the place to place, really, I'm asking them what they support? To share people with those who pay flat-rate taxes and contributions and those who don't have to pay because, behold, they have the political protection of one or the other political parties. Then I wonder, who's going to pay them health care contributions? Who's going to pay when they go to health homes and use services, who's going to pay those contributions? We'll pay for our contributions, the tailors who work in the shops will pay for it. It's demagogy. This is a simple demagogy, that you have the protection of people who can pay four thousand dinars for drinks, and they can't pay contributions to health and pension insurance. Who's gonna pay them to retire? Is there a debt piled up again? They'll pay some taxpayers again, if they're not themselves, but it's not fair. Demagogy is protecting it. We really felt it was necessary to gradually introduce them into the legal system. I spoke to them last year in October and Belgrade, the King and all the places I went. Indeed, there is no more reason to hold conversations about it when it is known that we must have equal treatment for all. As for the question of the esteemed lady in the area of the Mosquitos, who passed through you, about the payment of farm pensions. First, the lady must know that I do not owe personally, nor as a finance minister, a pension to any farmer in Serbia, nor to an esteemed lady, but owes this country; that this debt was made in the 1990s, when there were neither these parties in the government, that only increased debt in 2002 -- another and a half pension for farmers when the previous government was there. The government literally paid off all pensions -- farmers and employees -- and debts made by government debts. I treat them with respect and try, together with the government, to resolve them. How can we solve them? By turning them into a public debt and then treating them like any other debt in the future. It is really not fair, regardless of which parliamentary groups it comes from, to be given, on the one hand, in the story of overauthority of the minister, so he is also in charge of repaying debts, and on the other hand is criticised when it is necessary to make a mechanism to collect taxes. Where do these debts come from? There's no alchemy in finance. In the end, I want to say something that is not adequately understood in my opening statement. Radicals Nikola Pasic were facing France, not Iraq and Belarus. There's a big difference between these radicals and these now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17832	Thank you. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17833	I realized that you were speaking to me personally and to the MPs of the SRS, and so you wouldn't guess much, that famous village and that congratulating woman lives in the village of Katrga, seven kilometers away from the Tombs, in the valley of West Morava. You don't give her the impression, like all those people there, that you've ever done anything and that you have blisters on your hands. Possibly, but now from such a comfortable position, given your hobby and music, you act so that, you know, with me in the neighborhood, and everywhere such people who have more time for such activities would rather call them losers; you know, those are the ones who lose their days than those who are willing to go into the field and dig and clothe. As far as this situation is concerned, you today, Mr. Minister, as the main project here, along with the export agency, and you don't say anything about it, because you yourself know that the external trade deficit has increased by another 10% in the past year and a half, and that it's the previous government, which you and how you got along with, it's the most summed up. You didn't answer anything without encouraging those people, because they really aren't your indicators. With these housing loans, as you have called them, for young people, in addition to a large procedure to enter and compete at all for these 1,000 loans, there is indeed a problem with what you do not agree in Serbia, and what you potential as some achievement, the standards of Western European countries. When you give these people the opportunity to make money and have an average of 1,000-1500 euros, then come out with a project like this and boast about it. Don't say that now that it's clear from this false example of a 50,000-euro loan, and someone needs 270 euros for a monthly war and 5,000 wars for participation, and for that 2-3, and where people can find it. It is possible that these will be from your immediate environment or from these companies that are only one method of money laundering and the possibility of a fast and efficient profit. The only thing that comes out of production is the money. You're asking where we can get our debts back. It's just from production. Not by selling out the assets and filling the budget deficit from the previous period, as Djelic used to through privatisation, which was more than obviously a robber and who left people on the street, and through the possibility of people working and making a fair profit from their work. It's amazing that you're using such numbers and you're giving such praises, and you know that in the country, millions of people don't work. All that that happened and that through taxing everything, and especially basic life supplies and a huge tax-added strike, you've been incometing so much now, and what the radicals told you at the end of the first quarter, and it was quite obvious in so much an operation and such a press tax that is being made to ordinary people that you're going to get into this situation. At the very least, it's hypocritical to brag about it and to know that millions of people don't work. (President: Time) On the other hand, you as a man and a member of a political party that has no... (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... the foundation of neither the Serbian tradition, nor what is currently in the electoral body, because it is indeed some index of 1.5, however, and it is a mental noun, or below 1%, depending on which city, you are talking about what radical heirs are and what kind of policy the radicals have been conducting and the one we are running right now. Let us go, Mr. Minister, with these millions and a half to two million voters, and maybe there are more of them, to think about it and that when the time comes, and it will be much sooner than that December 2007, we go honestly and responsibly to do our job. People are bitter and don't take it personally because you're such an important man, so you're the one with that name and last name. No, but you are the finance minister, this was entrusted to you by Vojislav Kostunica and you as Mladjan Dinkic are currently in Serbia personification of everything that is bad and for what the people live in misery and poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17834	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic, so Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17835	A question has been raised about the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. This agency, as you know, was formed by Parliament's decision, the law was passed on Friday. Now that President Tadic has signed the law, he will enter into force, as of September. Following the adoption of the rebalancing facility, conditions for payment of founding capital are obtained and from autumn, exporters will be able to count on loans from three to four percent a year, which will be approved by the agency. As for the 270-euro housing loan war, it is really our opinion that it is better to allow people to pay the war for a loan for an apartment that will be owned by them than to pay the rent. If anyone has a different opinion, they're entitled to it. Also, it slipped away from some other debaters earlier, he says it does not need the privatisation revenue to be used to meet the budget deficit, which is exactly what we have achieved with this budget rebalance. Finally, we have a situation that privatisation income will not go to cover the deficit, because there is no deficit, but for infrastructure and development projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17836	The People's Messenger, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic, then the Messenger of the people Vladimir Homan. Here you go, Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17837	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, citizens of Serbia, I will not continue to engage in this high-level debate between Mr. Minister and a respected colleague, because I am simply not professional enough in this area. I just want to respond briefly to the mention of the party G17 plus her rating. Let us not call upon suspicious public opinion trials. I will immediately present the results of the G17 plus party in Leskovac in the local community council elections. The G17 plus party received 14% support from Leskovec citizens. I don't want to compare it with other parties, but trust me, some of us wouldn't be too happy with that comparison. As for budget rebalancing, to get back on the subject, you'll allow me, after all these discussions that are under way today, I just want to briefly recapture and highlight some of the views that the G17 Group has on this issue. I hope you don't mind me if as someone, as I said, who isn't high-ranking in this area, I speak the language of the citizens and try to translate all of this into their language today. What does the Serbian budget mean? When we talk about the budget, we talk about how ready we are to raise together money in the common register to finance the common costs. So, we are not talking about any burden on citizens who are taking for the sake of their own goals, but we are talking about collectively raising funds for common needs. We're also talking about how much we spend and what we spend on, but also what we plan on doing with any money saved. That's what we're talking about today. Speaking of this rebalancing now, I can say that for the citizens we have one very good news and one news that some people see as bad, but I'm not sure that's the case. Good news, the great news for Serbian citizens is that we saved money. So we have 32.2 billion surpluses in the state register. We collected 9.3% of the money more than we planned, and we spent about 4% less than we planned. That's how we made our savings together. That's what's really good news. What's the bad news? Some say it's bad news that we can't share this money with everyone who needs it. That's right. We can't share this money. Why? For two reasons. The first reason is because we have debts and the biggest debt is the one we owe ourselves. So we have to pay back our debts and those debts that we have made, to admit, to some common bad decisions, because in one period we have given confidence to some governments that were not responsible enough for the citizens and who simply used their money without their consent. It's an old foreign currency savings loan, it's a loan for Serbia's rebirth, it's the money they took from us without our consent. That's what we have to get ourselves back from this surplus today. Also, of course, we have to pay back some external debts that are compared to the 22 billion we owe ourselves only 1.5 billion at this point. Someone told me before about all this compared this whole situation to one home budget. It's a close comparison to me, but I wouldn't agree that it's about family, the head of a family that's denying bread to its people, because this is about this family being responsible for the weakest and the poorest, because that third of its total budget separates right for them. This is where the second question is asked. Is this relatively poor family, which lives in unconditional housing conditions, which has a job from time to time, in which many members are unemployed, but also young and talented, wants to share all this money amongst the person, spend it, and doesn't know what to do next tomorrow, or wants to invest this money in the family business, secure jobs for those who are unemployed, encourage those who are most able to learn, school and contribute to this family again tomorrow, and whether they want to invest in better living conditions in which they will all live together as a family. I think the answer of most Serbian citizens is that we want this another one for our country. That's the answer, G17 plus. Yeah, we want this second model, and that's the model that promotes this budget rebalance. In the end, what we're really planning with this money, that is, how the government and the finance ministry planned to spend this money. How are we gonna spend our savings? We'll spend on export credit, because we have a problem here, we have bad results in foreign trade. We have an unemployment problem, and that's what we want to solve with this budget surplus. Seven thousand people will get a job. This is not enough for Serbia, but it is very important for Serbia to get 7,000 new jobs, 7,000 new families will be taken care of this way. Furthermore, the apartments the minister had already talked about, I know that not everyone in Serbia will be able to solve the housing issue, but I want to tell you that I got a job in 1985 when I was 24, with a college completed and a long-term housing loan to me was just a dream from the past, a dream from my parents. So this way people of these profiles will be able to get apartments and will be able to solve their housing problems without talking about how many thousands of such young people in Belgrade today are tenants and pay 300 euros every month. So that's the 300 euros they're going to invest in their own apartment and that's what made this government real and possible. Also, encouraging young people who are capable and creative to school in the country and abroad, encouraging positive selection of personnel, preventing brain drains, as one of the biggest problems we've had in the past, and that's what we get from the Youth Fund, and that's what the G17 plus fully supports and what I have to say is, in some way, it's also initiated its scholarships to the best students we've ever had as an NGO. Of course, we also support the part that will go further to solve social problems and the most vulnerable part of the population, and that's also what the G17 plus will support. So because we want a peaceful and safe age for our parents, because we want a challenging, stimulating, creative and successful youth for our children, we will support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17838	People's MP Milorad Mircic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Then MP Veroljub Arsic, Mr. Homan no longer has the time, so he will then speak to MP Momir Markovic and Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17839	I'm reporting from article 100. The Rules of Procedure, since you did not give your colleague Krasic the right, which every MP has when he advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to receive his word immediately. I'm reporting not only for the presentation of a colleague who brought a lie here. First, political parties do not take part in the selection of local community councils, but in individuals. Individuals with a name and a last name, and that's the law, only if you haven't changed the law in the meantime, and you haven't informed us. If so, then let us know in time that we are participating, but it is not a criterion of the party's rating, but it is a criterion of the reputation of the individuals on those lists. Secondly, the main reason for my report is what Minister Dinkic just tried. I don't mind if the minister, as a proposing representative or a pronoun, comes out for this pay phone and pollinates with MPs individually, but it's time to stop teaching lessons, especially the SRS. What the SRS wants to point out, which is the fact that there is a phenomenon in the economy as an area, which is that one country that is in the deficit when it comes to export and import, one country in which it stagnates economy, one country in which there is an increasing and larger tax burden, and that is why it does not work either. A small economy with a budget surplus. It's literally something that with this Sonja Biserko could be running for the Nobel Prize. I'm just saying candidate, I'm not saying he's gonna win the Nobel Prize, but he deserves it anyway. We do not speak to the minister, we Serbian radicals, if it goes left or right, we would rather send him in the direction that this Serbia is reborn, that taxpayers can financially withstand this imposition and that there is finally a rebirth of both economic and economic in this Serbia. Not to give us a lesson as to what kind of historical fact that indicates how radicals used to be orientated, and how now. And once upon a time, radicals were also oriented, oriented towards rebirth, improving Serbia. What we advise at the end of the minister, it's to stick to the instrument, to keep on playing, possibly well-intentioned advice is to move on to the tobacco instruments, obviously the wires don't go out of hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17840	Mr. Mircic, I didn't realize what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was about. I don't know what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. I can't give you an explanation. I'm just saying, I'm asking you if you're looking for... I warn in two ways with a bell, and when something specifically breaks, then I interrupt the speaker, so I warn. It's not a dispute, I've been warning the previous speakers over and over again. I'm asking if you're asking to make a statement to the Parliament about this breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17841	Mr. President, a member of the 104th Dignity. Someone who comes out on a breach of the Rules of Procedure can't insult the Rules of Procedure by his own actions. At least that's why I think he should be warned. As far as that goes, it's clear. As far as individuals are concerned, it's really a pleasure to say that the best individuals from G17 plus won in those local communities. If it's about lessons, I'll be happy to teach you lessons here until the moment you realize how you should behave in the Serbian Parliament. As far as radicals are concerned, sometimes and now, they're not the same radicals and you don't have any hereditary right to what the radicals used to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17842	Now I'm warning you, Mr. Albianic, under a lesson you mean the data that is available to you, I hope, nothing more than that. Thank you. Please, there's no reason to be such a tension. A five-minute break, so we're moving on. Thank you. [[After break – 18.55]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. The People's MP Milorad Mircic asked for the reply, and then he had the word of the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, then the People's MP Momir Markovic and the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17844	A colleague Albianic took the right to further explain himself, giving an explanation of the success of individuals in the elections for the council of local communities, but I do not understand why you are just now telling citizens in certain local communities, living in the territory of the municipality of Leskovac, that they were your candidates. When you're so popular, there's a good rating, you should've told them right away so you could see how people would vote for your candidates. Secondly, I'm still convinced that most of you sitting here in benches and in-house people don't know, and the wider family doesn't know you're members of the G17. They're having a hard time putting up with shame like this, and even if you told them that, you'd see what kind of reaction would be within the family.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17845	I warn you not to insult the Members of the People by party membership. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17846	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have listened here to the various praises of the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Government, Mr Dinkic, who boasts of the surplus. If someone is very serious and is serious about this business, such as public revenues and public expenditures, taxes it introduces, if he reads little stenograms of SRS MPs when the draft budget bill was for this year, it will be quite clear to him that in time, the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget was unreal and that the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget, given the value added tax, which began to apply as of 1 January of this year, would make much more income than is foreseen by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account two basics. The first is that the number of products and services introduced by the tax is expanding, and as a result, the number of taxpayers is increasing, and here I primarily think of farmers who are now required to register as entrepreneurs, and on this basis an even more full budget based on income income for citizens. That's the revenue side and that's the so-called. The surplus, as you say from the ruling majority, that's how it came to be. Now the problem with how you spend that surplus, which basically doesn't exist, is made up. So, the revenue projection was for the growth of gross national product, you calculated inflation, you compared it to the 2004 budget, you increased it so much, and that's that. It's not like that. You spend money on that side that's not, first of all, an appropriate moment in which the state is supposed to reduce public debt by two basics. According to Mr. Minister, one basis is old foreign currency savings, and the other is a loan for Serbia's rebirth. In both cases, those owed by the Republic of Serbia on this basis received state bonds. Someone's keeping these bonds, someone's already sold them, and now they're asking whether the state with the 20 and the change billion, how much it plans to use for that purpose, for the payout it claims, on the money market on some more favourable terms to buy its debts from and who it's going to buy from. Certainly not from those who are the most endangered in terms of old foreign savings, but from various financial speculators who have come into possession of these bonds. They will be returned with money, not to the citizens of Serbia, and do not lie here and deceive. That's where the money will be used. That's the first question, let's clear up this praise about how you're going to reduce public debt in favour of the citizens. There is no benefit for citizens, only someone who has abused someone's trouble will come cheaply to these bonds, now expensively sell them to the state of Serbia. Shall we assume who it was? Is there any National Savings? There is. Is there any commercial banks we don't know who owns anymore? There is. Does Delta have a bank? There is. There are all those who bought old foreign exchange bonds, 20% and 30% cheaper than the nominal value of those bonds. They'll make money and they'll be better off than this so-called. Sufit. Where did that surplus in the Republic of Serbia budget come from? Did anyone ever wonder where all of a sudden that kind of money came from? That money is such a praised surplus that doesn't exist, from a VAT of 16 billion dinars. You introduced him to drugs, to prosthetics for disabled people, to bread, to meat, to milk, to eggs, to food for the feeding of infants, to reproving in agricultural production, means, to seed goods, plant protection products, plant protection products. That's the extra part, one part. The second part, worth 11 billion dinars, is based on the income tax of citizens. We now return to farmers, because you have forced farmers to register as farmers and no longer pay taxes on the basis of cadastrian income, but on the basis of the fact that the farmer is in debt to some advance on income that has not yet been made. That's that extra 11 billion. Let's keep this up, and we'll get to that 32 billion. Where you use them - for the budget reserve. What: 3-4-5 billion? Who had the most damage to this kind of taxation? They've all had damages, but the biggest damage has been caused by farmers, because they've never had to pay a re-promatter tax or VAT before, it's the same. Did you return anything to them? You say you'll give them bonds, then you'll pay off some next surplus. You'll turn that debt into a new public debt. Where do these 22-23 billion dinars go -- financial speculators? You will now make the agricultural pensioners sell their bonds to financial speculators again, in another way. There's no other way in this case. Furthermore, wasn't it fairer that those pensions were finally paid off, that through various subsidies the so-called so-called "supervisory" would be taken into account? The surplus over there, is that where you point it? You're talking about the Export Credit Agency. Let's talk here for a minute. You're saying that this agency is going to speed up exports, that it's going to be bigger. In what way? By charging the exporter with the commission, because you gave him credit, you allowed him to come to the loan. Is that how it is? By charging the exporter with a commission for exporting the goods? Is that how you're going to increase your exports? Hardly. It's extremely difficult, given that very little we can offer to another country right now. Why shouldn't that money be directed at subsidies to exporters, so that the state rewards it a little bit, to reduce that difference between imports and exports, no matter what the base of the debt, whether it's private, whether it's on a state basis. He exists. Here's the story that only 300m euros of two billion euros have been taken by the state, that the rest of the 1.7 billion euros is a private debt and that it has been used for the purchase of equipment. I don't think so. It may be private, but rather, it would have been said that the debt was created by someone wanting to import goods into Serbia, because it is much easier for him and much faster to get money if he imported something into Serbia. Also said, the minister said, the difference in demand for goods between domestic goods and market demand should be complemented by imports. That's not true. These goods of wide-ranging consumption which are imported can also be produced by domestic companies, whether they are state, private, privatised or will be privatised. That's not the problem. The problem is that imports are low-priced because the state does not care about its domestic producers. She's not ready or able to protect them. That's why you've got the so-called. the difference between the offer and the demand on the market. Will you protect that with new customs rates? You won't. They exactly match those importers, the team that owed the state 1.7 billion euros. That's not how you run the country. Since 5 October, you have left everything in the state to be able to do as well as know and know, in legal regulations that are not laid down and are most often not good, such as this Privatisation Act. You let anyone, whenever they wanted and how much they wanted, import into Serbia under some pretext of free market. Now we have this situation that we have, that we have a fall, although you don't want to show it, I just don't know that math you're going to apply, but you're proving that everything in math is possible, you have a decline in gross social product. You're talking about agricultural production and premiums, that's one of the reasons why it's being introduced that agricultural producers have to register. That's not true at all. The premiums aren't at all controversial. Through the Republic Veterinary Office, you can tell exactly how many big cattle there are. Don't let's lie about it. Any throat that is for breeding, which is for milk, which is for meat, is registered in the Veterinary Office. Every cow that's for breeding gets its own number by which it's being led. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? The only thing you want by registering individual farmers is to charge them VAT and for those products they use for their own purposes. There's no other way. It's still not under your control. That's the only reason you want to register agricultural producers. In addition, the question arises as to what to do with the farm that is the most endangered. Is there a ransom price for wheat now? How much diesel, which is an extremely important factor in the price of a agricultural product, is more expensive, from 36-37 dinars to 62, and do not have the right to subsidies, they do not have the right to regressed oil. That's how you take care of the country. Oh, my God, it's hard. If you are considered to have introduced taxes on students, then it is a shame to share these costs in the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17847	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic and then by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there goes the minister, and there's so much he can hear. Even so, he was the only one from all over the government. I suppose, when it comes to the budget, they should be both Prime Minister and Minister. I expected him to be Minister for Capital Investments here, since most of the budget funds are withdrawn for the ministry. But he seems to be back next to Ibra, waiting for some grandmother to fall into Ibar, to take her out, to do a godly act. She's right about DS when she said these weren't working. Dinkic is right when he says they were wrong before. We are right, both of us and the citizens of Serbia, when we say that both are wrong. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a surplus of nearly 32 billion dinars, which was found in the budget, both guilty and due. Dinkic, neither guilty nor debtor, suddenly has to think about what to do with 32 billion dinars. What makes it real, and how is it real? The VAT is 18%, Mr. Arsic, the MP of the SRS, listed the entire range of very important products on which the VAT was taken. It's that 32 billion. I'm just going to make it very clear to the citizens of Serbia and you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Do you know that a drinker who goes to charge for a daily drink has to wear a fiscal register? When he gets there, he charges six or 60 dinars, how much the daily lease is, he turns the fiscal register and makes the bill. Unbelievable. The cobwebs, who usually pay for three or four thousand dinars, also have to have a fiscal cash register, so the fiscal cash register breaks down, so you come to buy a sandwich, a muffin, and he has to write on a big form a bun - piece 1, because he has to issue an account. You've taxed, Minister, I'm sorry he's gone, everything but the air. And he would, but he didn't know how to measure it. Now he boasts, talks that Pacu had a surplus, that Milan Stojadinovic had a surplus, and does not talk about how the economy functioned at the time of Pachu and at the time of Milan Stojadinovic. As many businesses as there were then and how developed it was. It does not talk about how relations were with countries in the environment, how much was exported to those countries in the environment, what was exported and what was a real surplus. Today, the minister was talking about bank bankruptcy. He talked about bankruptcy, how in bankruptcy states take over debts, the company comes out of bankruptcy, like US Steel, then it's sold as if it never owed anything. Then high furnaces are opened, for which Serbian citizens have been detached from their mouths and made for years. Now it's reopening and it's working. The story of banks, why doesn't the bankruptcy end at last in these four largest banks. Here, four or five years since the bankruptcy was introduced into the banks. Why the Beobans, who can take down bankruptcy now, don't pay off all the debts and what's left of it to work automatically and be one of the better banks on the Serbian market. In the proposal, you will see the introduction of a new SDK. One of the speakers initially said, the SDK handed over complete infrastructure to the National Savings Bank and is now forming. And how much time and resources does it take to form infrastructure in one such institution? What's gonna be called the new SDK, it doesn't matter. It'll be completely uninfrastructured, and most importantly, no business space. Let's see how the spending of what Dinkic calls a surplus is planned, and what is, in fact, a peeled skin from the back of the Serb people. Reserved funds for the return of ino-credits for 2006, that means that these foreign partners, financial partners, don't believe that next year you'll be able to provide enough funds to pay back your debts, but they said, make sure you reserve so much of this, that it stands. The financing of imports, the external trade deficit is huge. He says - we'll export. We got, in addition to the positive feasibility study, and today the sparrows on the branch are already chirping -- a positive feasibility study, and this is that we are the most privileged nation in trade with America. Great! I asked anyone who mentioned it, and now I'd ask Minister Dinkic to tell me what it is that we can take to that America. Malin, which has failed and which you have bought for 30 dinars per kilogram; cherry, which can also go to that market, which you have bought for 14 dinars per kilogram. That's what you could buy. Cereal? He's gone. Kill the rain, kill the city. The peasants didn't sow, it was just as much for us, the question is how many countries would have to import to feed the nation. The 5,000 per hectare premium, that's what the citizens of Serbia will get, the villagers will get it once, I hope, once you're out of power. What about the army? Why didn't you predict these couples, which you peeled away from the people, to help the army at least a little. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that high-ranking officers live on the border of existence without talking about lower personnel. They're literally surviving. I'm lucky or unhappy that my son is in the army, kids, so to speak, they have nothing to eat. It's fortunate he's in the army, and it's unfortunate that Dinkic provided him with nothing to eat. We're talking about taking off the invisible with a 1958 rocket and a 1962 radar. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today those missiles and those radars are in the garrison, there are no others. The KLA is twice as equipped as our army. Here, in this proposal, I don't see the minister, at least of this money, going to separate a little bit. On the contrary, he says that he will sell out what the army has. If I were to leave time to Mr. Krasic, I'd say three more words, since he's the last speaker from the SRS. According to Mr Dinkic, part of the funds is provided for the Horgos-Belgrade highway. 20 days ago, Minister Velja Ilic said he would give it to the concession. So we have to finish it, and then the concessionary literally hand it over to - thank you very much, that he's just collecting the Kajmak. The SRS has submitted more than 30 amendments and we will tell you a lot in defense of the amendments. I hope it will be common sense for these amendments to be accepted and that these funds, which are separated, are properly and properly spent. As for the Nobel Prize, the great wishes of Minister Dinkic, because I already read three times in the newspaper how he will win the Nobel Prize for Economics; from the Nobel Prize, Minister Dinkic, there is nothing for the economy, but watch with Keb to finish the ninth Beethoven Symphony, you may get the prize.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17849	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Let's not argue about symphony. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. You have 20 minutes at your disposal, Mr. Krassic. You're not required to use everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17850	This morning I explained why I'd singled out my opinion, because this can't go like this. I guess the Budgetary System Act is first amended, so when it comes into force, then budget rebalancing is carried out in accordance with the amended Budget System Act. Now that it goes to jutura, about one cost, then, if you look at one law and another, you'll notice a huge disagreement, even in positions, not just in terms of table view, but in general when you look at the structure of the budget. Since a completely unnecessary picture of a necessary story about a budget surplus has been created in the public opinion, I must at first remind you of something that happened in this room. As the 2005 budget was adopted, the government presented data that it plans a 20-billion deficit and does not cover the deficit. So, neither does the duty, nor does the printing of paper of value. It was simply an open question of deficits. Then we objected, the minister went out, answered, and said, you know, the deficit problem is a fixable problem. It is resolved so that if the deficit is not covered by some new debt, it means that public expenditures are only moving at the level of public revenues, which means that the Budget System Act already has its own formula - what is real is being spent. Then I went out for a pay phone and proved to the minister that there was no budget deficit, that he was just a fictitious category. It didn't go through, you see, six months, the minister came and admitted that the budget deficit was never there. Now, to cloud all this, you go with a story about a budget surplus. However, the story is also too simple, a deficit-sufficient, a lack of funds and extra funds. Then we listened to some historical debates here, completely unnecessary, that audiences simply entertain certain things, as a surplus it's something spectacular, it's something special, it's something extraordinary. Mr Dinkic does not know the one basic thing, and during the 50 years of the Socialist Authority, at least 15 or 20 years, when a final account was made at the time of the budget and the SFRY and the final account of the Socialist Republic of Serbia's budget, was a special item to return the surplus income over the expenditures of the economy. Let me remind you a little bit, those of you who have a few years, as in 1984-1985, as the excess revenue over expenditure was returned to encourage the development of microelectronics and other activities and other areas. So today being presented to us by a surplus, that's the category that existed and it was happening. When there was a little more error in planning, then there was a build-up of public revenue, expenditures were defined by a law that enforces obligations under the law, and when this positive difference occurred, then at that time of social self-government, as workers were mastering overall social reproductions, there was a return. The younger one skipped those lessons, so he doesn't know that. We have a few important problems here. The first important problem is that we don't have the state of our public finances today. We've got, and says Junior in one place, during the first six months of charge 189 billion, and consumption 188 billion, and that's page 59. And he says, the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first half of 2005, and a surplus of 676 million,074 thousand and so on. He says in the next paragraph, it's not 670. It's 900 million. That's unserious. You don't have a consumption structure. If you look at that consumption structure, it would be about like this: if the monthly commitment to a direct beneficiary of budgets was, say, 100 million a month, Mladjan Dinkic paid 80s and thus showed that spending was within the limits of something and that surplus was a perfectly normal thing. It's so depicted, but in reality it's not. Now the budget owes the Road Directorate five billion and some dinars, not to mention other debts. If all debts are considered, then there is no surplus. What does "suffice" mean? The surplus shall be determined at the end of the year or before the end of the year. The surplus is defined by the Budget System Act. He says, if at the end of the financial year there is an surplus of revenue over planned and prescribed expenditure, the surplus is transferred over the next financial year. He raised the story of the surplus. That surplus under his complicated procedure is 52 billion dinars. What's that surplus for? Apparently, the surplus story is an IMF order to provide funds to guarantee that next year, even this year, some obligations will be served. Why didn't you give us, let's say, when it comes to the law on amendments and amendments to any law, then it's given a review of the provisions that are being changed, so why didn't you give a review of the provision of Article 5, where obligations were made on the basis of guarantees and counterguarantees. You've been planning 100 billion on rebalancing, and 100 billion on top of that, you have to give guarantees of the icontribution. Of that, 55 billion for something that has already been completed and ratified and 45 billion by the end of the year goes as an assignment. Here you express a serious suspicion that certain guarantees and counterguarantees can also be realised. Why? The Road Directorate will not be able to serve obligations to foreign creditors. The highlight of all this, these stories, is that the Budgetary System Act is changing and no classical economist will give you support for this. By the way, let me also say that we had an extremely good law on public incomes and expenditures, until he took it to cherries Djelic and he made a mistake. To understand which mistake Mladjan Dinkic made, she is three times bigger than Djelic's, so you know. What's this about? The budget must show all public revenues belonging to the Republic and all public expenditure where there is a commitment from the Republic. Now look here, Table A, Table B, Table G, and then Junior says, if it's some liabilities based on foreign loans, it's going to go below the line, although it is public expenditure, but it goes below the line and it doesn't burden the budget, but it does. Then explain to me why you did not invest in the total public revenues revenue from the original activities of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. You have shown it as a special item in Article 7, so if you take what public revenues are based on tax and non-tax revenue, which is 429 billion and if you take these 59 billion incomes from the authorities of direct users, then we get that the total amount of the budgetary spending of the Republic of Serbia... (President: I'm sorry, I accidentally rang. )......................................................................................................... It's 489 billion dinars. You didn't want to, you said that the grandmothers and frogs couldn't get together. Public revenues and public expenditures must be shown by structure. You tell us the story, the primary surplus, so as you say here, some categories that exist only in the theory where scientists deal with comparatively looking at budget spending. What we need most, as MPs, is a consolidated public spending balance, where is he? Let's see what is the participation of public spending, which is the participation of budget funds in the gross social product. Is 55, 65, 73, how much participation, to see what the perspective is. No, that doesn't show. You don't want to show it. Then you give the balance of our debt, 808 billion dinars, so you distinguish it. Something that's really amazing, you say, this year's going to make extra income over expenditure. Let's see how that extra income is going to be used. That's what you said in Article 2(2). It says, the budget surplus set out in Article 1 will be used to cover expenditure based on loans and the purchase of financial assets of 5.5 billion. Furthermore, the payment of the capital of 23 and almost 23.5 billion. That's where you make your division, 22 billion dollars for your homework, and something's going abroad. The 22 billion is the responsibility of the Republic to ensure the liquidity of the budget and to ensure that the budget can work. Then where's the surplus? Aren't these public expenditures? Why do you show surplus when you have an obligation? You say further, current expenditure or not current expenditure, we don't care, it's a government obligation. In the end, you say, the rest of the budget surplus, and of course you've singled out three billion and as it's going to be transferred, and that's essentially a real surplus. That's that extra income you're planning at the end of the year, but show this second one, show it on the revenue side, and show it on the flat side. Is it possible that 27 billion expected revenues based on privatisation are not public revenue. What's that? It's a public income. Why are you dragging us with A, B, V, G and whether there will be a final financial result, etc. Give it to the professors of economics and let them deal with it. You're getting into a story with foreign partners of 23 billion dinars of somebody's debt. And what about our claim based on the damages? Why didn't you take it into your story? Even $33.5 billion is the demand of this country verified, and among other things Mr. Markovic led a group that verified it. Why don't you start negotiations on the subject? As far as I know, there's no such thing as repulsion and disgust from abroad. They're willing to talk, as long as we don't call them bombing anymore. You're avoiding the subject here. Why are you avoiding the subject? You have an obligation to negotiate. You have the obligation to defend our claims. No, you don't want to. You say the privatisation fund, the transition fund, where is that? What law does this fund or these funds have to do with it? In a moment they sit there in government, design something contrary to Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The budget carries out the obligations. So, public expenditures are made only by law, by the law of the prescribed obligation. You're making up some expenses here, you're making up some public expenditures that can't exist. Let's compare the 2000 budget and the budget this revised 2005. In 2000, if all sub-accounts are taken, it's at 51 billion. How much is this one of yours? Back off the army, 50 or something, back off these 480, as I just told you, and you'll get over 400 billion. Compare 50 to 400, you'll get six to seven times the load. What's the use? It's not good that you formed agencies, so you pay off your workers and your members, etc. What's the real benefit? Six to seven times you've increased the load. How much inflation from 2001 to today? Can it cover this nominal growth, or is it about real hand-drawing into the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Let's talk about it a little bit. You say you serve your duties properly. That's not true at all. You're increasing unsettled obligations. The unsettled obligations of the Republic to the citizens, to the economy and to others. It's hard to talk here, because if I read some of the attitudes you've made, they're contradictory in the very sentence. This is all a layman can write. It says - inflation control will contribute and strictly control the mass of wages in the state administration and the public sector, which will allow them to increase only in line with the growth of labour productivity. Whose productivity does it work? Administrations or businesses? Labour productivity has stagnation. There's no raise in salary. How do you mean inflation to control it this way? Not to read any further. On the other hand, there is a need to further reduce public spending, in order to further improve Serbia's foreign trade business. What difference does that make? The external trade operations of the Republic of Serbia depend on businesses, their ability to be present on the foreign market, to export and collect their claims. What does it have to do with what you're talking about here? It doesn't matter. Not to go any further on these items of yours, etc. What might be most important for this operation to succeed and the patient to survive until the next election, you've figured out a way to build the Treasury Administration. That's where you unite the Public Payments Authority and the Treasury, and you even give the basics of how the vaults are supposed to open local administrations. That way you have full insight into all the accounts and all the sub-accounts, and I doubt you'll be working here with secret accounts without any control. And this is about the audit and this criminal policy for whoever's in charge of the state, etc. And what was heard from the government's representative this morning when he was talking about private borrowing, which is getting pretty uncontrollable, I have to remind you that the SRS in your Bill on Public Debt, which we said had the wrong name, that there should be a law on the borrowing procedure, etc., then we showed you that this law should regulate government borrowing and private borrowing. Then we warned you that there should be a basis for something called a law on credit relations with abroad. If we knew in the beginning how long the state could be in debt, as long as economic operators could be in debt, so as not to move capital, so that what happened wouldn't happen, here, Budapest. That's where the city's real estate prices fell. For what? People move out because abnormal utility costs. The foreign company took the water, people moved, someone's giving the market. Carefully, this uncontrollable task may result in a stranger not being able to collect his claim from a commercial entity and then enter into the long-term which is visible, which is an invisible lease of immobility and other goods, and there, in its passive position, has allowed someone to win over our entire market both in terms of consumption and in terms of production. You didn't listen to us. You said no, the Public Debt Act. With the budget system law and these changes, you have at least six members who are contradictory of the Public Debt Act, which was passed five days ago. It's mutually exclusive. What law should be applied, this story about the surplus, we will try to prove it to you about the debate in particular, from member to member to point out to you. It is our fault that we cannot consider other sectors, but only these budgetary and accounting matters. If there were ministers, then we could also break down each item and point out what is a failure in that item, where the nominal cash amount of real work, which should come from the ministry, is missed. We can't talk about it now, because there's no government, there's no ministers, there's no budget problem here as a problem for the final budget plan. It's devaluation before all this. So, the surplus as presented to us doesn't exist, nor can it exist. Here you can show up at the end of the year extra income over expenditure. Excess revenue over expenditure is transferred for the next financial year. What you've calculated now, you're practically saving yourself, or you're running to someone on the side, not taking our interests into account. The rule is when half a year it is seen that incomes are far higher than what is a commitment, then it goes in a different sense to fixing and balancing the left and right sides. It goes to tax cuts, to some other reliefs, to reduce revenues, to balance with expenditures. Here no, here goes the other way around. This is where you go to raise funds fictitiously, and you don't really settle your obligations. No obligations have been met.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-18-0.u17851	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to a) Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees for 2005, b) Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Fund for Pensions and Disability Insurance of Farmers for 2005, v) Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2005, g) Decision amending the Republic of Serbia's financial plan for health insurance for 2005, d) Decision amending the National Employment Service for 2005, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia's daily). At the same time, since we have completed a principled search in a united debate, I warn the new Rules of Procedure must take 24 hours to discuss in particular. So an exception can be made when it comes to the budget, but from all the exposures we've heard today, this is too important, and to make such an exception. So, tomorrow morning, at 10.00 a.m., we continue a single review of the motion for decisions on the appointment, selection and resolution of judicial functions, then a single review of the amendment to the Committee's members, and amendments to these two laws at the end of 24 hours, so on Wednesday at 10.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all a good day. We continue the work of the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 103 national MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Marko Djurisic and Velimir Stanojevic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Stopping duty, SECURING AND CHOICE OF COURT FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have adopted the following proposals for decisions: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-1492/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 2. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Batocina, number 118-1494/05, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of Deputy Prosecutor General, number 118-1493/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1040/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-1253/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-1322/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 7. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-1476/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 8. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1691/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 9. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, number 119-1104/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 10. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1254/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 11. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1394/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, with correction, number 119-1477/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1690/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 14. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-1610/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 15. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of courts, number 119-1609/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 16. Proposal for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, issue 119-1396/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 17. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, number 119-1395/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 18. Proposal for a decision on the election of a Public Prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, No. 119-1718/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. You also received notice from the High Council of Justice: - to withdraw the motion for a decision on the election of judges and president of courts No 119-1609/05 - to withdraw a proposal for the election of Zoran Markovic as judge of the District Court in Zajecar. In addition, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions on the selection of judicial officers. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Išpanović Istvan singled out his opinion when considering the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the single debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement-New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 160(2). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motions for decisions. Does the proposaler, Jovan Palalic, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. Vida Petrovic-Skero, president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and chairman of the High Council of Justice in the narrow system? No, I don't. Thank you. Slobodan Jankovic, a member of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor and chair of the High Council of Justice in the narrow system? No, I don't. Thank you. Milan Bozilovic, public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj and member of the High Council of Justice in the narrow system? No, I don't. Thank you. Does the People's MP Ispanović Istvan want to speak, who has issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Are you, Mr. Krassic, an authorised representative? So, here you go. The first word is Mr Krasic, then Mr Obradovic and Marko Krstin. The mandated representatives for this item of the agenda are: Mr Krasic, confirms to us Mr Nikolic that he is an authorised representative, and in writing we have already received for the Democratic Party Miodrag Djidić, and for G17 plus Marko Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Excuse me, Mr Krasic, one very important announcement for everyone, at 10:30 is the session of the Legislative Committee, which should consider all objections and amendments to budget rebalances. Please, at 10:30, a little joke. A huge apology once again, Mr. Krassic.
