ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u20997	Thank you. Mr. Stimac, I see you're fine and I'm glad about it, I just don't know if that means that the pressure of Mr. Labus on your work is a little lower or you've adapted to his mode of operation, but it's important that you're okay. We have here a report on the work of the Securities Commission, with an annual account for 2004 and a report from the authorised auditor. We got this material on May 4, 2005. Believe me, I've barely been able to figure out what this is about today, because we've had a report from the Securities Commission for 2003, some plan, mostly four or five materials since 2003 until May this year came to Parliament clubs and MPs. Of course, the logical question that is being asked is why it took so long for this material to come to the agenda and for us to discuss the Commission's report on values for 2004 at the end of 2005. Most likely, and this is the only logical conclusion, it was deliberately and consciously left aside so that the MPs, in order for the Serbian public to forget some of the issues in which the Securities Commission, even beyond its will, was involved. I will only remind the public of Serbia, especially as often in the media, representatives of one of the ruling coalition's parties like to say that the Survey Committee, which discussed the "Knjiz Milos" affair and I was a member of that committee, concluded that there was no illegality in the work of the Securities Commission, that there was no illegality in the conduct of state authorities, above all, that there were no problems in the work, or in taking action "Knjiz Milos". Of course, none of that is true. It is true that the polling committee did this work, that they were heard, or taken statements from certain people. There were even more proposals to be heard in the context of this job, however, some majority opinion and all persons who, in some way, according to the majority of the survey board, had anything to do with "Knjiz Milos" and taking action, heard before the survey board. My fellow MPs, you know very well that you have never received a report from this committee of inquiry. Of course, that means that the survey board disagreed on the conclusions. There was one proposal, with some conclusions prepared for the polling committee, where it was about what was trying to impose on the public, which was that there were no influences and illegal actions by high-ranking officials of the government of Serbia and the representatives of the government and that, it turned out to be a fundamental problem, if there were any problems, in the fact that they were not good laws and that it was not properly covered this area. Such a report has never been adopted by the polling committee. I made significant remarks on that report. They were also given by counterpart Milan Markovic of the DS, who was due to deliver the report with those remarks, or as an isolated opinion. So that report was never adopted. Until the report on the Survey Committee is adopted and discussed here in this House and subsequently adopted in whatever form, no one has the right to say and argues that the representatives of the authorities have tried to influence this job in "Knjiz Milos". What was actually going on? What did the Survey Committee determine, what role of the Securities Commission was in this business, as I would say, to get out of this business without consequences? It is also true that Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus had serious intentions with the representatives of Danone. Remember, to remind the public of Serbia, that was the time when Danone's representative came to the house for an official conversation with Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus and then, by his co- thinkers, hit the trees and stones on the SRS, with comments that we from the SRS know that Labus wasn't in the government, but that he was in his house, so there were rude comments about whether we were doing it climbing trees and watching who was coming to the house. Of course, it doesn't matter how we got there, and it doesn't matter if we're even climbing trees, so let's see it, it's important that it's undeniable and that Miroljub Labus admitted that he was in his house talking to the representatives, the vice president of Danon, with the obvious intention of "Danon" being the one to take over the majority actions of "Prince Milosha". Interestingly, this was happening to me on October 7th, and that Labus, October 5, 6 and 8, was in the government, only his leg hurt on October 7th. When Danon with his offer, as it was, came out, when the government of Divac was mixed there, on the day and on the weekend when the actions were to be taken, you remember the activities of Predrag Danilovic, his offers to small shareholders, like out of a small pocket to take out some millions, to give people, with an explanation that he was more bored with the story of taking over the actions of "Knjiz Miloš", so that he would cover the troubles, probably the government of Serbia, and the Securities Commission, and the small shareholders, of course not than the Government of Divac, who had the intention to "Dan" and Labus "below the grain" to get to that majority package. The Charter Committee made one decision, so as Mr. Stimac said, when he spoke to the polling committee -- he heard from Mr. Labus, so when I insisted on saying what kind of conversation it was, did Miroljub Labus talk to Mr. Stimec as the head of his party or talked to the Deputy Prime Minister with the President of the Independent Body -- Mr. Stimac was trying to explain it and finally, the man obviously didn't want to lie, so he said -- you know, it wasn't a conversation at all, it was shouting and cursing by Labus. It's left in the stenogram, in case someone tries to deny what I just said. I was happy to find that Mr. Stimac, but frankly, healthy because after that man ended up in the hospital, because of course he couldn't possibly, as a man and as someone who wanted to work by law, to please his party boss, and on the other hand, he felt uncomfortable that he had to cancel party obedience, and the man was neither guilty nor obliged to end up in hospital, in pre-infarct state. The theme is Miroljub Labus, for your information, colleague. If you can't listen, I'm sorry, but Serbian citizens have something to hear. I don't know if that bell, Mr. President, refers to me, and you could have been ringing before that and a colleague who's distracting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u20998	Mrs. Radeta, the bell is a warning not to disturb the speaker, but also to warn the speaker not to discuss with the MPs, but to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u20999	This has to be done separately, you can't remind a colleague of me in the same way. So, in the Commission's work on values related to this affair, which, like all the affairs of the ruling coalition, is somehow being thrown "under the carpet", alongside this Commission, alongside Miroljub Labus, the Agency for Privatisation took part, the entire government took part. The government of the Republic of Serbia has done something that has been unremembered and unrecorded in the history of any government in modern democracies. The government organised a night-long phantom session and, imagine, changed the decision of an independent Securities Commission. Do you know how the government did it? The government invited the state prosecutor to a cabinet meeting so that when they showed up on TV at one hour, they would show everyone - but not against the government's decision, there's a state prosecutor sitting here, then in the V.D. a condition, probably with a firm promise, if that job is done as requested, that it will no longer be in V.D. It's a condition, and today it's not. So, all these high-ranking state officials have tried, but I hope that one session will be dedicated to this report and that we will discuss further details and that we will get to know you, you and the public of Serbia with statements by individual members of the Government and the Charter Commission, that Serbia's citizens will get to know in detail everything that's been going on, that is, what has been tried to do in taking action, "Knjiz Miloša". We in the SRS have reason to really be proud of this part of the job, because before on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation, we have raised a great "dust" about it and informed the public about all these details and, of course, we have stopped this job from being illegal and to the harm of the state and the harm of small shareholders. It can be heard in public from time to time that this affair really didn't get its epilogue and that's true. It is said that the state has been damaged by some large billions in this takeover. I must say that the information we received from the President of the Securities Commission is of value, and I believe that even today, if necessary, to say, even from Vice President Labus and the Director of the Privatisation Agency, everyone has claimed and demonstrated mathematically that the state has not suffered any harm in this business and that small shareholders have not suffered any damage. I'm saying this because I was surprised on several occasions, some of my colleagues used to say the opposite of this in public appearances. As for a concrete report, which we have ahead of us, it's a common material and it should take a long time to talk about it. There are also concrete figures and concrete costs, acquisitions of funds, etc. I'll leave that to my colleagues who have looked at it a little bit more closely than I have. My nemesis was just to introduce the citizens of Serbia to the way this parliament works, with this not being the only survey committee report. You also remember that slightly forgotten survey board led by Aleksandar Vukic. So we in the National Assembly are assessing when a topic has come to this point that it should be discussed on the survey board, so that the survey committee with certain conclusions appears before the National Assembly, that the National Assembly discusses such topics. But unfortunately, the work of the survey committees has been completely dissipated, because the president of parliament and the assembly majority do not finish that part of the work that consists of the survey committee's report - this or any one, because here's how many survey committees have been working, and I think that in the last year at least four survey committees have been working, one still working, but people have not yet finished – leads to the final. So, all this is done, done, got some data, got some conclusions. Of course, the problem is on the polling committee itself, to come up with common conclusions before parliament, because it is simply not possible to find a common language, because the topics dealt with on the survey committee are mainly related to the representatives of the authorities and MPs working on survey committees who do not accept the actual fact that the survey committee comes to. But there's a cure for that, too. It is said well: the Committee of Auditors has generally accepted this as a conclusion, the opinion has been drawn up by the MPs and that one. Then we all here tell our fellow Members and the public of Serbia, and then some final conclusion is adopted in this House. It is for the Rules of Procedure alone, but it has not yet seen the light of day in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21000	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Stimac, the fact that Mr. Stimac did not want to submit an opening statement about this item of the agenda today. We've received this material multiple times, it's been put on the agenda of the National Assembly, it's been dropped, probably for reasons that certain things that my esteemed colleague, Veronica Radeta, has spoken of have been put aside. That is why the report has not been adopted so far. We of the SRS consider, regardless of what is now the adoption of this report by the Securities Commission, so today, on 1 November 2005, even though it relates to the operations of this Commission for 2004, and the law also provides for this report to be submitted by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. It affects us to actively engage in this report and to talk about it because we are very highly aware of the importance of the Commission for Securities of Values. We see this Securities Commission as an organ that has a control function, as well as an authority that should have the task of affirming the financial market and creating conditions for better investment and business in the state of Serbia. This report can be said to be detailed and extensive, when you look at the number of sides on which it was done, on the one hand. On the other hand, we can conclude that this report has certain shortcomings, or did not say anything about perhaps the most important things, such as investor protection, because it was not mentioned in this report at all. It is likely that the will of foreign investors falls, as well as those of people who are in Serbia, due to the overall ambience in Serbia's economy, the interest in investing in the economy is falling, and it is certain that during the period for which this report is submitted -- for 2004, there were interested people in investment. But because of the uncertainty in which the economy of Serbia operates, because of the situation that very often, due to the decline of the social product, imposes a commitment of 50%, it is unsustainable for the economic flows in the state of Serbia and therefore the economic activity is constantly falling. I find it very interesting in this report that the Commission also proposes to include the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, when making the Constitution, the Commission, as an independent and independent body now, as a constitutional category, so that, in addition to the five institutions that the Constitution so far treats, the Commission for Securities of Value. A logical question is immediately raised - why do those who submit this report suggest that the Securities Commission be a constitutional category? Personally, I think, for reasons to reduce the impact on the Securities Commission, by the Ministry of Finance and the only Deputy Prime Minister, or as much as possible, to a minimum, by making this commission a body that is also foreseen by the Constitution. He says: "The Securities Commission is a monitoring body in the paper market of the Republic of Serbia, as an independent organisation, which is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it is responsible. The Securities Commission has five members, including the president, elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of five years. ( That is what is now foreseen. ) The work of the Commission shall be managed by the President. The Commission for Securities of Value shall be governed by law." In this report, when I said earlier that it was detailed on the one hand, and on the other hand that it had not processed certain categories and its business, it was very detailed here and might be thought sometimes, when reading this report, to read some legislative proposals or rules, rules, regulations that regulate the work of this Securities Commission. In addition to being sufficiently processed, nothing has actually been said about investor protection, it is not said what are the effects of the Commission's work on securities of value. It says here how many solutions have been made in organising brokerage houses, how much is the ban, but no telling what are the effects, what measures have been taken. The decisions taken by the Securities Commission are final, but the administrative dispute may be initiated over these decisions. We don't have a detailed report on how and in what way this securities commission has done business. When we sum up the results, and the president of the National Assembly, as far as we've passed the law, how many decisions, how many other reports we've adopted, of course a decision will be made on the adoption of a report on the work of the Securities Commission, and we will say that we have made so many decisions. However, it is important for the citizens of Serbia and for all of us as their representatives to create conditions and an environment for better work. That's what we in the SRS are always talking about, but those who support the government and who represent the congregation's majority seem to be only proud of the number of laws that have been passed and adopted, even if they are laws with one or two members. For us, that's not the point. The point is to create better working conditions. However, if the government in its composition has high-ranking officials who want to divide Serbia into good and bad, right and I don't know which other, surely they can't make any contribution to improving life in Serbia. They can only drag Serbia back, although it is always in their heads and their thoughts are aimed at one floscule, such as EU accession. Yes, we want to, but we want to create better conditions for the lives of Serbian citizens. That will be possible when we come to power. It seems to me that the moment is near, because 40% of citizens behind the SRS policy cannot possibly be minority Serbia, as someone likes to say, because they are citizens of Serbia and we do not share them at all. I hope that Mr. Stimac will later, when "provoked" questions of SRS MPs and the dilemmas they have in relation to this report, still come out and answer some of the questions and give us some projections related to the work of the Securities Commission in the future period and, of course, discover some more pressures and some difficulties that this commission has in its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21002	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and let the People's Messenger Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21003	Dear Members of Parliament, the Securities Commission is a national regulatory body established to achieve and improve the domestic financial market, as well as controls, which is still missing in this report. The Commission shall be an independent legal person who performs the tasks and shall be responsible for his business to the Republic of Slovenia. So she is an independent institution, but her responsibility has been precisely determined by the Assembly, as the legislator. Matters related to securities of value are not regulated by the Constitution, and that may be one handicap, because this is a very important matter, I can say that because I was a member of the Federal Commission of Values and I know what this is about, I know the competences of this very high institution. Its jurisdiction is established by the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and other Financial Instruments. I note that the Commission's decisions are made in the first degree and they are final, and the Commission is dealing with administrative matters, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and it is its independence. These decisions may also be subject to administrative dispute before the court and, at the same time, by the commission as an independent body, its legal right, in order to protect investors, may be initiated by the competent court if it finds that the rights of the investor are violated, of course, relating to securities of value and to the financial market. Mr. Stimac, with your utmost respect, I'd like to ask a certain number of questions. Let's say that in 2004, there was a decline in the turnover of securities, both by volume and by number of transactions. Also, why traffic dropped on the Belgrade Stock Exchange more than twice. This Commission's argument that this came primarily because it was not possible to make trade in January because of the transfer of ownership data to the Central Register, it cannot be accepted. We Serbian radicals believe that this is not the reason, but is the reason for mistrust, and the lack of confidence, and the number of companies, or companies, that are coming out and are not interested in going out to trade on the market. The Belgrade Stock Exchange is not an organised capital market, unfortunately, which should be. In the previous, or 2004, I apologize, her trade was about trading old foreign currency bonds, which is very little action. Mr. Stimac, the commission has failed to carry out its basic task, which is that she has not sanctioned law enforcement. Of course, there may be problems because of the indetermination of the law, but the law also gave in my time to sanction law enforcement. So, truth be told, you said it was out of your jurisdiction, but I won't list everything, that you've committed, among other things, and control of 73 brokerage companies, control of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, but you can't see from that report what has been done and whether there have been any irregularities, and if there has been, we're interested in the outcome of these reports, I suppose, for the offences, for the crimes or perhaps for the crimes. Also, we do not have in the report that the Commission has brought a dispute before the court to protect investors and has at all found that one investor has been violated by law, which is the legal obligation of the Commission to initiate a dispute before the court, if there has been a breach of investor rights and if this concerns securities of value, or financial market. There is no report on the extent to which administrative disputes and possible outcomes of these disputes have been brought against the final decisions of the Commission, since the outcome of these disputes depends on the legality, i.e. the correct conduct, i.e. the decision-making of the Commission on securities of value. In your report, in the end, you delivered that you participated in many international seminars and projects, but unfortunately you did not specify how much it cost. I know that all travel, seminars, conferences and projects cost the country's taxpayers, and the effects of these trips and seminars, I think, are negligible and insignificant, given the situation in which our country is located. The fact that you stated in the report that the Securities Commission has achieved revenue beyond expenditure, I do not think this is the result of the savings and work of the Commission, but of an unrealistic financial plan. That's my opinion. Furthermore, the report states that since 2005 the Commission will adopt a new regulation on internal job and task systems and expand, i.e. to introduce new jobs, to employ new people, and that is not only bad at all, when these people are employed in businesses, when the economy is working, but not using existing resources, it can only be interpreted as dragging their hands into the pockets of our taxpayers, and the pockets are, you know, empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21004	People's MP Momir Markovic is not there, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is finally to be found before the debate one such report from the Securities Commission. In my opinion, this debate is quite late, so many things have already changed in the market of securities of value, that in this assembly in general it is becoming immaterial to discuss this report that has now been filed. Mr President of the Securities Commission should carry out the Assembly on some new phenomena that are happening on the Securities Market. These are phenomena where the Government of the Republic of Serbia is directly involved, because according to the law which established this Securities Committee, it corresponds only to the Assembly and is defined as an independent body, for the sake of control, insight, etc. The fact is that by entering privatisation, which began in 2001 and 2002 respectively, these securities of value also appeared in a larger scale. Social capital was privatised, and by two basics: one part, at 70%, which was the subject of sales, therefore, majority capital, consortium or one individual, some natural person, and another person, and the other part, 30% of the value of the company, or 30% of the shares of the workers who worked in the company. The honor of exceptions, but most manipulated with those 30%, or the desire of the majority owner to have all 100%, and if he can't have 100%, then simply reduce that role of small shareholders, i.e. workers in some company, legal person, etc. The desire of majority owners took place in two ways. One was the recapitalisation of the company and it would be no harm to enter fresh capital through the recapitalisation of the company, which would allow for more productivity of the company. However, this was done at a small door, by not responding through the recapitalisation of current maintenance as an investment, you have even that because the Securities Commission has not responded, the Privatisation Agency has also not responded until today. It happens that one company, which objectively costs 30 or 40 million dinars, is not to talk in euro, through simple painting simply devalues the value of small stockholders' actions. Another way was when the dividend was distributed, where dividends were made by the majority owner, he denied profits in favour of increasing the management rights of the company, i.e. increasing the value of his actions. The third type of devaluement of small shareholders' management rights was that a certain amount of securities of value was simply broadcast, not because the company would have a new capital, i.e. to have more owners, but solely for the purpose of revulsing small shareholders' management rights again. In principle, in 2004, there was, in fact, no real sense in the words of the paper market of value, but exclusively financial manipulation of certain financial lobbies. That all this is so seen when the privatisation of "Knjiza Miloša" was made, where the direct government of the Republic of Serbia was involved in privatisation. The job of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to monitor law enforcement and to enforce laws on its own, not to amend laws, is to be changed by the Serbian Parliament. If we have established one rule once and under these rules is based on some practice, then the question is, what exactly is wanted. Whether privatising "Knjiza Miloša" was intended to bring in the real owner, or a person who would really pay what it costs, invested in production, protected workers working in the company, or simply had the desire to damage the state, because the income from privatisation goes into the budget, and that someone else was introduced into a high-profit company, which so far existed as a social enterprise. That all of this has a basis, Mr. Stimac, is seen in the final move of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance's move to sell securities of value or action, whatever you want, of the National Savings Bank. During the sale of these securities of value, two were made, to say two serious violations of the law and of the rules applicable on the market of securities of value. The state was reportedly the majority owner of the National Savings Bank. It's at the time of Bozidar Djelic or whoever the National Savings Reserve is privatized. Let's not talk about who was the promoter, or maybe we should say that the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia was behind it after all. The moment he was governor and Bozidar Djelic was finance minister, with their consent, the National Savings Bank became majority owned by private capital. That's the first, let me say, step where the state is damaged. The second step was now recently, when the majority owner of the National Savings Bank suddenly changed. It's still about private capital. I don't want to get into how much the owner of that capital of the state is, but the fact is, someone showed up who wanted to buy the National Savings Bank. What move is the Government of the Republic of Serbia making? If there is such information, it is absolutely certain that, if it too decides to sell its shares, the value of the shares on the market will be lower, because the new owner is not obliged to negotiate so much and is being blackmailed by the current owner, the majority owner of the National Savings Bank. Pure law of supply and demand. If there's more stock in the market, it's perfectly normal, especially when it comes to banks, so that their price is lower. Who's in harm's way? In the first place, there is a state, which now has some minority stake in the ownership of the National Savings Bank and which could have reached certain financial resources, i.e. profits, which is certainly much larger than dividends that will belong to it with the work of this bank, because it is not a majority owner, it cannot affect the distribution of dividends, it cannot affect the investment of that bank, etc. On the other hand, who benefited most from all this? The most beneficial was the former majority owner of the National Savings Bank. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allowed them to buy a right for five or sixm euros, and to sell the same right for 92-93m euros, just because it has not broadcast its actions. You want us to say what kind of people they are? Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. They got rich selling the National Savings Bank. Who made it possible for them? Who's in charge of stocking in banks where's the state? The finance minister didn't broadcast any shares, he didn't decide to sell them. He increased the price of shares held by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic in one artificial way. In this way, they, you might say, have earned another hundred million euros. In essence, what is it that defines the state in which it was owned by the National Savings Bank? It defines in that part that, by abolishing payment traffic, which was run by the then National Bank of Yugoslavia and was the carrier, the traffic was transferred to business banks. By passing payment traffic to business banks, a fantastic infrastructure has been donated to the National Savings Bank. In each municipality, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, then, had its own exposures through which it carried out payment traffic. It had a complete infrastructure, it started from a location, which is also interesting, it's always close to the city center, if not in extra city areas. She had a complete computer information system, which was given for small money to the National Savings, i.e. Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. They made money on the infrastructure, and then they made money on the securities market, and this commission hasn't called at all on that point. If you are indeed an independent body, which reports to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then you should have called, and I do not believe that any minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia should simply easily attack the committee that submits the report to the National Assembly, especially if the National Assembly adopts it. The way you've solved it, I'm sorry that you're personally involved, but with who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21006	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must appeal to the President of the Securities Commission, who did not find fit to explain a little before the debate of the MPs this report, which we received half a year ago, and perhaps more. On the occasion of this report, which is quite extensive, I will look only at a few general things, I will not be discussing the specific figures given in the report, but I would only like to make a few general remarks that arise from this report. First, the objection is more addressed to the National Assembly, or to the President of the Assembly, than to the Commission itself. The report itself shows that there is no appropriate co-operation or coordination, i.e. the National Assembly does not fulfil the legal obligations it has to the Commission. It seems to me that somehow the Commission, although legally defined as an independent body, is left to itself, that the Assembly is not doing its part of the Commission's work. That's exactly what this agenda item is talking about, which arrived only in November, and should have been on the agenda by 30 April. We are here today considering the Commission's 2004 work report, which should be on the agenda by 30 April, as stated in the Law and as the Commission has indicated. So, the annual account, the Commission's business report, should have been considered six or more months ago. I don't know why the National Assembly didn't find it appropriate to put it on the agenda, and I also don't know what the Commission's working on this year if the plan wasn't adopted for this year, as it wasn't adopted for 2004, allegedly because of the election problem, i.e. the failure of the then government and the National Assembly that was disbanded. All these cannot be reasons why the National Assembly does not fulfil its obligations and should comply with the legal standards set out in the Securities Market Act in the coming period. I will refer to a part of the report that discusses the macroeconomic situation in Serbia in 2004, although it may have been declassified to talk about it, nothing has changed significantly in this year either. It says here that certain positive trends in the economy have been achieved, and based on this report, a wonderful picture can be obtained of how we have a flower economy, how productivity has grown, how gross social product has grown, and what is mentioned is successful in industrial production, in agriculture, in construction and in other branches of the economy. However, the situation is slightly different. Only agriculture in the past year had a certain growth, and as a consequence of not some measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia but primarily suitable weather and meteorological conditions, the year was suitable for the development of all agricultural cultures and we had some increases in production. Otherwise, the general economic situation in Serbia last year is extremely difficult. What's most difficult is what we talked about a few days ago, it's an external trade exchange. Namely, this report also says, and this applies to last year, the trend is the same in this year, there has been no change, the volume of foreign trade or export coverage is extremely low and unfortunately the lowest in Serbia's recent history. We, both in the past and in this year, have an export coverage of around 30%. These are the results that are weaker than when we were under sanctions, when we were doing business under very difficult circumstances, when the economy had to resort to various ways to achieve a trade in goods with abroad. Unfortunately, we've had in one period since this so-called. The democratic opposition came to power during a period of even a deficit in the exchange of agricultural products. We had smaller exports of agricultural products than imports, which is disastrous for Serbia, because this has never happened in our history. Of course, the result of such an economic situation in Serbia is the decline in traffic in the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 2004 compared to the previous year, which is expressed here in figures of absolute value, and globally it is a decline of more than twice. It also states in this report and is a general observation that there is a problem with legislation in this area. These problems are also in the very Law on the Market of Securities of Values, but also in other regulations in this area. In fact, many of the laws recently passed in the Serbian Parliament, which are related to this economic sphere, are literally translated and copied from the European Union legislation, with less or more success. As such, many of them are not completely clear, are not defined, and are causing many problems in practice. That's what this report clearly shows. So, there are many problems in this Securities Market Act, but I would say in other laws, and I mean primarily the Privatisation Act, which was changed a while ago, but unfortunately we still have a lot of problems privatising what has not yet been privatised in Serbia, but a lot of problems in those companies that are privatised. In fact, the impression is that this government, as the previous government, has the goal of dissipating all this in Serbia no matter what the consequences, and that no one here is concerned, no one is interested. Representatives of the government announced during a pre-election campaign that many privatisations in Serbia, which were conducted under the existing law in the previous period, would be reviewed, that their revision would take place. But it didn't turn out to be anything. Today, we have major problems in businesses that are privatised under this existing law. The privatisation agency is essentially quite passive and it is my general assessment regarding the Agency, that it behaves extremely passively when it comes to the demands of workers who have lost their jobs in companies that are privatised, which are essentially not working or working. The Agency is satisfied with some formal and fictitious contracts that are allegedly initiating production, and in essence there is no production, and workers are out of work. It also doesn't make sense, and it's not clear how the new owner of the company, who bought 50% of the stock, simply becomes an absolute master, allows himself to fire employees who are small shareholders. He literally fires his partners, those who share ownership of the company with him. These are all the problems that we have in existing legislation and which, of course, make business in Serbia very difficult, but as a result of all this is the most difficult position of employees, or rather unemployed, because this report mentions that currently in Serbia we have about 30% of the unemployed of working capacity, which is probably the highest rate in Europe, and we are recordrs in this. In the end, the report speaks of the Commission's financing under some temporary decisions in three periods last year, which is very bad. The assembly has to do its part of the job. This is an observation to the congregation, that is, those who form the agenda of congregation meetings. However, what is particularly indicative of me here is that the Commission's revenue of 16 million in last year and expenditures of 11.600,000 are mentioned. It means that the Commission has achieved an surplus of five million by operating, and it is likely to be paid into the budget, as it stands here, which will be confirmed by the President of the Commission. The Commission currently has 34 employees, and it says here that in 2005, which is on the loose, the number will be increased by new young and professional staff, and of course it is not a big problem. The problem is that the economy is not working properly and that this commission should function in the same economy. Finally, I would just like to refer to the privatisation of the company "Knjiz Milos", i.e. the problems that were in that privatisation, which one of my predecessors referred to. I watched a show on TV "Politics", where Mr. Vucelic, who was chairman of the Survey Committee, spoke about the work of the Survey Committee and said that the committee had made no decision or conclusion. So, he ran certain checks, controls, hearings, interrogations, and, in the end, all that remained a dead letter on paper, so no decision whatsoever. Apparently, he concluded that it was necessary to wait for Mr. Divac to hire some foreign organisation to review all this and then the Committee to make a final decision. Of course, I do not agree with that, and the SRS parliamentary group has major objections to the work of these committees, not on their work, but on the president of the Assembly who would have to put on the agenda the reports of these survey committees. Namely, if the Serbian Parliament makes a decision on the formation of a survey board, if that committee spends some time researching all relevant data and facts related to a particular topic, and note, we have also had a survey on electricity, then a survey committee related to the sale of "Knjiza Miloša" and some other survey committees. None of these committees delivered, nor did we get their conclusions, and they did not arrive on the congregation agenda. As a Assembly, we had to consider the survey committee reports and take their views according to their conclusions. Unfortunately, I think the President of the Assembly is in violation of the Rules of Procedure by not putting these conclusions on the agenda. In some cases, we have a one - year delay and perhaps more than a year delay, as the 2003 report has not been found on the agenda. The Commission's 2004 paper report is more than half a year late. The 2004 plan was not adopted. It's a 2005 plan with a delay. Here, we still have about 30 days to adopt the plan for next year. We hope it will be done in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21008	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21009	Although the topic - Report on the work of the Securities Commission, the annual account for 2004 and the report of the authorised auditor, I would not like to repeat the findings of my predecessors from the SRS, but I could really commend the Commission, the official policy path that was drawn in the Republic of Serbia was closely followed. Smile, but I must commend you, for you have truly followed that path consistently. Where does that road lead? That's what voters will think about. This report, which should show us only the formal independence of the Commission, and essentially the dependence that, in some ways, conceals, is professionally done, meets these formal criteria. Of course, there have been some affairs, the public is familiar, they are not resolved, such as the blockage of blood vessels in the legs. Probably this report of yours could go to the UBPOK archives sooner. (Milko Stimac, from the scene: he's already gone.) He's already gone! But now it's important which team works there. There's plenty of material to be determined if there's any good will. Let's get back to the point. The Securities Commission is an important body, whose importance I share in several aspects – the first is that, in some ways, it creates money, helps to create money. Secondly, its more significant role in this transition period, as you like to say, is seen in one process of taking action and acquiring a ownership package over individual entities, so that it can be determined that you have completed the task. Since 2001, there has been one tendency, when it goes over those crisis headquarters, that everything that is successfully privatized, the money goes into the budget, of course. That's a success. Anything that can't be privatized, or disintegrated, or sold because, or simply closes, there's a bankruptcy waiting, then it's the fault of Joseph Broz, so let's say everyone who's been in power in some way. Since we cannot look at the Securities Committee individually without looking at the context of the existing talks of these IMF officials, because the Commission must, in some way, follow what Kostunica, Labus, Dinkic, Jelasic promises to this expert group, and in this context, your Securities Commission appears as a kind of collateral damage to the IMF policy. I would ask you to pay attention to something that has already been history, in some ways, mastered. When something history overcomes, there are no more disputes over some facts. There's a possibility that this could be viewed differently depending on the angle of observation. But the IMF has long been present on the territory and former SFRJ, and the SRJ today and Serbia-Montenegro. I'll remind you that after Tito's death, Yugoslavia entered an economic crisis. The solution to get out of the crisis was the IMF's responsibility. The IMF, when I say my loans, I mean in general credit arrangements in which, in a way, the IMF participated, always conditioned strict rules; these rules were so, in that period from 1980 to 1990, that practically the state always had to be in debt. Always! There's always been worse conditions. In one period, the debt went through the decentralisation process, and already in the next phase of the talks went towards centralisation, in that former SFRY. So there was a combination of all possible measures that were tasked with strengthening the position of the IMF and their impact on the economic situation in the former SFRY. These, due to this policy, some republics were considered endangered by the former SFRY. At the same time, the government, the Federal Executive Council, acted as some guarantee towards the IMF, and the IMF asks the Federal Executive Council for one, and the internal processes are completely opposite, the Croatian minority and Slovenia have blocked the federal government in talks with the IMF. The solution to that was shock therapy. Many in today’s government have learned quite a bit about this shock therapy. It was reflected here through the devaluation of dinars, the freezing of wages, and when it comes to product prices, it was mixed, and freezing, and liberalisation. Of course, the state had to find some answer to the missing funds for budget spending, so there was a change in the rate of tax policy, which also provoked some republics and made their requirements for independence justified, and I deliberately said it did. These economic magicians from the IMF also installed G17 plus, Jelasic, Dinkic, Labus and persuaded Kostunica, and in some ways created this securities commission of value, in which former representatives of some parties are having a fight, so the hours of peace, the hours of resignations are being submitted, and they still function nicely. Of course, it doesn't depend on the condition of the blood vessels in the legs. But they're on the threshold, on that road, to finish that job they started. To see what that road looks like. We've already passed that stock. And now we have a new stock, a new tranche of the state's break-up. We're stronger by one experience of how they destroyed our previous state. These IMF magicians, with their exposures, through their shock therapy, as their policy reflected on politics in the former SFRY: the proportion of dinars and dollars in 1985 was 270 dinars for one dollar, 1986, 379 dinars, 1987, 737 dinars, and in 1988, 2.522 dinars, to finish 1989 with 5.557 dinars. Of course, there was later devaluation and everything else, but it's interesting that all the countries that entered the IMF's programme from 1984 to 1990, if we exclude Latin America, which is long ago in the IMF programme, you'll see that this period primarily refers to what's called the Eastern Block, these countries that have freed themselves from the discipline, the countries behind the Iron Curtain. The countries invested in the Western banks' register during that period of $178 billion. This is the statement by the Director of the World Bank. He says, since the Middle Ages, when European conquerors robbed Latin America, the world has not yet experienced such an inflow of wealth in that direction as we see it today. The IMF and the entire World Bank system, which earned this on interest on loans given to countries behind the Iron Curtain during this period, has made so much revenue. I'm not going to read you about interest policies and what all conditions were, but here's some statistics, they're going to be very interesting to the audience. With us, the foreign debt situation was next -- in 1970, the state owed two billion dollars, I mean SFRY; in 1975, it came to about six billion dollars, and by 1980, the debt grew to $20 billion, not just because of that loan in 1979, which is problematic. You're smiling because you know it's problematic, because you don't know which republic took that money, because it's from the time of Bakarić and the others, but it's characteristic of the abnormal borrowing, of course with the World Bank's applause and the IMF. The repayment of these debts in early 1981 and 1982 exceeded 20% of what this country would count as some positive result of life and business and business activities in our country. What did the IMF say then? It needs to be exported as much as possible, and it's always conditioned us with exports. Of course, we were exporting raw materials, and at the same time we were importing goods of a higher degree of processing or some new technology, so we were giving a lot more, and we were taking much less. To return to 2004, it is the year that reaches this period of work of the Commission, which I praise because it was in line with the government's demands and IMF policy. You see, in 2004, all the states that were required to pay back one percent of the debt per year. I remind you, in 1981, the IMF's request to the debt states was to return about 19% each year, which of course always resulted in much more debt, a real non-payment. So, no slaves, no master. And this commission follows this committee - without us slaves there is no West Lord, we fit in. Of course, you fit into the IMF strategy and when it comes to electronic money, because the paper has become worthless, so it's easier to have electronic money, credit cards, computer transactions, which no one can control except the one who has the central computer, and of course the money is printed at will. I thank you for your support for the IMF policy. I don't comment on current events. The current events are likely to be told in a few days, and this is more detailed and statistically accurate probably in a few years, but in time I warn what follows with blind obedience and acceptance of IMF policy, that every clerk comes to that beautiful building on King Peter's street and declares his story, and our state leadership is terrified, trembling, and today the main news is that about one percent they couldn't agree on. It's not one percent. It's a strategy that's been developing for years. Let's see what it was like with industrial production. From 1979 to 1996, the growth in industrial production averaged 7.1% annually. After the first phase of macroeconomic reform on the IMF's orders, it fell to 2.8, and in the period from 1980 to 1987 it was reduced to zero, so that later it would be a negative growth rate. That's how the IMF contributed to breaking our country's orders. The creation of new states was forced on the outside, most of all by Germany. For your information, that Ustasha constitution in Croatia was brought to Bono, written by human rights experts. That's history has already confirmed and there's no need to worry, there's no need for you not to believe this, because you may not like it, but make sure it's true, because everyone has confirmed it. Then the freeze of all wages began. The budget crisis took place in 1991, and it's terrible scales, etc., that I'm not reading this analysis of how the IMF acted through its exposures once, but the exposure to the pressure system it created, and today through volunteers, so there's no more pressure because they're now volunteering for the IMF's policy. In that context, I would like to draw your attention to paying attention to our securities commission, which has contributed to the five-time negotiations going well, I guess now is the sixth tranche. I haven't read to you about the Paris Club and the London Club, which also had a significant impact on their conditions for breaking up the former SFRY in 1980 to 1991, so believe me, blood has been given the form of money with us. We don't need to argue about it, it's quite clear. We have highlighted a large number of objections to the legal position of the Securities Commission here in the adoption of the Charter Act. You remember. It's a completely different concept that is present in law today. You see, everything that's been going on with us on the securities market shows that we were right. We were right that the Commission cannot formally appear to be an independent and professional body. When it's said to some organ that it's state and still professional, then it's probably some institution, some direction. The Commission which makes some solutions, manages administrative procedures, is not an expert body. It's a state-run law enforcement body. The professional authorities apply the profession much more, but the source of the profession is not in the law but in the achievements of technology, science, professions etc. So this is about a single governing body that makes a solution as soon as its solution goes to the assessment of legality through a administrative dispute at the Supreme Court. What can our Securities Commission do today? He can't do anything, he can't do anything on his own. What Labus and Dinkic say, as the IMF says, what the NBS governor should be taking action in that direction, the Commission will committees. If new securities are to be broadcast from value, of course, there will be one selective approach, since the Commission still has to make sure that no more money is created through the value charter emissions. You know, basically, the banks didn't broadcast anything but plain paper. Banks were created that way, because they broadcast some papers that represent some value, so there are papers in traffic without any real coverage. This trail must be followed by the Securities Commission. Of course, we can't support this. We are simply warning that you accept what the IMF policy represents only in the part where it directly corresponds to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Where he doesn't answer, stand up and you'll have our support. I didn't mean to mention specific cases related to "Knjiz Milos", the bank, etc. in that part, how many dots they have with the Commission. Of course, there are parts that are affected by the affair, and it's not directly about the Securities Commission, but it's part of the issue. I didn't mean to make that point, remind the citizens, because there were so many writings, accurate and incorrect, so let them judge. This report shows that we need a different legal order from the Commission for securities of value. I see you've come to that conclusion, too. If you've come to that conclusion, it wouldn't be a bad idea to think about our proposals some time, so if we're on the same wavelength, it wouldn't be a bad idea to propose a change of existing rules concerning the Securities Commission, because you're so formalally independent, you're essentially addicted. You are dependent on both the Government and the National Bank, and indirectly on the IMF. Where are the interests of the citizens? Where is equality, where is equality, the same conditions for all? They're nowhere to be found. Go from an expert to a state authority that will take care of it. Of course, you get at the beginning of the year, if I may say so, the country's financial plan for next year and you get your coordinates where you can move, in terms of new values charters, so whether it's about capitalisation or other forms, it doesn't matter, at the very least. Furthermore, you have been given some authority when it comes to the financial market, in terms of some control. I'm not sure you have any more significant role to play. You don't have it. A much bigger role is played by this NBS, which, like our Ministry of Finance, has spread, so all areas are covered. Whatever didn't reach the Treasury must have caught the NBS. It's a good thing there's control, it's not good when she's selective and trendy. It is not good when solutions or judgments are not executed, regardless of whether someone likes or dislikes it, but the fact that 11 times a solution is annulled and that the body that made that decision, which was subsequently annulled, does not change its solution, believe me, does not comply with the law, as I am surprised why the court does not solve it in a measure if 11 times it comes to the conclusion that the NBS does not want to execute that solution. As you can see, we move a little bit in these activities within the limits of the law, much more in looking at the problems and the debacle of fate, if the blood vessels in the legs are clogged.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21010	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having carried out a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's work report on securities, with an annual account for 2004 and a report by the authorised auditor. Mr. Squishy, you wanted to say something? It's no problem, come in. We'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21011	I would not like to keep the work of this high house, but a few things have been said about this work report and the Commission's position in general. I think it should say a few sentences about the work of the Securities Commission itself. I agree, it is strange to discuss work reports for 2004. Here, today is November 1, 2005. The fact is that we're a country in transition, that we're burdened with a bunch of problems that they didn't want us to, we have to answer, which are in the way, or they can look more than just developing the capital market. I can hardly accept that personally. I think the development of the capital market at this point is crucial, crucial for Serbia. His reform, if it comes to it, will, in practice, determine much how Serbia will overall look, whether it will be richer, healthier, happier. These aren't passwords, it's really like that. The capital market has come in its development so far that it has to be further regulated, it must pay attention to it, as one of the esteemed colleagues has already said, in order to channel into institutional flows everything that happens. So all those countries in the transition that managed to introduce capital markets into institutions had a successful transition and ended up as rich countries. As a successful and rich country, therefore, if we do so, we will be able to address all other problems in a better way, we will be able to solve all other problems more easily and easily. The position here has been mentioned several times, both formally-legal and otherwise, by the Committee on Securities of Values in the System, and this committee's meeting has already spoken for a year, because we need new laws. We talked before that, because, above all, the parent law must be amended by amendments, which is the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and other financial instruments. We need a law special law on taking over that will bring order here. Dear counterpart Koprivica mentioned the decline in traffic in 2004 and the ratio of the stock market to the events on the capital market. It is true, in 2004, it registered a decline in traffic, but our market is no exception. The whole region was recorded, from the end of 2004 to March 2005, a recession, a downward correction. In addition to us, what made the whole story more difficult is that we continue to fight laws that do not give us strong and clear instruments to influence the developments in the capital market. In other words, exactly what Mr. Koprivica said to force the companies that are open, public stock companies, to be listed on the stock market, because without it there is no growth in investments. It's just that there's less and less to be invested in, because on the other hand we've got takeovers that we can't control again, because we don't have strong enough instruments. What is now happening on the capital market is one struggle between the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the capital concentration process that takes place through this takeover. Here we need to help the stock exchange, as many of our good businesses as possible to be listed, including public enterprises whose privatisation is now being spoken of, and once again to amend the Capital Market Act. It also mentioned the commission's position that it should become a constitutional category to boost its independence. It must achieve three independences: the personal or personal independence of the commissioners, financial independence and institutional independence. This third one would come practically by mentioning in the Constitution, it would be at NBS level, it has to be at that level, and that's our international obligation. We hope to see a new constitution soon and then a new position of the Securities Commission. When it comes to financial independence, you see, this has also been discussed, unfortunately, the Commission's eighth quarter of the temporary funding, and it's not a matter of choosing a commission, it's the result of what I started addressing the Assembly; it's not the turn, it's not the annual reports and plans, the financial plans, not for the previous years, not for this year, so we don't have any other choice, but for the eighth quarter to be on temporary funding. As a result, pure truth works, it should be noted that the 2005 employment plan has not been achieved at all. Three new people have been employed, and at the same time for the other two commission officers we found employment elsewhere. So, when you draw the line, the commission hired one new man, because simply, until our financial plan is adopted, we don't have room to hire others. The Commission is not on the burden of citizens, so hiring people on the commission does not constitute hand-to-hand in the taxpayers' pocket, because the commission is a self-financed institution and is supported by taxis charged to participants in the capital market. So these are the fees that are charged for all those procedural actions that he has to approve. After she made it, and you saw it from the report, the extra income over expenditure, it was paid into the budget. The Commission has been in place for 15 years, and for all these 15 years, and otherwise this is the seventh term, in all seven calls, it has not happened that the commission has been on the burden of the budget, so all 15 years the commission has been a self-financed institution and always, at the end of each fiscal year, when the annual account ends, has been paying extra funds into the budget, and so formally-legally observed, and that is also said, therefore, the commission is financially independent. However, the very fact that the Assembly does not arrive, therefore, in a technical sense, to approve the Commission's financial plan, says that something with this, or with this financial independence, is exactly right, and that is why in the amendments to the Law on the Market of Papers, we foresaw that the Commission is bringing its own financial plan to the same as the National Bank, and that the Assembly is responding if it does not agree with that plan or if it finds that something is wrong with it. The Commission's liabilities are international, not only to the Assembly. So this committee's convocation has otherwise changed some of the strength ratios, by starting reports that it also submitted to the Assembly. The previous councils submitted the report to the government, and this assembly was submitted to both the government and the Assembly. And this is the first assembly the Assembly has chosen, and so far three such reports have been filed. So, it's been submitted three months, and each one is more extensive than the previous one, because thanks to these people we've received, we've managed to track the capital market as a whole, so with the report delivered to the financial committee in the Assembly, then the Assembly deploys to the relevant committees, we've also given an analytical demonstration of what's going on in the capital market together, and we're not just stating what the commission is doing as a state body, or as part of the administration system. In addition, the Commission has its own international obligations, whether we want it or not, we are part of the international global market. In this regard, we do not support the IMF, the IMF and the World Bank support the Commission's activities, and during this summer and autumn what we do is assessed by a positive assessment. We may like it or not like it, but it's such a reality. We can't be autistic. Finally, we tried to live in a different system that doesn't depend on the international environment and it didn't turn out right, not to lie. So we need to be aware that we are part of the international community, of a single whole, of a global market, where the rules governing and independence of institutions apply, so what international financial institutions are asking us to do, whether it's the IMF or the World Bank, whether it's the IOSCO, which is in charge of two securities commissions, where we're a full member, and they don't dictate to us on the day-to-day decision-making level, attitudes, etc. They support the independence of our institutions, so that we can protect investors, shareholders, market participants. At this point, while the new laws, which is the law on investment funds, the law on takeover and amendments to the value-market law, are not on the agenda, and I hope that this will be soon, since the preparations have been completed long ago and new editorials are now being done, and this is the third edition in a row. I don't think you should spend too much of your words on the board's system position and what it does or doesn't do. So, as our capital market looks, why it needs to be improved, why we let the New Sad stock market still not registered as a stock market, but it's still 100% state-owned, and we're a agricultural country, whether we like it again or not. Why don't we have listed companies on the Belgrade Stock Exchange? Even so, the Belgrade Stock Exchange managed to raise in the third and fourth quarter and volume and value of trade and expand the number of shares traded on the continuous market. So, all of this is already in the six - month and nine - month report delivered to the Assembly. It can also be obtained in the committees responsible and in the Service, in the Secretariat of the Assembly, and the Commission will be more than happy to answer any additional questions raised. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21012	I thank Mr. Milk Stimec for his comprehensive information and for being here today to help us work this out. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – THE STATUT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PRE-PUBLIC AGENCY AND THE FINANCIAL PLAN FOR 2005. I remind you that for these points of the agenda you have received the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which was adopted by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency on 25 June 2005, the Decision amending the Statute, which was adopted by the Council on 16 September 2005 and the Financial Plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005, which was adopted by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency on 5 August 2005. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and a report from the Committee on Culture and Information, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 160(3) and Article 94, that, pursuant to Article 160(3), the Joint Single Search will be carried out in agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint search on the agenda proposals under points 15 and 16, and before the opening of a joint single search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I remind you that it is scheduled for the SRS parliamentary group to be one hour, 36 minutes; DSS one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 21 minutes, 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs, five minutes each on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint single search on the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the Financial Plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005 I welcome Mr Vasic, deputy president of the Broadcasting Agency, who is with us. Is the representative proposing a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Are representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups? No, I don't. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word application submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. Would any other parliamentary groups like to apply for a discussion? No, I don't. ) Only the SRS. The first wants the word Branislav Rankic, and then Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the draft statutes of the Broadcasting Agency and the Assembly should declare that it accepts such a statute. So far I have had the opportunity to read hundreds of statutes, public institutions, various public enterprises, some other statutes of primary and secondary schools, but believe me, I've never had a chance to read this before. Em, the general statute has a large number of errors, if you will, and logical and meaningful, em, which is unusual and orderly and how the work of the Broadcasting Agency is arranged, i.e. the Council as executive body of the Broadcasting Agency. Let's just say, we've been used to having laws, and now there's something in the Statute that can and doesn't have to, so Article 4 says the agency can have a stamp in English as well. Does this mean that they will have or mean that they will not have, no one knows, nor do those who wrote the statutes and will be left to the will of individuals. Someone will want for their term of office, while a member of the agency, while he is a member of the Council or president of the Council, has a stamp in English, and then someone will come and say - we don't need this seal, I won't have it. It'd be a lot better if there were "age has a seal in English" or this wouldn't stand at all. It's enough that the agency has a seal, as already explained here, round shape, etc. As far as the Agency's jurisdiction is concerned, it's already becoming pathetic what's going through the laws, and here's the statute. The Statute should, first of all, have the obligation to regulate the functioning of the agency, i.e. the Agency's Council, and nowhere should stand, as it stands here, with a lot of pathetic, under point 5) - the application of internationally recognised standards and principles relating to the field of broadcasting, especially respect for human rights in this area, so there is a ban on discrimination, so some general principles that are not actually in jurisdiction. If you have stated what the principles of the Agency's work are, it could be accepted, but that the Agency has the authority to prohibit discrimination, it is prohibited by some other laws and indeed cannot stand in the statutes of the Agency. You have here in Article 8 that a member of the agency is elected for a period of six years. The latest changes to the Radio-Difusion Act envisioned three members to be elected for six years, three to five years and three to four years. I suppose this statute should apply to the agency's work after that first elected council, and that's where this might stand. I'll show you later that you have two identical positions in two different members, and then you should put here "and the first term of office for the members of the first council is determined by the Radio Diffusion Act", and not that it says that a member of the Council is elected for a period of six years, if we know that this first composition is chosen differently. The Council was scheduled to be assisted by an Ethics Committee, which counts three members. First, the Council will elect the president of the Ethics Committee, and then two other members of the Ethics Committee will be elected. It is predicted that this ethical committee is made up of honorable people, who will deal with professional and moral affairs, or represent the morals of the Council or of the Broadcasting Agency. If these three members so-called. The Ethics Committee to deal with professional affairs, which is why there are expert institutions in the Council, or the Broadcasting Agency, and you will see later on by budget, by the means provided for this year as much as they are spent on them and what they can do about the expertise of those three members. In article 11, you are explicitly saying that the term of office of the President of the Council is up until the end of the term of office to which he was elected as a member of the Council. However, you have provided for a term of office in article 37. So it can't last until the end of the term of office, but the term of office of President of the Council may take until the time prescribed by this statute, which means that he can resign, so he won't wait until the end of the term of office of six years, which means he can be prevented and, God forbid, by death, so he won't wait for the term prescribed. Or it can be prevented in some other way, although it does not say it here, by losing its business ability, so it also cannot carry out the mandate during which he was elected, but can until his term has ceased in accordance with this statute. You see, in one position in Article 14, you say that the president and members of the Ethics Committee, I return to the Ethics Committee, as the Agency's associates, have the right to compensation for their work. If they're the Agency's associates, then you had to write this statute to us how they co-operate with the Agency. Since they receive compensation for their work, whether they are obliged to come to work at the Agency, whether they are obliged to deliver certain things to the Agency at the request of the Agency, or the Council, to do certain tasks that the Agency requires of them, or they are co-workers who will receive the salary, and the statute is not a regulated area at all and the way they cooperate with the Council. When it comes to the rights and obligations of members of the Council, it is a new chapter of Article 15 and beyond. It is said in Article 18 that members of the Board and employees of the Agency will be entitled to possess a personal identification ID card. It describes what that personal identification identification should contain, in addition to names and last names and other personal data. I wonder what the meaning of that ID is. Whether all employees of the Radio-Difusing Agency, as well as members of the Council, will have some privileges, so that when they appear somewhere and show that card, which has a logo, then someone will say - you are and you can enter a concert for free or you can exercise some other right, and if there is no such possibility, what they will need with such a kind of personal identification card. I guess it's perfectly clear by the Constitution and the laws that someone is being identified by showing certain bodies documents that serve to identify a person; similar to the Law on Elections, it can be a personal card, passport, driver's license, all those documents that have a home number and photo. What's it gonna mean to them if they don't have any privileges, and if employees at the Republican Broadcasting Agency and members of the council will have some privileges, then they should have through the rights and obligations to give us what their rights are, especially the rights of other employees, which is not listed here. In your way of working and deciding the Council, you've been so complicated that I guarantee you that every meat committee of the SRS and every president of the SRS local committee, anywhere in Serbia, you'd better write this down as you decide at sessions than you're here complicating one matter, that it's practically not going to be clear to you how decisions will be made in the council. In Article 23, you say the vote is held when the discussion on a particular topic is completed and the chairman formulates the draft decision, so that it can be voted unequivocally for or not to vote. The most interesting thing is that you didn't predict here that someone could vote against or that someone could be abstentioned by Council members, they could vote yes or shut up, or if the President of the Council formulates a decision they'll nod or they'll be silent, so the president will assess whether they nodded or not. You say the vote does not determine the difference between the votes against and the abstentions. Then what's the vote for? I guess the essence of the vote is to see whose position it is over a decision, to see if anyone is in agreement with that decision, whether it is against that decision and to explain the reasons why it is against that decision. You simply say that the number of votes will not be determined by, or will not be determined by the difference between the votes against and the abstentions, because they will not be able to vote those who disagree with the decision, so that in this way you would ensure that every decision is passed. Later, you further complicate the fact that you are predicting a number of decisions that there must be a two-thirds majority, for a number of decisions a simple majority and for a certain number of decisions a half majority. When it comes to selecting a president and deputy president of the Council, it is also a very complicated procedure without any need. I assume your role model was some foreign statute similar to the agency. You say in Article 28 paragraph 3 - when voting on the election of the President of the Council, the professional service prepares ballots for voting on which the names and names of candidates are printed in alphabetical order, ahead of which is the regular number. What's it gonna cost, last name and last name? How are you going to line up names and names in alphabetical order? What if someone is Veljko Petrovic and someone is Peter Veljkovic and where they will be? Here you should have put a regular number in the alphabetical order of last names, regardless of which name is the candidate's name, no matter what the candidate's last name is, but when you put that the Commission will set a list, or a ballot with an alphabetic order of the names and names of the candidates, then you really don't know who's going to be in which place, which is not important because this choice is complicated and you'll find it difficult to choose. It says -- the council repeats the vote if one of the two remaining candidates received five votes. It is said here that two-thirds of the council members should be declared president. Unless the president votes in the first round, the next round votes for two candidates with a maximum number of votes or more than two candidates if there are more candidates with an equal number of votes. So there can be a maximum of two candidates with the highest equal number of votes, i.e. there may be two candidates with a smaller number of votes. But, let's say, let's vote for three candidates and how that vote is repeated if one of the candidates got five votes, what if someone got four. What if the vote was four, two, two? So, eight members of the council were, there weren't all nine, it doesn't say up there that all nine had to attend the session where the president was elected and there were, like, four, two, two. Is it going to the second round since no one got five votes? It's not going and there's got to be a full repeat of the procedure, and that's not good. That's what you should have thought about when you wrote. It's not so complicated a mathematics that it couldn't be taken care of. It is said -- in the case of a previous stance, only the candidate who received five votes is re-voted. In front of it is said -- if there are more candidates with equal votes, the Council reiterates the vote if one of the two remaining candidates received five votes. And beyond that, it is said -- in the case of the previous position, which is the one where someone received five votes, the vote is again only on the candidate who received five votes. I didn't understand, and believe me, I was a great student and that I was one and two maths in college, and I worked really well, and my teachers know that. It is foreseen that the Agency may impose measures laid down on the basis of the requirements of those applying for a measure to the Agency. When giving the measure Article 39(2) says - The Agency may give the broadcaster a warning and a warning, and may temporarily or permanently withdraw the permit to broadcast the programme in accordance with the law. Article 42 paragraph 1 - The Council may give a warning and a warning and may suspend it temporarily or permanently for the broadcasting of the programme. It's exactly the same. Why did you put that on? If the Council makes decisions and the Council is the executive body of the Agency, why here in Article 39, the Agency may say to the broadcaster, just the same, in the same place, the exact same text, and in Article 42. The council can say the same thing. It is evident that one of you did not read this law, or those who copied it or otherwise edited that they were not doing it very well. If I could see this illogicality in 15 minutes, then someone who'd been giving this to the MPs for months, then pulling back, and giving again, had to do it much better than me. As time passes, I will discuss a little bit of the proposal for a financial plan, with an explanation and an economic classification. You see the proposal for a financial plan for January - December appears in the budget of the largest local self-governments, appears with agencies, and I suppose the largest number of institutions, that one-off costs are specialised services and services per contract. Anyway, it's contract favors. What did the Agency need to spend 15 million and 800,000 dinars on contracts? Who has provided services in such a range for the Agency, and for the same time for 2005 planned salaries or contracts are 22 million 980 thousand. So, about as much as for wages, as for specialized services and contracts. If you already have employees who can do certain jobs and get paid, why don't they do the most of those services that you later, besides, order. Of course, it's because you're looking to hire your party colleagues, I mean professional services, I don't mean advice. So in those services that get paid, and then because they don't know how to do it, you have to order the services of some others who know how to do it. What's interesting about this is that this year's budget for the work of the Republic Broadcasting Agency provides 35 million dinars. You have not yet begun to make revenue on behalf of what you could when you normally start working, and the expenditure for this year is already estimated to be 81 million 198 thousands and 400 dinars - two and a half times more. I'm asking you how do you think of this 35 million to make this much? What about the Agency? Are we gonna lose her? Are you going to start immediately with a big minus, with the fact that you're going to show a deficit next year? Really, I don't know. You had to cut these services by contract, so you had to cut rewards, bonuses and other expenses. Rewards and bonuses are 15 million, 22 million salaries; 15 million is this; you would save 30. You could've reduced the Agency's work to, say, 40, so some five million would've found you to survive, but this hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21014	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, after two notifications, will have the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic. The notifications are as follows: The 45th session of the Justice and Administration Committee is postponed for November 2nd, so tomorrow, 2005, at 9.30 p.m.; the session will be held in the third floor hall. The second notice, due to the schedule of your affairs: today, as we agreed yesterday, we will only work until the completion of a single search that is now under way; then, whenever it is finished, the extension will be tomorrow at 10.00, for the 17th point of the agenda. We have 10 speakers registered from the SRS Parliament Club, who have 80 minutes to calculate your time. Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic, thank you for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21015	Of course I was tolerant, because it's also the quality of Serbian radicals, above all tolerance and fine education. Ladies and gentlemen, this assembly of parliament and the president of the National Assembly – which, as the first among the equals, on behalf of the National Assembly, often gives statements to journalists – boasts that we have passed a huge number of laws, that we are doing very effectively and that no previous assembly has worked at this pace and passed so many laws. I would like to boast that we have passed a number of laws that have been effectively applied and that have made Serbia a more effective state, in which there is law, security and in which most of the inhabitants live satisfactorily, happily and can meet all their needs and costs without living on the edge of hunger and being completely hungry. As we passed the Radio-Difusion Act, we had some objections, we said it would be slow, inefficient and we doubt that the law would be applied as it is written in the text. Now, when at the suggestion of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia we bring and adopt the statutes of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, I ask one question: how many televisions in Serbia have permission to broadcast the programme? We've got a million TVs, none of them have licenses. How long has it been since we started doing this job and editing? I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be now. Look at the space where their signal spreads, it started as local stations, which broadcast a program on the territory of one municipality or even one local office, one local community, and today in Belgrade, turn on your TV receiver and you will see TV signals from Nis, Jagodina, Kruševec, I don't know everything from where. So it's going to be a very important job that needs to be arranged and that requires impartiality first of all. But, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council are elected by the National Assembly, nine, eight are elected by the National Assembly, and one is elected by members of the Council from the ranks of the people, i.e. the person who lives and works in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, when she chooses most, she decides according to her intentions. So, from the experience we have so far known during this term, most always choose their own. The opposition will oppose, propose or make objections, i.e. certain objections, at the expense of some of the individuals proposed and not adopted. The majority will adopt what they want, and then the same majority choose members of the council, which is the advice most of them have passed on their powers, will deal with issuing licences for the broadcasting of programmes and the regulation of forms. What does that mean? Furthermore, the advice, i.e. the Agency, is overseeing the work of the broadcaster in the Republic of Serbia. Will the selected agency, or council, prevent propaganda, say, TV BK, which is mainly involved in promoting the work of its party leader, because in the meantime, the TV has become a political body, or a propaganda body of a political party. Will it prevent the devastating operation of TV Studio B, B-92 or Television, which is increasingly television by a political party in Nis. If it's chosen this way, then it's not an independent way, then it's not a good way, because most are always the majority. And so far, we've had some examples, we justifiably criticise some proposals, most of them adopt, after a few months, the truth comes out, and then for those people, who we said back then weren't the ones who could be recommended and qualified to do these jobs, prove it through their operation, or when some papers come out in the open. That is all, with what counterpart Rankic said, something recommended that the SRS parliamentary group would not vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21016	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, then the MP Veroljub Arsic, then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21017	The debate on the 15th and 16th points -- the Statute of the Broadcasting Agency -- is under way. Today we need to decide whether we agree to this statute. In that sense, someone should have proposed a decision to us, meaning the text of the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Radiodifuge Agency's statute. Let this be a decision: consent is given, this decision takes effect, etc., so there goes reasoning, reasons, etc. It would probably have to be a similar procedure for a proposal for a financial plan. So, you give consent to the financial plan and we have to have some kind of motion decision. So dry, the statutes and the proposal for a financial plan, and we don't know what it is that is proposed in terms of adoption, non-acceptance, giving consent, refusing to give consent, makes this debate really pointless. But, well, it's a task for the president of the National Assembly to handle the services of these formal matters. Officially-legislative, the National Assembly shall decide on this Statute of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency in terms of granting consent or refusing to grant such a grant. The SRS will not vote to give consent for several reasons. The first reason is that in the provisions of this text of the statutes, because this is not even a proposal, this is to bring the statutes, there are provisions that do not belong in the statutes. You have simply seized some areas that are not provided for by the Radio-Difusion Act, so that they can be arranged in a different way by the Radio-Difusion Agency statute. Here's an example of that. I'm saying this because I think you need to pull this off the agenda, redecorate, agree with the law and the Rules of Procedure and get it back in the process. You have a decree to suspend the term of office of a member of the Council. Why do you regulate it with the Statute when it's all regulated by law? On the basis of which you have come to this authority to do so with the Statute, when your legal basis for the Statute is Article 33(1). Radio-diffusion law. You're trespassing into one matter that's governed by law. That's one example. Another example, and you have them in each member, you have 59 provisions, see what you wrote in Article 5 - "The Agency is in charge", so in point 2) you say "control over the application of the provisions of this law". What law? This is the statute, it's not the law. That is why it is necessary, what we are constantly potentiating from this pay phone, when you go with an act, whether it is Government or someone else, to give that text to the Legislative Secretariat, to look at what is in these provisions, that later it is not found to be inapplicable. Of course, I think you've overstepped the authority that gives you the Radio-Difusion Act to do something about the statutes. It is primarily your legal position, status and internal organisation, as well as your way of doing business, but you do not have the right to edit the way you work in the statutes, i.e. very specifically to tell you, the part concerning the control of the work of the emitter. That area is completely governed by law. You don't have the opportunity to discuss it with the statutes. The Statute is a constitutional act for you. It is a specific situation for you because your constitutional act is the Radio Diffusion Act, but the second act in this hierarchy is the statute and you can only, by statute, status issues, legal positions, financial transactions and the issue of the internal organisation to resolve. You can't re-evaluate some issues concerning the administrative procedure in the material work that's regulated by the Radio-Difusion Act, it's unacceptable. In addition, since we have a single debate and concerns the financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, what you have prescribed in Article 45 of this Statute, you have given us this proposal of a financial plan with explanations and economic classifications. You wrote it all well, but there's no income anywhere. On the first page is 81,198,400 dinars cost. Where's your income? So you don't have a table view of your income, so you only have expenses. When you look at the argument, it's clear that you're planning 35 million from the budget to get it, and then you gave it to that second table per month that you're going to provide those funds, but there's nothing else, that rest of the funds from the regular activities, what you're charging under the law. What do you charge under the law? How could you plan to spend 81 million on 35? You were expecting it? "And the turkey hoped and ended up in a pot." The financial plan must have an income and expenditure side. Did Mladjan Dinkic see this? I don't think he'd let this go. At least he'd try to cover that formal part. So, there's revenue on one paper, so the paper turns around, so the expenses are visible, so you see, within the income, so much and so much, and we look at the expenses to get along with these things. There are fixed expenditures, salaries of employees, fixed material costs of business, electricity, water, telephone, etc., so there are variable expenditures regarding money laundering for some studies, etc. This isn't a financial plan. Find a simple accountant and tell me if this is a financial plan, and he's gonna cross over, smile and tell you, throw this away, don't joke with us. Why are you kidding with the National Assembly? Where's that Obradovic, he's an auditory house, I've been listening to him talk about some law for days, they can't master plain paper, what an audit house. A law-making and non-compliance machine shall not be applied and deliberately applied. Probably 35 million to 81 million planned revenues this year are revenue that will be realised by seeing through the fingers, so BK is going to pay, they're still being positioned, you know that. Look at that national journal. Look at these B-92 Ustashas, they took the Champions League. We've been talking for three years about the RadioDifusing Council. The first time was a controversial law, so the second time was a controversial choice, the third time was a controversial choice, and the fourth time the election law had to be changed, so a new one was chosen, then the ninth one was re-changed, and the subscription changed again. For three years, the same law has been changed, and there is no way for that postman to knock on the door, or now an electrician, and to collect that subscription. Of course, Koraća is gone, has amnested, there are no people who have worked on the radio-difusion concept, such as Vodanelic, the society has been torn apart, only Cekic remains. Everything passes here with most of it. Always most people are right, and the first time they passed the law, the second time they changed it, the third time. Imagine, in 2003, the DS asked to vote, that is, we voted on the resolution of certain members of the Broadcasting Council, so when the time came to vote, they were abstentioned, they did not vote for their proposal. There's been a lot going on. For what? The starting position: first, we need the Frequent Council to make a plan, to pass the government, to go to the competition. So when a gourmet occurs, you will see not only the interests of media owners, but also the real owners, so Soroš, so USAID, and even that law firm from America that helps the media and transparency in Serbia. Even that US law firm that helps independent, free media and "Transparency" in Serbia. One law firm, has two names, through one specialised organisation, they are in charge of Serbia and they are carrying it all out. Most of them again. It used to be Covic, it used to be this one, the one. It's always made most when it takes something from abroad to be carried out here. So now I don't take time away from my colleagues from the SRS, who also wants to say something about these two points of the agenda, Mr. President, I suggest that this be withdrawn from the agenda, because there are no formal conditions here that we can decide, the Pamara and the form of consent. I have cited only two examples in the statutes, and you can be sure there are 22 other examples of rough, formal deficiencies, which are why we cannot decide today on the statutes of the Broadcasting Agency. As far as the financial plan is concerned, he's so incomplete. And you in your company, while you were in the company, would you accept a financial plan like this, where there's no income item at all, but there are only expenses? Why would the state accept such a thing and give consent to such a thing, when it is contrary to the rules on material finance business. I suggest we stop the debate, get rid of these shortcomings, then start the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21018	It's a rhetorical request. The president cannot withdraw the agenda, because the committees that have proposed, or proposed, are concerned about it, and that is the only thing that the proposer can do. Of course, this is just a rhetorical joke. Thank you for understanding. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, so the MP of the people is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when adopting the agenda for this session, humiliated itself. At the very least, it should not give consent, especially to the financial plan for the Broadcasting Agency. The financial plan does not contain at all those provisions that should be contained. In order for the Assembly to be even more humiliated, the representative of the agency, the council, or whatever you want, did not find it appropriate even to address the National Assembly and the MPs and to explain one such financial plan. Certainly, it is not them that have just now found this financial plan on the agenda of the Assembly. That is certainly the responsibility of the ruling majority who votes the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. In any case, in November, discuss some paper to be agreed on, which refers to spending money for the current year. Let's say it's a change of financial plan, so there would be some possibility, with good reason and valid reasons, that the National Assembly would discuss this. First, as soon as you look at this financial plan, you can see that there is no revenue side, there is only the spending side, as it is. However, the only thing that may be in line with the law is the names of the analytical contexts, which is the purpose of the money in this financial plan. When you look at an explanation for a financial plan like this, the question now is whether this agency really needs this agency and advice to spend that kind of money. It is said in AK 411 - salaries and employee allowances, these are net salaries, since you already see that there is - a social contribution to the employer's burden, etc., it is said: "22,980,000". It is said that the agency should have 20 employees per systematization. Let's rework that for those workers who work at that agency. About 100,000 dinars somewhere. So, already in advance and insisting on this financial plan, they've defined their salaries. Let's see what it looks like next. Bonusi, AK 416 says "rewards, bonuses and other special expenditures - 15,900,000 dinars". Let's see who's got the money. That money goes to the president and members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council, as set out in Article 35. Radio-diffusion law. How many are there? Nine. What's their fee -- 100,000 dinars. It's a little When they've provided themselves with such salaries, I don't see that they've provided income outside of the Serbian budget. They did some analysis, some preparation for their work, etc. So there's no income. Why isn't there? He could have been a representative of the proponents of this financial plan saying: she did not give us the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enforce the law and that is why we have no income; if she can say it, and she can't, because she needs to get the money. It is further explained: "It is understood that if the revenue from the programme's broadcasting fees is offset by the needs of the Agency defined by the financial plan, budgets will not even be used." So that's the part we rule out, we've already heard there's no income. "Also, the Radio Diffusion Act requires the Agency to ensure that, in the event of a charge for broadcasting, higher revenues (that means no), just as the Government has an obligation to provide the Agency with the necessary resources in the event of lack of own revenue from programme broadcasting fees." So it's the government who has to secure those funds. The 2005 budget law provided funding from the Republic of Serbia's 35m dinar budget. It seems to me that in June there was a budget rebalance, this amount hasn't changed in rebalancing. Now on November 1st, we are discussing a financial plan and a deficit of 45-46 million dinars. Now the question is whether these funds have already been spent in advance. Should we just give consent to what has already been done, to cover responsibility, for example, the finance minister, who is directly responsible for implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget? So are the funds pre-expended, contrary to the provisions of the Budget and Budgetary System Act, or will it be retroactively spent? Let's look further at how their financial plan works. Travel costs: two million dinars. Services under contract: 15,800,000. The reason for the contract service is that the Agency would have to hire more people, to get more people into a permanent working relationship, if it had two or three other services, so it's ready to spend 16,000,000 dinars. So, for the already high salaries they receive, I mean those who work at the Agency and the Council, they could hire another 15 or 16 people. There are specialized services - 720,000 dinars. When you look at how much the funds are planned to be spent, it might not be much. But let's say we have current needs and maintenance of 1,875,000 dinars. For what? For paper, for computers. How many computers is that? Further, investment in fixed assets - equipment 8.300,000. What are the basic funds, whether they are computers again, whether they are cars, whether the Agency and the Council must buy a business space or whether it is within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to provide them. If they are provided with this business space, what is the purpose of the 8,300,000 dinars? It's a dozen extremely expensive and good cars. So the question is now, and what's most important is why we're only discussing this right now, because now we might be able to discuss a report on spent financial resources, so I'm thinking about those funds of the Agency and the Broadcasting Council. We only now need to give them consent to funds that we do not know are spent, meaning whether they received them from the Republic of Serbia's budget or were in debt, so certainly the Republic of Serbia must pay for it as the founder. I can see that an authorised representative of the motionor is taking his head off, but before this discussion was, it would be best if he had come out for this pay phone, so he gave all these questions an answer, so we wouldn't be having one of these discussions. However, this unfavorable conversation, the authorised representative of the proposings -- MPs, indeed, does not make sense, and for these reasons, the National Assembly should not accept, that agreement on one such financial plan for 2005, especially because the authorised representative of the promoter simply did not find it appropriate to explain this financial plan to us, especially as this financial plan is at the very least a stalemate, as it was proposed to the National Assembly on 24 March 2005. It is certain that many things have changed since then, when it comes to finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21020	The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević, and the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must admit that I'm surprised, it's mild to say surprising how imprecise this text is. I really don't understand who wrote this, and if these famous experts of this government and the Doss regime were already doing it, then they could do a little bit better to study and do it more seriously, because you presented this as something that is of great importance to both the media and the state, for all of Serbia. Enough of what's unclear here. I'm going to try a little bit from members to members, as long as this short time of debate allows me to point out some illogicalities. First, it says here already in Article 4 that the Agency may have a stamp in English. The question arises, what will this seal serve in English, what opportunities for use, and in what situations will a stamp in English be used in general? I don't see that in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the declaration brought by the Assembly on the use of Cyrillic. What are the occasions in which the Agency, which has no jurisdiction in that direction, will use the seal in English. If you can already make a stamp in a foreign language, or in another language, other than the one that is officially used in Serbia, then why not English, why not Italian, why not German, Russian, Chinese, why didn't you choose a language of national minorities, why not Hungarian, because there are more Hungarians in Serbia than there are English. Why not Bulgarian, Romanian, Russian, any other. Then, the Agency has its logo, but it does not say who and in any way determines the logo, when determining it, when changing it or anything else. Then why wasn't the logo set up here automatically in the statutes, so you could give us a proposal, so we can put that out. Then, with the Agency's jurisdiction there's a lot here, I'd say, completely demagoguely kicked out some flossules, most of these first points, there's even 17 points, and there's a lot of it practically doesn't mean anything, but it's interesting, because it's said that there's a ban on any form of censorship or influence on the work of radio-dufis and public ballots. How they're going to judge who's affecting and forbid it to affect, by what means, because it's absolutely not prescribed here. It is then said - the application of the principles of objectivity, including the prohibition of discrimination, is also in jurisdiction. So the application of a ban on discrimination is in the jurisdiction of the agency. Or, applying the public procedure when issuing broadcasting permits. We'll see later that from that public, which has been declared here and in some places, there's actually nothing, but it's also interesting that only 10th place is to issue permits to broadcast programs and prescribe forms for those permits. So what's supposed to be one of the most important activities of the Radiodifuse Council, what's going to break the spear the most about, so, just issuing permits to the emitters, it's only here in 10th place. That's why the 9th place controls the application of the provisions of this law, and this isn't the law, this is the statute. Points 11) and 12) are practically the same. It is further said: the rights and obligations of members of the Council. "A member of the Council cannot decide to represent the views and interests of any state or political authority or any organisation, interest groups, broadcasters, other legal and natural persons, as well as the views of the authorised proposing on whose proposal he was elected. "I ask you, who here will assess whether a member of the council represents the interests of a particular political party, a group or an interest group, its proposing or anyone else. Who is it that will assess whose interests are represented by a member of the council, and, if someone says so openly, here, I represent the interests and these political groups, which are the sanctions that you can impose on them. Furthermore, I think this is one of the most pointless provisions, which is Article 16(2), which says: "The Council member is obliged to get acquainted with the materials and suggestions he has to decide on. "Who will decide and check whether a member of the Council has met the materials, if you have predicted that professional services are being questioned before the session, so whoever has passed, who has met, can decide, and who has not met enough, give him corrections, delay the session in two days, and again the test. Who's the one who's gonna make sure someone met or didn't. Is any member of the council obliged to discuss any proposal at a council session or to vote on any proposal? Of course not. How, then, are you going to determine in any way whether someone has read the suggestions for a session or not? Will you send him for a polygraph, what are you going to do? What cannot be implemented in practice, which is absolutely pointless, best not to enter laws, best not to enter into this statute. This statute, I don't know anymore, has 65 members, I think it might come down to 15. Anyway, what you're supposed to do in detail in the statute you're not, you're leaving it for some ex post acts, and you'll see that already, and this statute is only temporary, and then a new statute will be passed, where the question of what kind of authority the Assembly will have. Then, article 19 says - The Council of Decisions shall take its decisions at meetings, and then make decisions by a two-thirds majority, that is when at least six members vote for a decision. Legally, this is completely illiterate. If you wanted to, then you should have told the two-thirds majority of the total number of members of the Council. That's what you'd say. What are you doing here? Why do you translate? You yourself said that this definition was not clear enough, as soon as you needed to explain it further, then qualified by the majority, that is, when at least five members voted for a decision. And the two-thirds majority is qualified majority. It goes on to say -- by simple majority, when the majority of members present vote for a decision. Furthermore, Article 20 says - the two-thirds majority of the Council decides when: first, adopting the text of the Statute of the Agency. It means they'll be making another statute again. It goes on to say - when adopting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council, then when adopting the rules, then when adopting the text of the strategy for the development of radio-difusion. When you say here that the statute of the text, so that the development strategy of radio-distribution text, and in this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council is not in the text, it is not the text to be adopted, the internal organisation rule is not the text, I ask: what is it? Whether it will be a picture book, whether it will be a tone record - what it will be, in what form - since you have clearly determined there will be no text here. Article 21, and this is very interesting, given that one of the most important tasks to be done by the Broadcasting Council is the allocation of frequencies, the question is why in this case will be decided by a qualified majority, i.e. only five members is sufficient. Why didn't you predict that this was also done by a two-thirds majority? That is, of the issues that need consensus, the most important question. But no, you decided to cut it down, and then we'll see what kind of pressures you've made possible here later on on the agency members, on the emitters. In Article 22, you say that the Council can make a simple decision, such as giving instructions to broadcasters, interpreting laws and regulations. First of all, I don't think the Council should interpret laws and regulations. Secondly, is it good that only three of the nine members of the Council are able to pass certain interpretations of the law. Will certain regulations be interpreted so often that you cannot collect enough members of the Council at that time? Then, look around the vote. Otherwise, all of these voting provisions, the election of the president, the deputy, are completely criminal, unclear, pointless and will allow for a variety of interpretations. He says, "The vote takes place when the discussion on a particular topic is completed and the chairman formulates the motion for a decision, so that it can be voted unequivocally for or not to vote. "Who invented it to vote yes or no? As far as I know, it's been voted yes or no, and possibly someone else can still be held back. How can you vote yes or no? Will he ask the chairman, "Who is for and who is not?" Of course not. Look, this attitude is the opposite of one of the following, where it is said, "The chairman doesn't ask questions about who's "against" and who's "sustained". It means that the chairman of the power to ask only who is "yes" and who declares "yes" enters the number of those where a certain majority should be gathered, and then it's completely unclear how that proposal will be formulated to vote for "no" and who will be for "no". He says the following: "At the time of the vote, there is no difference between the votes "against" and "abstained". How will it ever be determined who's against, who's abstentioned, if the chairman doesn't have the authority to ask, I really don't know, but it would be a good idea for the motionor to try to answer that. Article 24 provides for when a secret vote is issued, when it is mandatory, and then by a broad provision, it gives practical authority to the Council that any vote on any subject can be converted into a secret. And he says, "The Council can make a decision on a secret vote statement and on other issues if the previous public vote, by simple majority (the three members of the nine Council are sufficient), makes such a decision. "So, on any subject, the Council can make decisions in secret. I think this is really a shame and I think this is how you allow all kinds of machinations, to allow pressure on members of the Council. Look further, it's an interesting article 25. He says, "A secret vote is repeated when half of the members of the Council present vote votes for the motion for a decision. "So, if it is determined that a secret vote is to hide something from the public, who is who voted, and a particular proposal doesn't get the required majority, then you will take a half hour break, an hour, and you will continue to press the members of the Council, and then you will vote again, and if it does not bear fruit, then you can again postpone by another two hours, and repeat the third vote and so suddenly. There are no restrictions, you can repeat the vote a hundred times until in a secret way, a democratic, a certain decision is given to the majority, or until a certain broadcaster gets a permit or until some broadcaster's license has been lifted. Also, article 27 says, "A secret vote is conducted by a three-member commission, one of which is a member of the Council, and two from the Agency's professional services, or vice versa. "I invite anyone to answer me here what it means," or vice versa, who in this way determines anything else. So it will be like this or it won't, and who determines in which case there will be two members of the Council, or in which cases there will be two members of the staff. Based on what procedure? Of course it's not prescribed. He goes on to say, "A candidate who has not been elected President of the Council may be running for deputy president of the Council. "I ask you, can you run for President of the Council again and what are the reasons why you can't? It's not prescribed here. So, I don't see any interference. The very way of voting suggests that, as you should have long chosen here members of the Broadcasting Council, it will also be a great possibility and a great probability that the election of the President of the Council will take place for the next half-year or year, and thus allow this situation, as we have today in the broadcasting sphere, to remain indefinitely indefinitely. That whoever broadcasts the program broadcasts, that no further permits are issued, that nothing is charged, that this complete mess be kept, which you promised to resolve long ago. Then look when he says here, this applies to the public of work, means of public information, the Agency will provide the minutes from the Council session, except for the parts that are designated as the official secret of what the Council decides. What's secret and what's it about that the public can't know about? So this isn't the Security Committee, this is the Broadcasting Agency Council. What is it that can be an official secret? Secondly, is it not prescribed on the basis of which criteria and in what cases? How does this decision be made to mark a part of the record as an official secret? It is then said that it is up to the Agency to provide regular and extraordinary press conferences. How often? Once a year? Is one regular and one emergency enough to meet this condition? It is then said - The Agency will provide services to the Agency's public information agency. What kind of services does that provide? What kind of services do you do? It's nowhere in the statutes, and there's no law. It is said that the Agency and the Council will provide the public with work in the following way: the Council meetings are open to accredited representatives of public ballots. What are the conditions for accreditation? Who prescribes who will be accredited and who will not? You will have here again that the public of work exists, but only for those who are similar, whether politically or in one way or another, but at least you should determine who can determine whether or not accreditation is given to someone, if there is a desire for the public to work. Article 35 says: "On open Council sessions and press conferences, the Agency is obliged to notify accredited editorials no later than two days before their maintenance. "So there's going to be an editorial for which this will be closed. Who determines that at all, because nowhere in the Statute is there defined when there will be closed Council sessions and how there can be a closed press conference. Is it possible in a democratic society and is it even logical that you have a closed press conference, so they will sit with themselves in a closed room and hold each other a press conference. It makes no sense to have a closed press conference. This is where you talk about open council sessions, but you don't determine which ones will be closed. And you say in an indirect manner - we'll let you know about the open, those selected accredited two days earlier, but we'll keep quiet about closed sessions. And then you come to this, when all the members are taken into account, that you can simply hold a session of the Council without anyone's knowledge, to be closed, so you can determine by some unknown procedure that the minutes of the session will be marked as official secret, so you don't have to give it to anyone, and then you'll hold a closed press conference about that closed session and then you ask yourself where there's any public at all. And yet, in order for your transparency to be complete, you'll probably be in an unannounced session, which will be closed and whose record is kept secret, as well as making a secret decision, and then you won't know anything, who voted for anything, or what decision was made, but will simply appear on the air by someone who will have permission to broadcast this or that or simply take someone's permission to broadcast. I'm really sorry, there's still a lot of nonsense like this, because of my colleagues waiting for me to finish now, but I think it's fully established that something that's so undefined, so pointless – especially since it's been so long since this has been brought in, you've had time to prepare your statutes in a high-quality way – get out of the procedure, so let's do this humanely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21022	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević, then the Messenger Lazar Cavic, and the Messenger of the people Tomislav Penezić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. One of the tendencies continues is that as many MPs and citizens of Serbia as possible, the formation of agencies and the statutes of these agencies, under the cover of allegedly democracy, independence, objectivity, non-discrimination and equality of access to electronic media, allow all political parties, citizens and interested parties to have access to the media, that the media is objective, that they are impartial, etc. In practice, however, this is not so, because it also said before that all media is available, objective, independent, free, but it was only on paper. What guarantees will it really be as it says in this statute? It's practically nothing. It's not written what these are mechanisms that will guarantee, which will implement this and how it will be implemented. Here the agency, through its organs, is merely divulging responsibility, so that perhaps some responsibility will be brought down to some broadcaster, or some person who will be either a scapegoat or be punished by someone to calm the public down, in order to eventually, with regard to some objections from citizens, people and political parties, the spirits will calm down. It is not seen how it will be regulated, in one valid way, but it is simply a declaration of what the purpose of the agency is and when it is viewed like this - so it is a good point of the agency, it has to have an agency to sort it all out and that it would really be objective, that it would be democratic, and who knows how many attributes under the notion of democracy. The power of electronic media is enormous. Let's say, it forms an opinion of the public, and we are not what we imagine ourselves to be, but what the people say about us, and that's one rule. And how is the opinion of citizens formed, and how does the sense of serving citizens an individual opinion by political organisations, by the government or some ruling parliamentary group? An interview is being staged on the street, as to God from random passersby, paid or not whether they may be activists of some political parties and they get instructions on what they will and how they will speak. And then they answer the question -- what do you think about that and that political party, what do you think about that and that politician, what do you think about that and that person, and then at the request of the client, you get an opinion. Citizens who see it as a habit of really taking it as it says in the statute, that is, how it should be and take it for granted. They say -- what do you convince me when I watch TV, read in newspapers, etc. It's hard to break that information given by a powerful medium. You know that information is like throwing a bag of paper into the wind, and it's a denial if you ran after those papers to pick up. It's better not to defiance than to do Sisif's job by collecting these papers, so that possibly some means of information, or some medium, can be denied. When the election campaign of the previous presidential elections was local, all the funds were said to be objective, that everyone had equal access, etc. However, let's say BK TV, or the Serbian Force Movement, Karic's party, used the house all the time and the election campaign turned in its interest, were present on the TV promotion nonstop. They formed an opinion with the citizens. Then it was said that some measures would be taken. It was nothing, and even if it was after the election campaign, which is worth it, it's probably a result, it's not likely, it's absolutely safe. What is it and why many politicians want to have their own powerful media? It's not just a material situation, it's that it creates a passion for it to have a social position, that it has political authority to protect its empire. There is also a desire to strengthen its position, as a citizen and as a politician, and to protect the empire from potentially some attacks, tax authorities, etc., above all I think for the sake of the material side, in order to achieve other material goals. There's a different situation in the West. There are TV channels out there, each one for himself, except for some that the state finances, like RAI UNO TV, the Italian first program. These others have their own program, their own marketing, economic, commercial programs, or advertising, some of which are for furniture, others are for other species - household supplies, etc., and especially those for political emissions. Or, for example, those of us who are desirable -- scientific, educational, cultural and experimental, and other emissions, which are getting smaller and smaller with the means of public information. I thought that culture would prevail over time, that gossip would shrink more and more. But that's not the case. From the moment the means of information became more private, i.e. to self-financing, there were more and more inventions, speculations, imposing individual opinions and sensationalism, in order to create as much circulation as possible and thus gain for individual means of information. It is not only about newspapers, tabloids, but also about individual TV shows, or electronic media, etc. So, more and more is that at any cost, any way to achieve that economic interest. Why do you need this statute? According to my assessment, the statutes are required in the same way as the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that an act, for example, is a violation, some words, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to vote for that. However, if the ruling majority does not respond, then it is said, of course, the president says, if he has a sense of interest in the ruling majority, that will be determined in the voting day. If it's through the vote, then I'm absolutely sure they'll find it's Sunday. It's the same with the statutes. It should be voted that the Council, or the Ethics Committee, will say, is that, this is right, this is not right, and that way it will serve exactly that same function, purpose, as this Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. So they're going to apply it the way it suits the Agency, and you know who's standing behind the Agency. Apparently, the Assembly stands, and there is the same case as the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, as well as someone will impose that opinion, say - it has to be interpreted as such, so it has to be voted on and thus applied. So, if all of this were to be taken into consideration, interpretation and analysis, then it could be clearly said that the formation of the Agency, as an intermediate body, then, the formation of the Council, the Ethics Committee, and even a number of other institutions, was made just so that no one's direct responsibility could be found, that, in some ways, it would be dissociated, in the end, that, in order to calm the public, some potential culprit would be found in the emitter, who was reckless, irresponsible, etc. He let some misinformation into the air. It's very difficult after that misinformation to deny and determine the right facts. Therefore, these powerful means of information have been installed and imposed in this direction in order to have a greater impact on public opinion, on citizens, in order to support some political option, in order to accept certain information given by the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21024	Thank you, Mr. Pantyhose. The People's Messenger Lazar Cavic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic, and the People's Messenger Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Cavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21025	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this statute, as well as all the laws, have been prescribed by your employers, and all these laws you propose have nothing to do with us and our people. You're all doing it for this Europe that started to fall apart, so should our people fall apart in that same European explosion of globalism, which is not defined, nor will it be defined. So, stay away from these laws and act in accordance with the laws that our people want I would refer to the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. My colleagues have already said a lot, I'd just like to draw attention to a few members. So, the decision to change the Agency's seat is being made by the Agency's Council. Why does the Assembly pass this law when the Council can change the seat of this agency of yours? So, is it going to be in one of Serbia's cities tomorrow? In Article 5(1), you are calling for the promotion of freedom, professionalism and independence of broadcasting public votes. This member is contrary to us, as citizens. Our citizens are neither free nor democratic, nor live by these democratic principles. Here are a few examples to indicate; so the broadcasting system has already been sold, occupied by the world's media and individuals. For example, take B-92, Studio B, Deutsche Welle. Look at everything that Vuk Draskovic signed, passing and entering NATO forces and camping in our territories. What about our banks that are also unfree? Look what the IMF is doing to us. Is America and others saving Kosovo within the borders of our country? Also, I am going right up to it, and the Agency's Council has nine members who elect and resolve the Assembly under the "cheese" system, and we choose the ninth members from Kosovo and Metohija. It's good if we have freedom for it at this point. Because in Kosovo and Metohija, as we know, there's no "s" of freedom, no speech, no movement, let alone in a broadcasting space, because it's occupied, so they can't fly us there either. The broadcasting signals are under NATO occupation and other Shiptar controls. That's why I'm skeptical about this ninth member. Also, Article 8, where a member of the Council is elected for a period of six years. So, I see no reason to choose this council for six years, because normally when the structure of the congregation is changed, there should be a change in those members of the Council. Who's going to control those people who stayed in those places when the second structure comes? There may be a problem. Article 14, the Ethics Committee; the question is, what is the Ethics Committee? According to you, it's the Agency's advisory body. The problem is whose ethics this committee is going to implement, whether it's an ethical code of Serbian people or an ethical code of Soros, BBC or other countries and peoples, or whether it's going to be some small agency for your people's employment. The Ethics Committee thing is all suspicious, and it's probably another one in a series of citizen fraud and deception. This is evident from Article 14, which states that the president and members of the Ethics Committee have the right to compensation for their work. So the question is how much funds will be allocated to that body. Also, article 42 says, "The Council can give the broadcaster a warning and a warning, and it can temporarily or permanently withdraw his permission to broadcast the program." There can be selective punishment for those who are not under their control. I don't think we should support this statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21026	Thank you, Mr. Cavic. The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, then the People's Messenger Milan Vesenovic. Here you go, Mr. Penezie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21027	Ladies and gentlemen, in previous days, or in discussions on some laws, there may have been few sounds of ambiguity and indifference. There's no place here. You've noticed that all speakers usually go in a chronological order, because here they can't speak differently. This isn't a system law that needs to be discussed in general, it's a point-by-point. You noticed that too, and you will notice that when I say that mostly all representatives of the SRS talk about the same problems, which means that Serbian radicals agree, discuss, analyse laws, or in this case the Statute, and that they have a single or common opinion. That common opinion or rather the decision is that this cannot be voted on, because there is a lot of repetition, a lot of ambiguity, uncertainty, and I'm going to talk about it now. So this statute should be passed. It's good to bring the statutes, to put some order into the media, because there's everything in today's media. Sometimes a newspaper, a daily paper, I take it, read it, and then I can't bring it home, I throw it in the trash because I have women's children, if I had a man, I might bring it to them to teach them a little bit, but I'm ashamed of my children to see what's in that paper, and the letters for the daily press and for the serious newspaper. This statute speaks of the Agency, and then of the Board of the Agency, then of the Ethics Committee, which I will speak of, to the public, to express the measures to the broadcasters and to finance. I'd like to take a turn. I'll try to be as economical as possible for your haste, and I can see that there are few of you, and those who are probably in a hurry here because after our discussion, this session ends. The first thing that falls into my eyes, and I don't see any reason, is what everyone else was saying -- I don't know why our agency can have a stamp in English? If the English don't have Serbian, if they don't have Bulgarians in Serbian, the Macedonians, then why should we have in another language? We have our own language, and we shouldn't be ashamed of that language. It's our official language, and whoever needs to talk about it, translate, find a translator, and it'll all be clear to him. Secondly, in Article 5, the authority of the agency, point 3, says "the ban on every form of censorship and", and the line stands, saying "or the impact on the work of broadcasting public newspapers, guaranteeing their independence, independence of their editorials and journalists". Does that mean, or did I not understand that anyone can publish what they want? Here, we're fighting here for some kind of censorship. We'll come to that later. I think it's supposed to stand here that there's some kind of censorship, that some rules can be adopted, and what can't. It exists in other laws, but it should stand here explicitly. So there's no censorship. I like this under 17), which is consistent with this, it's called "the protection of minors", it's okay, like these other members, that I don't list them, but I don't understand point 18) "the doing and other affairs according to the Radio-Difusion Act". It's completely unnecessary, because it doesn't say what other jobs they are, and it doesn't have to be those other jobs. I guess all of this contained this, so there shouldn't be other jobs. Under these other jobs, you can make things up. Therefore, I would advise you to delete this "doing other jobs"; it is unnecessary. Article 8, I move to the Council, the election of six years, and here is one position that says, "The mandate of the President of the Council continues until the end of the term of office to which he was elected as a member of the Council." This coincides with Article 36, the termination of the term of office of a member of the Council. It says here that members of the Council can change, or that their mandate ends over time, with resolution, with resignation, and with the death of a member of the Council, and this president must not die, nor resign, nor should any of this apply to other mortals. It should be emphasized that this applies to the President of the Council. I'm going back to the Agency's Council. It is said to appoint the president and members of the Ethics Committee of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Somewhere here, it will be said that this ethical committee, i.e. the president and members of the Ethics Committee, as co-workers of the Agency, have the right to compensation for their work. The Ethics Committee shall consist of a president and two members. This is some kind of build-up administration. So the more people to hire, and it's known that their mandate is five years, and they're irreplaceable if they stick to this statute. So nine members of the Agency's Broadcasting Council, three of these members, various services are mentioned there -- that's one entire apparatus that will be on the back of the budget or self-financing. And in that sense, I will now move on to funding. I won't talk about the vote. That's what everyone's talking about. The only thing I resent about the vote is the vote being held when the discussion is over. I guess you know that. This article should be deleted. This is Article 23, which says, "The Council can decide by public or secret vote. The Council decides at sessions." I would recommend that some in the house with a secret vote cannot pass, so I would recommend that in all areas, and also here, there be only a secret vote. A public vote can be extorted, someone can influence someone, lobby. The very look at a man who's been lobbying can affect big decisions right now. I call upon you, to say a folk term, "squeal the loop" so don't raise your hand when the one you depend on looks upon looks at you. So, delete this Article 23, to vote in the end. Furthermore, the public works of the Council and the Agency. It's quite unclear here. It is said that public information means that the Agency will provide the minutes from the session, except for parts marked as the official secret to what the Council decides. The council can decide it's all a secret. What can we consider to be a secret? What the Council considers to be a secret, and that remains a secret to us. They're the only ones who know what they've declared a secret. If this is a radio-diffusion, I think it should be the full public in the work. If they find it appropriate, they will declare something a secret, and what suits them will be public. We have a measure here and it's repeating twice the same thing. You repeat article 39 and article 42 that says, "The Council can give the broadcaster a warning and a warning... "I will pay special attention to the funding, and I will end it, seeing as I have taken a long time. Among other things, the Agency can make revenues, so first it stands out of donations, from competitive documentation, etc. Donations can be in cash or stuff. Donors cannot be persons suspected of having any interest in the areas concerned by the Agency. Who will provide the truth about who gave the money, how much and why? You know that this is the area where people and information are bought the most, and this people are most poisoned, this nation. You know that the media has divided the Serbian people, and those who are subject to these media have acted further. What are the interests of, say, Sorosa or any other foreign agency, not the agency, to finance the vote or the media in Serbia? Believe me, whoever paid the money, he gave it with intent. Last night I stopped watching the program for a certain person, I'm going to say the characters, I'm not going to say my name so I couldn't press charges on Pink, because there was so much disgust against the Serb people that I had to break up. I'm sorry I didn't look at one smart man, and that's Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21028	National MP Petar Jojic is not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. Is a minute and a half enough for you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21029	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think that today the MPs of the SRS have said a lot about the shortcomings in the Statute of the Broadcasting Agency, which is crucial, was partly prescribed by the Radio-Difusion Act, part of what was written is not well written, not concise and accurate, so we Serbian radicals against this statute, as well as against the Radio-Difusion Agency Act, because we are aware that this will not be applied in practice. If we look at our media today, the means of information, and even a broadcasting network, you'll see that it's a real mess. In fact, in the media and at all in the means of information, there is a chaotic state and there is no citizen of Serbia who has no desire and no intention to improve this situation, regulate it by law, but those legal projects that are applicable in practice and in our society, and not those laws that I want us to adapt to Europe or some mentor of the current government from Europe, from the West or not at all, from which centre. So today we are wasting time, as the debate on many legal projects is a waste of time, because we are all aware that this will not be applied in practice. Why not? Because today, especially from the year 2000 to today, in the field of broadcasting and broadcasting networks, it's a mess. (President: Time. ) There are those media that, if you look at or read the daily press, turn on the TV program, you can figure out who's behind them, who's funding it. So, every one of them has a boss, and even these media outlets that you've made a decision to pay, i.e. citizens. RTS. In my opinion, this chaotic state in the media is causing citizens to worry. This would draw attention from the main topics and problems that Serbian citizens have, i.e. The media is used by those who break the state of Serbia and who are working on the head of the state of Serbia. That is why they will not be able to resolve the situation and arrange the area until we Serbian radicals come to power until these media are Serbian media, or media as a service and service to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21030	I thank all those who took part in the discussion and draw the strictest attention to the professional services of the parliamentary clubs not to underestimate the MPs and to take a little more careful care. On the agenda was the statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency No. 022-1571/05, as of 28 June 2005, and the draft financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005, issue 400-1895/05, since 16 August 2005. According to the discussion, they obviously had an old proposal ahead of them, and the professional service distributed it as soon as any proposal arrived. Part of the MPs had a text in front of them that was not on the agenda at all, and they were seduced by it. Fortunately, part of the MPs followed what was on the agenda and had the right text in front of them. I thank them all for their huge contribution. Before I conclude a joint single search, does the representative of the promoter, Dr Nenad Cekic, president of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, want a final word? Here you go, Mr. Hammer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21031	I wouldn't take your time, I'd just like to apologize to the MPs for not being on time, but I was too late to be informed that this agenda item is today at the Assembly meeting. The vote of the Statute will allow, I must tell you, that the Agency is fully legally doing all its legal obligations, to appoint boards of directors, so two broadcasting institutions, Serbia and Vojvodina, and to call a tender for the award of broadcasting permits in co-operation with the Telecommunications Agency, do not forget that we are not the only actors here. So, the adoption of the Statute enables us to bring this chaos into the air, completely agree with the assessment, and to arrange for one side of the state of broadcasting to be brought into the frameworks of the laws currently in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-01-0.u21032	I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the Financial Plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005. Since we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and a proposal to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005. Both proposals were submitted by the committees responsible, for all MPs who used their rights and worked on committees. Now we interrupt work, as promised. Tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., there is a follow-up, therefore, debate on the 17th agenda, and once again I remind the members of the Committee on Justice and Administration that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Thank you very much and have a nice day. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a sufficient number of MPs present in the hall for work. I'm asking the board members to continue their work. I would like representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not submitted a proposal for members of the Committee on Local Self-Government to hand them over, in order that we may, by procedure, during today's day, arrange for MPs to be in the Assembly to add that item to the agenda. Therefore, the choice, i.e. the replacement of the members of the Committee. It's also an opportunity to put something that is procedurally missed, which is the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, into the agenda. Please check with the deputy secretary whose proposals do not exist, and within that, the agreement of the heads of all parliamentary groups will be half an hour at the beginning, for when we will organise these proposals to come to the agenda. This has to be done by the end of the principle debate. So it's important for the functioning of local self-government, and for the Assembly and the judicial system. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported that he has been prevented from attending this session. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Stopping duty, SECURING AND CHOICE OF COURT FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have adopted the motions for a decision: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-2356/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 2. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Judge of the Municipal Court in Djakovica, number 118-2358/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Judge of the Municipal Court in Odzac, number 118-2357/05, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration; 4. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Judge of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, No 118-2530/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 5. Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of Deputy District Attorney, No 118-2360/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 6. Proposal for a decision to suspend the capacity of the municipal public prosecutor, number 118-2359/05, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 7. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, number 119-1788/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, No 119-2450/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 9. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1787/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 10. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2449/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 11. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1900/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-1901/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2098/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 14. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2451/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 15. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, number 119-2508/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 16. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-2511/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. Also, you received notice from the High Council of Justice: - to withdraw the proposal to elect Slavo Stojanovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Lajkovic; - to withdraw a proposal to elect Laza Petric for the President of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli; - to withdraw a proposal for the election of Tomislav Boykovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Smederev; - to withdraw the proposal for the election of Bozidar Vassic as President of the Municipal Court in Ubb. In addition, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions on the selection of judicial holders. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, held on 6 October 2005, the chairman of the High Council of Justice, Vida Petrovic-Škero, withdrew the proposal of the High Council of Justice, a proposal for the election of Siniša Stojiljkovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - 1 hour 36 minutes, DSS - 1 hour 3 minutes 36 seconds, DS-Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 21 minutes 36 seconds, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDP MPs, four independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93 item 3. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary clubs are authorised for this item on the agenda: in front of the Serbian Radical Party Zoran Krasic and in front of G17 plus Marko Krstin. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. I ask, do the words of the proposing representatives: Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration? No, I don't. ) Does Vida Petrovic-Skero, president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and chairman of the High Council of Justice want to speak? No, I don't. ) Does the word Slobodan Jankovic, a republican public prosecutor, want? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I give my word to Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Please, the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups to extend the agenda for the election and appointment of board members, as well as the item on the agenda, from now until 10:30 is in the president's office.
