ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23230	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I'm glad we have this working temperature on Sundays, and we can work actively on both the budget and all the other laws. My amendment referred to what qualifications an inspector should have to deal with the control of these products and, of course, the rules of his profession, I suggested that the qualification for this inspector be completed chemically, technologically or pharmaceutically. Of course, only those with those qualifications can quantify the dangers of certain substances used as precursors for intoxicating drugs and I strongly insisted that this amendment remain. After consulting with the ministry people, Mr. Minister and Madam Secretary of State for Health Nevena Karanovic, I received firm assurances that the principle of my amendment would be incorporated into the law on intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. Because I believe that they will do so and believe in the principles not only of their professions but of all other professions, I hereby orally withdraw the amendment to Article 34. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23231	Thank you, Mr. Zivadinović. In that case, we have completed a search of the bill in particular. I ask if Minister Tomica Milosavljevic wants to give the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, and since there are no amendments to this law, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Thank you. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC PROTECTION LAW (specificities)
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23232	You have received amendments to the bill: Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, and MPs Vukosav Tomašević, Petar Cvetković, Predrag Mijailović Lune, Goran Ilic, Paja Momčev, Branislav Blažić, Mileta Pošurica, Milomir Dunjic, Goran Cvetanovic, Nemanja Šarović, Milivoje Mašić, Dragoslav Milković, Vjerica Rade, Nataša Jovanovic, Momažar Marković, Milorad Mirčić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Nemanja Sarović, Milivoje Vuković, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Vitomir Plužarić, Zoran Krasić, Miljko Četrović, Zlatan Jovanovic, together Miroljub Marić, Vesna Lalić and Snežana Pantić-Akstenović, Blastović, Blastić, Blažić, Blažić, Blažić and Radjić, Radjić, Radko Štić, Radko Južić, Radko Radko Južić, Radko Žvić, Radko. The amendment was written by MPs Miroljub Maric, Vesna Lalić and Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević, to member 199 who submitted the 9th and 10th of November 2005, Predrag Mijailović Lune to member 199 and Goran Ilic to the article. 164 and 190, and at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, Živodarka Dacin withdrew the amendments to the article. 10, 18, 98, 102 and an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 109a. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since the Government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, I find that the following amendments of the MPs have become an integral part of the bill: Miroljub Marić, Vesna Lalić and Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević to the members 11th and 25th, to the title above Members 129th and Article 129th and Article 142; Živodarka Dacin nakl. 36, 69, 221, 222, 256, 256, and the amendment which proposed that a new member of 268a be added after Article 268a; Vesne Lalić to Art. 52, 200 and 201; Snezana Stojanović-Plasic in Art. 99 and 203; Goran Ilic, Art. 125nd and 222, with correction; and the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina to Article 130. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together submitted one amendment proposing identical changes in Articles 1, 2, 8, 9 and 13 to 16. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23233	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, here we are on the third day as we discuss the package of laws and ultimately, would say man, the crown of everything – one of the most important system laws, the health care law. You already know, just to remind you briefly, the radicals will not vote for this law. Let me just remind you briefly and of the reasons that lead us to this. First, because it is not respected the will of most professional associations and trade unions. Second, what is not possible is the correct procedure for the debate in the congregation. There is a united, hasty, unnecessary debate on a package of five laws. The Committee was prevented from considering the solutions proposed by the Proposer in a normal debate, through dialogue. Furthermore, the proponent argues in the light of this law that it is a reform law. We argue that despite having a newspaper, it is not reform law, but a law that preserves the current adverse situation in Serbia's health care system. Of course, we're going to do it now in detail and prove it by discussing these members. What I object to this law is overexpansion. Rarely in developed countries and transition countries, not to go out of Europe, you will find a law that regulates this area with 300 members. Furthermore, there are many declaratives unnecessarily put into this law. And these are all the problems that citizens will face when they want to check the law and verify their rights under that law. The law will confuse them with its abundance and some of its formulations and solutions. But let's slowly approach the subject of this amendment. Before that, here I am again showing to the cameras: these are all opinions of professional organisations and trade unions that have not given a transitional assessment to this set of system laws, and to me is the most interesting document we received yesterday. The document comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and says this – the Council for Regulatory Reform of the Government of the Republic of Serbia... I have the opinion of the Board for Regulatory Reform with the signature of Mr. Bubal, who is the chairman of the commission. And it's said like this -- in line with, let's say, some legal regulations, the Department of Health's Board of Regulatory Reform has delivered the draft bill on health care workers' chambers. The same applies to the health care law. And then he says – although it is about regulation of matter which is crucial for the status of private practice in the field of health, as well as for citizens who use health services in that section, no analysis of the effects of the proposed solutions on these two categories has been carried out. The analysis of the effects was based on a brief and incomplete description of the proposed changes. The last sentence also stated - a public debate was held in the process of adopting this law, which did not comment on the proposed organisation of health services, i.e. emerging forms of health institutions and private practices. The fact that it wasn't, right now in my left hand, that's not true. So someone knowingly or unconsciously deceived the Council for Regulatory Reform, who further extensively quoted what was to be done. He says this: "We note that, in accordance with Rule 34, paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Reasons - the reasons for the adoption of acts must in particular contain certain problems that the act needs to be addressed; the objectives achieved by adopting the act; an analysis of what other options to address the problem are considered except for the adoption of acts; why the adoption of acts is best to address the problem. "Don't count a bunch of things. And, as the conclusion puts it -- given the above, we believe that this reasoning of the drafts of both of these laws is not done, does not contain an analysis of the effects, in line with this and this member of the Serbian Government's Rules of Procedure, although such an analysis was necessary. That's sick. Now I'm asking, I'm not asking the minister, I'm asking the government of Serbia -- if she founded what she founded, the body, and if this body gave this opinion, what is it now? How can the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the reform government, how can the prime minister, who is at the head and most responsible for the actions of the government, allow, after such opinions by the reform committee that has been introduced, the Council for Regulatory Reform to release such solutions to this law? Please clarify. Here, I'm asking a question. I don't know who's authorized. Perhaps Mr. Secretary has been authorized, so please provide us with this information as to why the request is not respected. The date of the document is 30 May. So you had time and how to comply with the demands that were made here. Both laws, so yesterday was about the chamber, and I have a document for the health care bill that you were being sued. I'm not going to read the details of what you had to do and what you didn't do, and you've led into error, you've tried to mislead this body without any objections to the solutions made. The remarks are here, you show other documents that disprove what I'm saying. Let's move on. Let's go back to the law itself. We have a long and hard debate to discuss today. I know that, but unfortunately, we just can't get out of this skin. The DOS government, which after five years of being here in this way is incarcerated by its power or impotence, makes us have to deal with the bill seriously today. I'm going from Article 1. He says this - this law regulates the system of health care. Health care system – we have proposed to delete it. This law does not regulate the health care system, because the system consists of all participants. If it's a controversial definition, we'll also show her, the latest, most powerful of the World Health Organization documents, from a report in 2000, where he clearly defines what a health care system is. Here you don't regulate it, because by special law you regulated health insurance, financing health care. It's not the subject of this law. What you have written further, to read again and again, this member of yours: "This law regulates the system of health care, the organisation of health services, social care for the health of the population, the general interest in health care, the rights and obligations of patients, the health care of foreigners, the establishment of an agency for the accreditation of health institutions of Serbia, the supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as other issues of importance for the organisation and implementation of healthcare. "In addition to proposing to delete the health care system, because the law does not regulate it, we gave you a proposal on what regulates, and that is correct. We suggested that you replace the word "patient" with the word "citizen," because you would agree that if you go to a patient, then the opening preamble remains that this law is about sick people. It's certainly not your ambition to be a sick law, but to be a law that prevents disease and improves health, promotes health and then throw out "patients", put "citizens," but of course, you're stubborn, you won't do it, on your shame and shame, and there's nothing we can do about it again. Our amendment reads this: "This law regulates the organisation of health care, social care for the health of the population, general interest in health care, rights and obligations of citizens, health protection of foreigners, supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as other issues of importance for the organisation and implementation of healthcare. "What did you say? It says this - basic provisions laying down the subject matter of this law provide for an area governed by the Proposal for a Health Protection Act, so it is unfounded not to mention that this law also regulates the establishment of an Agency for the Accreditation of Health Professionals. In fact, you've put the basic provisions here, in general, something that's individual, which is an agency. If you wanted to read the paper, why didn't you put the license on, why didn't you put a bunch of other stuff in? The agency is something you've plotted, which is completely in turn, which will be within the Ministry for a few years, and then needs to live. It seems to us that the solutions that you imagined the agency was operating are neither appropriate for the current moment nor for the needs of Serbian citizens. You've already denied citizens that if the insurance law is passed, they can't choose a doctor; the state of monopolies will choose through a fund commanded by suitable doctors, and then the citizens on the list can choose. It's already, if you adopt such a version of the law, it's a done deal. We're telling you that we need to get rid of that agency, that the "patient" needs to be replaced by a "citizen" and we're just telling you that you need to tell exactly what the law is doing. The Croatian law, which has served as a great example for you (and your first variant is absolute proof of this, you prescribed the whole attitudes from the Croatian law), it clearly defines. They say what we suggest, a solution, which you are -- let's change it a little bit, but then it loses its meaning and fullness of meaning. We can do this on a theoretical basis and we will have to discuss it here, to bother the honourable MPs who still attend this debate today, and we will prove it. When this law is passed, I have one thing to tell you. Serbia has a long legislative tradition. After the Serbian-Turkish wars, Prime Minister Vladan Djordjevic passed two laws and acts in 1879. Don't put us in a position to rewrite Croatians. We had our own laws in 1879, which were modern, modern; the two laws, the draft laws on the National Sanitary Fund, and we discussed it, so that you could look at this law, the tax-numbered coster, which costs and how they are provided. Why didn't you follow our great ancestors here, and so did you? And you had his draft health-preservation laws in the people and on the domestic cattle that was quickly transformed into a law on the preservation of human health. So we don't need the prescribed ones, and then the changed, haired laws, we have our own. This is exactly what I'm ending up with. You've also had good examples from the past, because these laws were a synthesis of our capabilities and needs and of the Austrian sanity law that was considered the best in Europe at the time. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23234	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Health and Family did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23235	When it's done like this, it's normal not to do it right. Yesterday, after a pay phone, a respected Serbian Radical Party MP, Dunjic, made an adjudication and said, "Ministers, it looks like the bird flu has won over, MPs swear." He's got a temperature of 39, he's better off keeping it quiet, and he wanted to drive sick, but he collapsed along the way and he's not here. That is why we are now forced to defend the amendments of our fellow Members who are not here and ask for your understanding if we are not expedient and if for a second we may be out of time. Article 2 says this: "Health protection, within the meaning of this law, is an organised and comprehensive activity of society with a fundamental goal of achieving the highest possible level of preservation of the health of citizens and families. "Then it is said in the second paragraph: "Health care, within the meaning of this law, includes implementing measures to preserve and improve the health of citizens, prevent, combat and detect diseases, injuries and other health disorders and timely and effective treatment and rehabilitation. "We told you to delete this "containment." The minister wasn't at the hearing, we got the lawyer's answer that the suppression should be, but we think it's too high. If you have conservation measures, you have a health promotion and an improvement in the health of citizens, then you have prevention, and then there's suppression, and there's an early detection of the disease. You need to find out early first, then you need to stop her. You can't stop her if you didn't find her early. Even if we move the suppression to early detection of the disease, if what is said below is true - both timely and effective treatment and rehabilitation, timely and effective, then it includes and control. Why unnecessary verbalism, we don't understand that. We follow your thought logically, it's a health promotion, it's prevention, but then it's early detection when we go to disease. You have to find out, then you have to stop. You can't stop it. You can't find out. You won't adopt that. You stand stubbornly on the principles of illogicalism. I wonder why? You have imposed on us such an inappropriate pace of work, unquality work, where the Assembly does not practically participate, where only Serbian Radical Party MPs speak, the reputation of this assembly collapses, authority collapses. There's double intent, one general, and one special. The general thing is that the people are disgusted by parliament, that we are disgusted by our constant exposure to the people, that it is shown that we are only here to resist, we are sitting and nothing else is our goal, and that we come to the final convention of Colonel Gaddafi, who said that parliament is the most corrupt part of the people and the state, and that he has abolished it along with the people, in the name of the people and in his "Green Book" he speaks of direct democracy. So some other phenomenal forms that exist in society and that are very interesting for analysis suggest that there is probably such a tendency. What is the concrete goal of, as I have already said, with this debate, perhaps less quality, thanks to the fatigue that we all feel and suffer, you want a quick package of laws, which I have never passed, to be bound by a commitment to the adoption of a new budget, in an artificial way, to adopt. The government jumps into its own mouth. I read you the Council Act on Regulatory Reform. He says that what Europe is looking for has not been done. The World Bank has requested the establishment of this body at the government and you are now saying that you are making foreigners, and I am asking the foreigners who are in our country – do you, gentlemen, really require that we in the Assembly pass laws in this way, and what is particularly important in these anti-reform, monopolies and corrupt laws? Do the citizens of Europe really want these solutions legally, this procedure and imposing something that does not correspond to the citizens of Serbia, because if it does not correspond to the citizens of Europe, why would it suit the citizens of Serbia? Let them imagine, if it's not true what I'm saying then it would be a logical coincidence to withdraw these laws. If what I'm saying is true, and if it goes with the consent of the international advisors who are here to help us, then I have nothing to add but the fact that "merciful angel" action is not over, but continues, only in peacetime conditions. Therefore, the rigidity of the promoter and the lack of answers to this really brings us into one awkward position, but we don't have others, we'll answer, we'll professionally dispute. Again to tell you what gives us strength, there are two generators that give us strength and mandated imperative that we must report and discuss: the opinion of top experts, experts, I can say their names, and Serbian citizens, the interest of Serbian citizens. This is what bothers us to continue unwaveringly to point to the lack of solutions to the health care law, which should be the law on health laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23236	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov, especially thank you for your willingness to speak further from the point of view of the arguments of the profession and the interests of the citizens. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I have submitted a summary amendment relating to several members, but in order not to take away the time we have and how it takes us to complete these important health laws, I will only report twice. In our amendment, we proposed that all the members in the opening part of the law should be left out of the words such as "social concern for the health of the population", then in the definition of health care, the definition of the definition that this is "a comprehensive activity of society", as well as the titles that read as "Social care for health at the level of the Republic", "Social care for health at the level of AP, municipalities, cities", "Social care for health at the level of the employer", "Social care for health at the level of individuals". We have been thinking about how to amend these termological definitions used in the law, and we have consulted, of course, the highest legal act, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and suggested that in each of these members and titles, the word "social" is replaced by the word "state", and then we would have social care for the health of the population in this proposal, as well as the provision that health care is a comprehensive activity of the state with a fundamental goal of achieving the highest level of health conservation. In the light of our amendment, we have stated, among other things, that the concept in the bill under which the organisation of the health care system is designated as a social concern for the health of the population is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other laws of our country. Namely, in Article 72. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia provides a system in the area of health. Article 1 of our Constitution found that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens living in it, based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, on the rule of law and on social justice. If it comes from the constitutional notion of a sovereign state, where it is, in fact, a citizen who is the basic institution of the sovereign government, who is voluntarily transferring to us MPs, elected representatives, it is clear how much use of concepts with a definition of "social", "social" in fact anachron, and above all wrong. The 1990 Constitution left out all provisions on social regulation that were decade-longly characterized by self-government, organisation and self-government and a single-party system. The Marxist definition of society, based on relations in production and opposites between the two classes on which the former SFRY system rested, represented the denial of citizens as the bearer of the sovereign government, with the aim of providing the single-party system in power. The organisation which includes the security and enforcement of healthcare must be in the jurisdiction of the State and at all levels of the territorial organisation. The fact that we involve all individuals, families, organizations, associations and others in the health care system does not mean that public health concerns can be called social care for individual health. A little later in the second presentation, I will look back at the reaction and the response that the Serbian Government has delivered to us on this summary amendment of ours. So much for the first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23238	Now here you are, Mr. Maric, talking about Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23239	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for amendment to Article 3. Before I say what I think of the amendment to Article 3. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23240	Excuse me, please, there's no amendment to that. Mr. Maric, I have also warned you, we are now talking about an amendment to Article 2 not to confuse MPs, you are talking about an amendment to Article 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23241	I was just about to say, since you mildly warned me last time in one of my announcements that the principle debate is over, I don't want to talk about some details, but I have to look back on my colleague Paia Momchilov's comment on why he wants to show to the public here that only MPs and colleagues from the SRS are in favour of some discussion of the health care law and that we here are constantly watching all this and we don't want to get involved. That's not true. We have been very seriously and responsibly considering all of this and I can say, in the same public interest, that on the Committee on Health and Family, we have processed all these amendments in detail, and that we are in principle not going out and we are not responsible for the amendments that we think are not rational, that they are not correcting anything in the law. That's why many amendments pass without our comment. I'm just about to say that this amendment to Article 2 is also one of those similar amendments. It predicts erasing the term "suppression." These are some explanations – if we do not detect the disease early, we cannot contain it, and it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23242	Everyone explains their attitudes. Since there are no more applications under the amendment, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are certainly all in agreement today, which is that today's debate on the health care law is really rounding up and crowning health laws at this point in the Serbian Parliament. Is the scope of the law a problem? The scope of any law can always be a problem, and it can be an advantage, depending on how the whole thing is observed, however, it has no essential importance. It could have been made out of this law by three or four, including five different, smaller laws, but it was also possible in a fairly comprehensive regulation to present everything that is important for the organisation of a health care system and it was the idea of a promoter. The system of health care is a constitutional category, in Article 72(1), paragraph 6, and it is provided by law and is therefore referred to here as a system of health care. It is then mentioned why in the beginning of the general basic provisions it is mentioned that it will also be arranged to set up an agency for the accreditation of Serbian health institutions for which a three-year period is left to be established and that, in this accreditation of health services, i.e. an institution, is introduced more quickly in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. It is a question of the legal technique of our country – when something is first established by some law, then it is a legal technique to be mentioned in the basic provisions. It was then mentioned that the Council for Regulatory Reform was preparing for the submission of the Health Protection Act. As the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has a complex way of working, which implies a number of procedures that must be respected in order to finally consider before the eyes and ears of citizens the draft laws addressed by the executive government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Government of the Government, the Rules of Procedure and other regulations, have very precise procedures for deciding something. Since it is a system law, it is then that I, as a health minister and a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, appear before you before you MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and defend the bill. The preparation involves a public debate on which the plan is adopted in advance, informs the public, and then it is implemented, and a report is written, and if there is a reason, the debate is extended, and then the conclusion of a public debate is incorporated into the creation of something called the draft law at that point. Before submitting to the government as a proposal, as a draft which will be loud and then in the Assembly, the opinion of all ministries and all relevant government and state bodies is requested, and this is the process that takes weeks, months, in the course of which the text is being changed, brased and made of it for the moment as best possible. When one piece of paper was removed from the process, then a series of remarks from one ministry, a series of objections from the other ministry, a series of remarks from the Board for Regulatory Reform, but when these objections are taken into account and when a draft law is passed to the government, then the government adopts it and when it adopts it, it is the bill. After such extensive preparations, which begin with the initial idea of regulating an important area, to change the system in a way that will be best for this moment, to the proposal and to this day, this whole process means that if you rip one part out of it, and that's exactly what it is, one piece of paper has been drawn in the course of that preparation, then it can mean something different from what it is. The mention is Dr Vladan Djordjevic, who was the president of the Serbian government, who was the first man to organise a system in this country. Every minister of health and every congregation that discusses any law that regulates the health area, both today and tomorrow and the day after, over 100, 200 and 300 years, will have a distinct responsibility, a heightened feeling that the spirit of these first solutions is actually following us when we bring this one. I am convinced that today's debate will be going in that direction and therefore I have tried to give very concrete answers. It is mentioned – state and social. When a distorted practice and the upside-down results take away the meaning of a concept, then the term begins to understand how it doesn't really mean. When you say "social care for health" today, then because of the persuasive sound of social property, you think everything that is socially needs to be crossed down. I understand the noble intention to avoid the trap, however, falling into another trap. The state is one thing, and society is something else, much wider. The state is important. Without a strong state, there is no well-organized society. People live in organised societies based on the market economy, on parliamentary democracy, on social justice, on the care of residents. Social care implies not only the role of the state, and therefore, in this law, social care for health, not state health. As for the term "suppression," he is here for a very specific reason, which must be understood. Some infectious diseases that occur in the form of epidemics include, among other things, control of the epidemic. You can fight some infectious diseases in a way that you completely eradiate it from the planet, that it is no longer human. For your information, I'll tell you, in the '40s and '50s, people were getting polio, and then their whole lives had some problems, smaller or bigger. Since the mid-50s, thanks to vaccination against polio, against polyomyelitis, it's not bad to know when we're talking about health laws today, the efforts of all humanity, and that's where our experts participated, because those fifty years of doing the first vaccines against polymyelitis, against polio, including the Torak Institute, which 97.5 percent of its work on vaccines actually has in the field of diphtheria, tetanus, polyomillitis, big cough, morbili. In 2003, Serbia's health minister had the honour of obtaining a World Health Organization certificate that Serbia's health service, then Yugoslavia, had previously participated in the complete eradication of child paralysis from the globe. Therefore, polymyelitis is no longer available in Europe at all, and in the next 15 years there will be no disease, polymyelitis, nor in Africa, nor in Asia, thanks to successful vaccination. So sometimes it's possible to have an erection, and sometimes it's possible to contain it. Until you've completely eradicated something, it means eradication, you've got to contain it. That's why there's a term left to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23244	Thank you. The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 4th Amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23245	Okay, now we've got a little law-writing education; I thank the minister, I have no ambition to be a minister, but others will benefit from that. One of the radicals will have to be a minister, it's very close. It's a good thing we know the drill. We were, of course, and we knew that we were politically so directed, we were showing documents showing that some of the relevant papers were not adopted, you weren't changing, and many of the so-called team. I attended public debates personally; television videos, which I said earlier, were about it. People asked different questions, a lot hasn't even been changed, Malten, that we were getting almost raw texts. I'm not, of course, a fan of your legal proposals, so I'd like to ask each and every detail and we'd like to discuss it here. The principle doesn't matter change, just like this principle of going into an overexpansion, the thickness of the law, here's what, for each side of the camera, it's going to fit on this side of the A4 format. Here's our old law and the Croatian law, from which we heard, was partially prescribed. So, two laws, our valid and this valid in Croatia, when you add them up, they're thinner than the ones that we've brought, a lot of text, a lot of paper, a lot of things will remain, of course, that's not solved properly. Since we represent the opinion of a large part of the citizens in Serbia, mostly half of them, then of course we think that with attention we should be heard and that our apriors and our persuasive amounts are not taken away from us and that we are not responding to each one, but we are ready and we have arguments as to how wrong it is. As for Article 4, he counted everything in his descriptive work, except for local communities and agricultural cooperatives, which are not responsible in the social community. It's simpler. Why didn't you sign over there, so every person or every citizen is obliged to take care of their health. It's simple. No one should endanger the health of others. Simply, briefly, you see how it could have been simpler. Every citizen has the right, translated into our language, to health care at the highest possible level. Short sentences, clear, core, can do that and so, when you take something from the other, take it to work, etc. It's "social," you've already said yourself how much it can associate with socrealism, cardio, self-management, and that's one side. Another real danger is divergence of responsibility, that it will all go to local self-government, etc. I have not been able to strictly see from the law how long the central republican budget will grow and support the AP budgets and cities at the moment of the isolation of institutions that are in their jurisdiction. Will there be more transfers of funds? Will the transfer of funds be bigger? Is he going to be budget-secure? Will apothecary institutions be safe? They're in a network of institutions that need to round up health care. It's not just such a tax collection that, later on, when divorced by a private, individual... I don't care about the Republic, of course. I just want to take a look at it. They're employers, and that's what's been settled in the law that we've already passed. Such concerns and the employer's position are resolved by the safety and health law at work and by the end of the story. This is all accounted for, and jurisdiction, and their obligations to the employee. Be assured, whoever is employed by the employer, there are still such, we don't count STR and small firms, and finally, when a health problem comes to him, when he needs to look for a health care service, he'll have in his mind a play and, realistically, he'll go not into medicine, it's less and less, because there are few companies he has and who do, but in a certain home of health or another secondary level. Again, someone else institutionally in the higher hierarchy than I am an employer will have to worry about that. When you count here now what everything a retailer's employer can replace is a health organization itself. Of course not, we all know that. I don't want to turn the story in that direction, but the truth is that providing preventive checks, measures, hygiene-sanitary conditions, using protection, is a preventive action. If so, say, it refers to one position, in terms of safety and health at work, it is settled in a law called the so-called law and for which we have disputed with a minister who was also stubborn, he did not want to accept anything of ours. If something radicals go, even if it's a replacement of a sentence, sometimes a termological definition, make a plezer. We've given up this three-member law. She didn't have to give up. We could say: hemp and red macaque is a plant product, a resource, a natural substance, a natural source product for drugs. It's not the hemp itself, it's not the hemp itself, it's the slice of it. We could have made a story that we wanted to do it and that we were going into non-productive, but your ladies were correct and they showed the Ministry's law well and we showed a gesture of goodwill and gave up. We don't want citizens to get the impression that because we haven't talked about it, and since the citizens trust us very much, we don't have any objection to the traffic of intoxicating funds and the possibility of drugs, intoxicating resources, that we are appointing something. No, I don't. We even wanted to further tighten such a law, but it is to the insistence of the people of the ministry and your associates that it will be regulated by another law; there is already a federal regulation, and the question is how this community translated it into its jurisdiction. But we're in favour of even increasing the transport of seeds of these plants and also succumbing to control, inspection control and not sowing seeds of hemp and red macaque seeds, Indian hemps, so that it's known that we want to do so. We tend to meet your demands sometimes and we could formally-lawfully enter the story. The amendment committees have passed, and whether it is this or that member now, and I am talking about yesterday and a lot of future members and interventions where we are thinking and it would be polite and radical to prove something, so if another parliamentary group writes the same thing, it will come in turn and it will accept. This means that you are unnecessarily creating a relationship of such demeanor and the right of us to suspect that you are being kind to us. Of course, sometimes we can conclude by acting on boards, but we don't want to make a cut, because we feel superior in the whole story about this, no matter how much who and what mandate it takes and what's connected to that mandate. You just said that you received a certificate in 2003 about what credit Torak gave these vaccines to the world, and we have testified that your agency that you praise imported vaccines - distilled water. Please, it wasn't the Tolak. So you imported someone else's. What's the Agency for Medicinal Products doing? You remember how much resistance we had around those drug agencies - watch out, so the lab, so don't make up a new lab, don't invent a hole in a pothole, so... No, you didn't want to hear it. Now the people are being treated for everything they know, they're counterfeit drugs, they're writing, I don't know, this drug isn't this one, and I'm not making an anti-reclam for some serious drug I'm taking care of. It's just interest, motive, money, money, project, how to get to it, what to do, how to market, give this medicine, who to do more; that's the point, it's being, it's a feature. So that's going to go through this too, and the citizens are just going to suffer, because you haven't even listed the basics here, let's say, how spatially or conditionally individual health institutions function. This is what you have in Kragujevac – dialysis, sheets of holes we cover, holes like a grenade hit. Our director doesn't have enough money, he got some money, some didn't. This could also be a parliamentary question, if you will, and it doesn't have to, and you know, you've been there and they've been taking you, and I've been there, upstairs they've been patching up walls, we've been working extremely unconditionally, sick people in other people's wards...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23246	Excuse me, Mr. Poscurica, I'm going to be resented by the other MPs, at least a little bit about the amendment. I care about developing a discussion in the interests of all parties, because all parties participate in the work, assist and accept amendments, sometimes more, sometimes less, of all parties that participate in the work from the point of view of the profession, as we do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23247	I'll finish. It's usually quite general. And, everybody's social concern -- here, everybody's concern, these are my nurses and employees who have nowhere to go, 10 doctors in one room, where if the cleaning lady clears the dust, the wall falls. There's social health care. This is where patients who can have peritonitis live. Well, that's very clear. It's easy for me to fit in. I don't miss so much intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23248	With all due respect, you understand me. Does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP MilomirDunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23249	At first, I would ask you, Mr. President, for the past two days, although the whole session is irregularly and needlessly working at such a pace, a correct debate has been conducted. It doesn't say in your Rules of Procedure that there's a difference of opinion. The MPs can't honor what we're going to say. We don't agree to that. If someone doesn't respond to our explanation, if it's mechanical, to read what it says here, so mechanically, as a parrot, I say the opposite without linking it to social reality, we don't agree to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23250	Mr. Momchilov, since this is my obligation under the Rules of Procedure, of course, there is no difference of opinion. Understand, explicitly the Rules of Procedure say: in case it does not stick to the subject, and when the debate is in particular the subject is an amendment, not a law in principle. Understand that most of the MPs that exist here, of course, resent the president for why I'm not returning to the topic. I stand in your view that every amendment is an opportunity, good and important for the citizens, because of the profession and because of the party, that representatives put their speech in context, and I just asked, because I suffer pressure to be someone who respects the Rules of Procedure. The law is the same for everyone, there are no exceptions to that. Be kind, we contribute together, no part of the opinion. Just as you said, by common correctness, and I am correctly returning you to the beginning and I ask you to correctly, by sticking to this tolerance which has become an integral part of the work of this call, continue to be exposed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23251	We're on basic, general provisions, drawing attention. If no general discussion is allowed, please, what do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23252	I made it clear not what I want, but what I have to do and you stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23253	It's not for you, it's for those who resent me. It was precisely due to correctness that I avoided replicating my colleague, Maric, so I just avoided reacting to the minister's exposure, but we can't skip a few things. We are now resented here, by the way, that we are against introducing the term "health care system". No, we're just saying "Health care system organization." The health care system is for us what's written here. There are definitions. Don't invite me to the Constitution. I know what the Constitution says. I don't know all the members by heart, thank God, but the ones that matter I know. Here are those definitions, this one and this one. I'll leave that to you. You are a high-ranking official of this organization and respect the definitions of this organization. Don't call on a constitution that doesn't even think it's governed by the area of health care. Don't give that kind of notice. We don't rule out your term "system", we just say "system organization" is more appropriate, because that's what the law does. You challenged me, you said I took a partial something, ripped it out and showed it here. I wanted to spare both you and the MPs and not read the whole thing. Here is the overall: "The Council for Regulatory Reform has been delivered opinions of the University of Vojvodina Doctors, the Association of Private Doctors and Dentologists of Serbia and the Union of Doctors and Pharmaceuticals of Serbia, which show that these professional organisations are unhappy with the proposed solutions and have very concrete objections that this draft law is suffocating the private sector and that citizens who use its services are putting themselves in a position of subjugation. A particularly problematic solution is provided for in Articles 199 and 202. - supplemental work of health workers, employed by full-time health care professionals... "I won't read any more. He goes on to say, "A particular system issue that needs to be regulated is the issue of funding the work of health institutions and private practices. This matter is regulated... "I won't say what. "On these solutions, mentioned above, professional associations have significant objections, and in terms of asphyxiation of the private sector. Any solutions, the processor must carry out an analysis of their effect in terms of indicating the allocation of funds and effects that such policies will have on the development of health institutions in state property and private practice. Given the above, we thought that the explanation of the bill... "I don't want to read which one..." does not contain an analysis of the effects according to... "team and team, "although such an analysis is necessary." That's the whole thing. So someone delivered opinions, and it wasn't done according to this. That's what's true. I understand the minister, he made his proposal, he stands behind the proposal and will defend him, but this is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, directly to Prime Minister Kostunica. This is the thing that needs an answer. Not like this – it was, so it wasn't. Nothing was done by what these people say. There's more, but I won't read. I'm simply caused by this reaction that we've ripped something out of context. No, the continent is much worse than the context. Let me go back to Article 6. Article 6, again, this is a general thing, and this is a textbook thing, a document that I have just shown regulates, says the law: "The health care in the Republic is made up of health institutions and other forms of health care (hereinafter: private practice), which are established to implement and provide health care, as well as healthcare professionals, or healthcare associates who perform health care, in accordance with this law. "We have proposed shorter, simpler and, it seems to us, better: "Health services are made up of health institutions, health workers and bodies and organisations that deal with health care affairs as a professional activity. "It says here and that's a narrow definition. There's a broader definition I don't want to read, I don't want to burden you. All health care professionals make up health care. If you take and apply what is offered, then you can't place a health inspection in the health care department, and a health inspection, where you have lawyers working in the ministry, is also part of it. This second part, this broader definition absolutely includes that. So we gave a classic definition that exists everywhere, which is in the textbook of social medicine. Here, we're also giving the document that we're referring to, where we got it from. You answer in a strange way. Let me read, for the sake of citizens: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is contrary to the Public Service Act, which provides a system for the establishment of public services." What does the system of establishment of public services have to do with definition, and here you define what health care is? Is the Law on Public Services older than the profession, is it older than the World Health Organization? If so, he may have made a mistake without telling you that we have a constitution that we often don't apply, so when we need to apply it, and when we don't need it, we don't apply it. So that's how far we know to leave. Here we are now celibating, looking in a strange way, a cholastic, some foothold somewhere, which, with real life and professional opinion, has nothing to do with it. Don't do that. We're just warning you, give a clear bill, let everyone understand when they read this. Of course, it bothers you when we don't specifically talk about private practice the way you speak and how you mark it. We understand that. This is, you show the paper stronger than this, the report that spoke to this. That's what we wanted to say within this member of the law. Please don't twist what we say. We're absolutely trying to be extremely correct. You said we were to contain. We've told you that it's covered us with the last one, but it can be, we agree to diagnostics as well. Let's just say, set up one logical trail and order. It doesn't have to, it can all be twisted. I can go down on my head now and talk, there's gonna be another speech, but it's gonna be funny. Now, you're doing it. You make a comedy out of that law. I doubt what the intention is. You prescribe Croatian in the good part, you change it, you make a variable and you make it this way. I can't say he's got bad intentions, but eventually I'm gonna get to the point where he really has bad intentions. You were talking about "Torlak." Our question will be - what does the state of Serbia do to prevent destruction? Yes, the subject is, that's what the minister said and that's the subject of this debate. We are conducting a dialogue of colleagues, the Assembly is where the dialogue of opposing opinions is conducted, and if Mr. Minister hadn't mentioned it, I certainly wouldn't have said it. To avoid dialogue with the audience, I ask the chairman to allow us to work normally too. When I overstep my 15 minutes you can justifiably be angry and advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'll come out to meet you, I'll admit I was wrong, and I'll apologize. Therefore, when you listed "Torlak" and "eradiation", I don't know if it's eradicated in Kosovo completely. It was our country's action in Kosovo and Metohija. I know there have been controversial cases during the sanctions. Those border-free doctors organised that vaccination action through UNICEF. It's our territory, our country, I'm not sure that's exactly where it's eradicated, probably it is. I know the coverage wasn't exactly 100%, something like 80% is the coverage of vaccines, which is probably for conditions that rule there satisfactorily. When it comes to "Torak" our question will be – what does the state do to prevent systematic destruction in the last five years of the Torak Institute, the Galenike? It'll be a parliamentary question for us, so you know, and if we have to, we'll explain it. We have already said why we believe that this institution is being systematically destroyed, as well as a fractionation plant from the blood plasma derivatives. That'll be a parliamentary question at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23254	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23255	The President of Parliament has violated Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before that, he allowed the minister to lecture here again in some previously seen manner, to address the MPs as if we were morons, to explain to us what society, what state is, to explain how from the initiative comes to the bill. I did not react and now I am not reacting because of it, but I am reacting because of what President Markovic later tried to convince Mr Paju Momchilov not to talk about the subject, and today, to remind me, we are talking about a bill on health care in particular. That means we're talking about the amendment. Comrade Momchilov and all of us Serbian radicals speak and further explain the amendments we have submitted, in accordance with Article 141: "The search in particular is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions, with a total search time for each parliamentary group of amendments at a maximum of 15 minutes." So, in the Rules of Procedure, there is not a single word, nor in any letter provided for in which someone will explain their amendment, what they will say in the context of the interpretation of the amendments they have submitted. To remind you, the amendment is further explained, to convince the minister first of all as a representative of the government, with some further reasons, to accept the amendment. Furthermore, the amendment is explained that fellow MPs who vote would be convinced that it would be good for them to vote in favour of the amendment. Any MP who speaks of the amendment, which further explains it, takes the risk that it will not do it well enough and that the minister, or the assembly majority, will not accept the amendment. How do you use these 15 minutes? I can come out, I can stand, I can shut up for 15 minutes at this pay phone. I can talk for 15 minutes -- today is Sunday, today is Sunday, and so I'm talking for 15 minutes. The president of parliament, the chairman, has no right and must not draw attention to the MP who is talking about the amendment to speak in one way or another. I know the president's trying to be nice, so he's doing it as a well-intentioned distraction. I know it's because the MP would be distracted, to draw public attention to what the Serbian Radicals are saying for a moment, because the president, like everyone sitting here, knows that what is being said in the field of health these days, has come across exceptional support from the professional public. That's why he's trying in every way to distract himself from what's going on here. So, once again, the president has violated Article 141. He's not here. I don't expect you, Mr. Mikhailovich, to answer to me on his behalf. I ask that the Parliament in voting day plead to this member's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23256	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 7, we have the financing of health care. Article 7 defines: "The means of health care, as well as for the work and development of health services, are provided in accordance with the law. "I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, where it was given to delete that member, because the SRS's position is that the law is too widespread, with many declarative and unnecessary members, such as this one. He's a member of too much general character and basically doesn't mean anything. The government's argument, although on the Committee on Health at the vote there were four for, four against and two MPs were abstained, was not to be accepted for the reason that those members of the bill indicated that the means for implementing healthcare would be provided in accordance with the law. Since funding is at stake, I'm really taking my hat off from the G17 Plus, because they're experts on funding. A lot of projects have been done. Here, I'm going to start with the project "Assessing the cost-effectiveness of the HIV-transmission prevention program from mother to child." The project was conducted primarily by the Institute G17 Plus; research manager Mirosinka Dinkic, mother of Mr Dinkic. I'll just give a piece of what she put in her project. Most of the drugs used for antiretroviral therapy of people suffering from AIDS are our country's imports. Prices on the domestic market are far more than the prices indicated in the brochure. It's a world price. Even if we increase them 2.5 times, i.e. There's a big difference in the price of tests and drugs in our house and the price of the manufacturer. This price difference should be reassessed and organised in such a way that the benefits offered by producers in large purchases should be more advantageous. Then, by organising the procurement of tests by a direct manufacturer using the convenience of buying a large number of tests, the costs of testing could be significantly reduced. We therefore suggest that the programme be implemented, should be based on world prices. Usually experts from G17 plus world prices like to follow. If tests were to continue in Serbia according to epidemiological indications and lead the existing test and therapy price policy, which is based on prices higher than world prices, for the same period and conditions, the costs of the non-applicable programme would be 14m 359 000 335 euros for a minimum, or over 45m euros for a maximum percentage of HIV positive pregnant women. This programme requires a doctor's obligation to offer a HIV test to each pregnant woman. It is of paramount importance to establish monitoring and pregnant women who have accepted and those who have refused testing, i.e. To determine the prevalence of HIV-positive pregnant women in both groups. When it comes to this project, I'm just going to tell you, not to take up too much of your time, just some of the conclusions that have been defined in the project and the recommendations that have been made. The test of pregnant women according to epidemiological indications is nucleous. The costs of child health care go from, during their lives, to 18,514 euros in medical care and 28,216 euros in ageing costs, i.e. social costs. The application of the programme over a 10-year period would save from 8.14m euros to 27.93m euros. Only in the cost of caring for HIV-positive children could the state, by applying the programme, save between 1.4m and 4.5m euros on average. The additional benefit, based on the inclusion of children in post-school work, earnings, treated HIV-positive women, would range from 15.34m euros to 53.90m euros, etc. You have a dozen conclusions here. And all that would have been good if Mr Dinkic's mother had managed to implement the project. First of all, I am sure that the very name of the project "Assessing the cost-effectiveness of the HIV-transmission programme from mother to child" would reject any ethical committee in the world. Then we have that the Global Fund has rejected this project by Mrs Dinkic for HIV prevention and that health care has lost $5.5 million in this way. No less or less. Everyone's scared... No, Mr. Minister, everything and everything, this is funding. I said, "Article 7, quote it; funding." We need to see where we finance, where the money goes, what projects we're making, which is why these projects don't go through, and your people from your party are implementing these projects. We're not adding anything that's not true. Here, you have-- the health care lost $5.5 million, so let's see. Everyone's afraid that money will be provided for expensive tests on HIV, treating patients, antiretroviral medicines, prevention projects and everything that goes along with this vicious disease. No one lobbyed for our project this time. The ministry has been pointed to shortcomings before. The money was awarded to NGOs without a tender and the money was available to the Economic Institute, which never dealt with the HIV virus. All epidemiologists, infectologists, and patients after this news must have remained concerned, because we have a modest health budget anyway, and instead of providing extra money through the project, we lost $5.5 million. What can we draw from all this? Either the project wasn't written well or the financiers weren't satisfied that the implementation of the previous project, which we received 2.5 years ago, was about $2.8 million. I must stress, as we are constantly moving towards Europe and the United States, Serbia is among the non-classified, among the countries: Congo, Kenya, Central African Republic, Ethiopia, Nepal, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, etc. However, our Montenegrin brothers received $1.6 million in two years, or about 3 million in five years. And they did it better than we did. From the University of Southern California, where they wrote the last project, they suggested they did it and it was lobbyed for this project. Our people didn't listen, and that's why we went through this. Even the ministry defined the project as having technical shortcomings, i.e. not good mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of activities in the previous project. At the very end, when it comes to this exposure, to define the situation in Serbia; unfortunately, I have data without Kosovo and Metohija. The registered average rate of people tested for HIV infection, excluding voluntary blood donors, is 1.6 per thousand inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 1987 to 2003. The highest rate is recorded just in 2003 - 2.7 per thousand inhabitants, but remains among the lowest in Europe. Of the countries in the Central Europe region in 2002, the rate lower than five per thousand people has Albania, Macedonia, Poland and, fortunately, Serbia-Montenegro. However, it can be concluded that in Serbia, a small number of people are being tested for HIV infection, primarily due to the permanent lack of diagnostic resources, limited opportunities for free and confidential testing throughout the territory throughout the year, as well as insufficient promotion of the importance of testing. And, if Mrs Dinkic had not put anything new into this project, you have a textbook for students of the fifth year of medicine, on the 495th side you have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, where she defined what she said – screening on HIV infection in pregnancy should be universal but voluntary etc. So, absolutely nothing new. A lot of money spent and lost $5.5 million. I'll just give a few more characteristic projects that the ministry has done. We have a prenatal diagnostic project done without a tender. Another way to spend money. However, a picture of our health minister's opening conference in Belgrade looks nice. It's about the European Agency for Reconstruction. Under the project "Improvement of preventive health services", which are all projects connected to one; two components of this project have: strengthening the diagnostics and screening services, and another – development of skills for improving health and programmes. It is about improving prevention, identification and early detection of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, primarily in primary and secondary healthcare facilities, improving professional training, screening programs, etc. Interestingly, if you look at the site of this project, which was carried out by the German-French house Epos, an amount of 1.4m euros was listed. They have millions, nothing under a million, no information on the tender, no information on a project with a 2.4m-euro budget. The initial amount of 1.4 million agencies rose at the minister's request, came to 2.5 million, and a tender will be announced for these funds. When? Nobody knows that. Only information on 2.1m euros, which is exclusively intended for the purchase of equipment, has been provided. The project's presentation announced that all necessary appliances would be obtained by the end of the year, i.e. instead of one million euros for equipment, as much as 2.1m euros were made, although I have already stated the sum that the minister has promised a greater sum of 2.4m euros. We from the SRS are interested in why these appliances are purchased if, according to foreign experts, the manufacturers of the apparatus give gratis in order to use their reagents. Equipment is purchased through an international tender, in accordance with EU rules. How much will be obtained according to the design of the apparatus – one large list, who would read it all, and eventually the chairman would not allow it. There's a lot more projects, you have that dozen projects, nice projects, I don't know when and how they'll be realized. I've got a lot on the genetically modified strain G17, but I'll have to do that when we talk about another amendment. Then my esteemed fellow MPs from G17 get angry when some newspaper says "JUL of Democratic Serbia". After all these millions of euros, how can it be a different title? Then they write -- the political party G17 plus, or as many stakeholders say, citizens more often call the JUL a democratic Serbia. Their personnel are taking the lead in all places where money flows, directorial positions, primarily in international co-operation, de facto are trying to strengthen their party in this way. (Nikola Novakovic, from Place: Theme. ) The theme is funding, and I have shown an excellent example of how the G17 party is financed. We have them deployed to management posts in the economy, banking and health institutions. The relationship is precisely our health minister, who as a scientific worker and professor of the university is truly remarkable, and that's where we take off his hat, but the problem is that he obviously didn't go that way to the end, but he was directed by the needs of the party's funding to make these strong tenders work. I don't think any party group should use power to strengthen its voting base and implement a policy that is obviously not in Serbia's interest. Since it's 15 minutes out, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23258	Replica, MP Miroljub Maric, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23259	Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, we're getting lost on the subject. Our goal is to work effectively, to present to Serbian citizens exactly what new health care laws get citizens in health care. However, counterpart Cvetanovic apparently unnecessarily calls the party G17 plus, needlessly insults one mother, unnecessarily talking about what Mr. President of the Assembly just said, I am not entering into whether anyone is talking about an amendment or not, but at least he doesn't have to talk about things that have nothing to do with this law. Please, he came out to defend the amendment to Article 7 that needs to be deleted. Delete what? To wipe out the means to conduct health care, so we don't need them? What are we talking about here? By calling us... We don't want to engage in conflicts with you, we don't want to belittle your excellent information on various topics, but don't bother us here about things that have nothing to do with today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23260	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Messenger of the People, Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23261	I'm just advertising that we're not understood. My friend, don't be unwarranted. What was our intensity? Article 7 says – means to implement healthcare, as well as to work and develop health services. It's the projects that generate the development of health services. It's like that all over the world, so it's probably ours. We intervened that it was one general attitude that meant nothing, to be regulated by law. Everyone knows that in an orderly civilised country, it's governed by law, not by hiduciju. Hajducia is the opposite of the law, and then we felt that we were so aware that we knew that it was governed by the law. Watch what's wrong with this project. It is important that you have many projects, which we think are missed, where the money went, and we are just saying that if you look at the reasoning of the law, then the promoter says that it is one of the most important reasons, so it states in point 1) - the lack of money and that it needs to be reconciled, this lack, and the growing needs of every society, including this one of our own, and especially that we are in a transition where the situation is much worse. When someone says they're competing, an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the HIV transfer prevention program from mother to child... There's good manufacturing practice. These are new terms that we must adopt. There's also good clinical practice. I have a certificate for good clinical practice. I got that certificate this year in Hungary. This could never have gone away, this ethical committee would have returned immediately, and he was obliged, if we were listening to Europe, to go through an ethical committee. It's unethical to even say whether it's worth it to prevent the transfer of HIV infection from mother to child. Your colleague told you that everything he wrote here, I don't want to talk about the methodology, the methodology wouldn't go through on the other board. If it were to be done properly, one scientific project, I learned it in Europe and we are going to Europe, I am obliged to say, everything that is written there is written in the student textbook. And our reality is sad, we can't even cover these tests to the sufficient extent of our population; only 1.6% of our population is covered by HIV tests. That's a very important reason, it's one of the priorities of the World Health Organization, and it seems to you that it might be irrelevant. They're putting us in a risky country, that there's going to be an outbreak of HIV infection. Don't think this is a debate to discuss, that it's just finding... What hit us? It's not us, it's everybody else talking about HIV infection being here for 20 years, or since the HIV infection showed up, intensively working, scientific workers. My teacher, academician Vojin Sulovic, has spent his entire life giving himself the opportunity to solve these problems in an adequate manner. Now someone shows up, so with this kind of thing that devalues the pain and effort and what's based on the student textbook and this way spends the money, that's what hurts us, and then we don't get from Mr. Soros that fund that gives us $5.5 million. Why won't he give it to us now, and it was in our looks, and it was supposed to get to our country and how it would benefit us, I won't get into it. I'm finishing up, but I'm asking you to understand, there's no need to conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23262	Minister of Health Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23263	I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we will still hold one straight, broad path in today's debate, that we will not turn into a dead end, because it has happened several times, but I think we will still be able to maintain the right direction. So, several previous exhibitions mention the doing of foreigners and the opinion of partners, so I can say that the main international partners, who are partners of the Ministry of Health in the work that we are trying to do the best we can, evaluate the ultimate positive effort that has been made in the preparation of the law. Why are there public debates and are different opinions respected? Of course, not everyone always does, but they respect and build into solutions and therefore there are a number of solutions in this proposal that have found their place here precisely because of the fact that this happened during the public debate. There was also talk of superiority. Anyone who has a chance to say something behind this speaker is superior because they have a chance to address the peoples' MPs and citizens of Serbia. At one point, I was under the impression that she didn't understand the role, for example. inspections as part of the Ministry of Health, because it is then part of the government's body and participates in health care, but is not part of the health system and organisation of health institutions, but is part of the government's body. There was mention of the Tolak Institute and occasionally hats and hats. Whoever has a hat, before Torlak, needs that hat to be removed, and who does not bow without it, because Serbia back 50 years has no child paralysis, no diphtheria, no big cough for years, tetanus only affects those who have not been vaccinated, and there are few and mostly those who have come with their own responsibility not to be vaccinated after severe injuries. So, most of the infectious diseases have been eradicated in this country or suppressed precisely because of the fact that there is one of the 10 large manufacturers in the world of vaccines and that is the Torak Institute. What does the state do for systematic recovery and improvement? If there are any parliamentary questions, of course we will answer, as well as any other which will arrive to the Ministry of Health. Article 7 and what is proposed by the amendment is, in fact, a definition of the general provision. Every law in the legal system must show each of us, as a citizen, justice, must enlighten us in part and frighten us, therefore there are criminal provisions and therefore the orderly society differs from the unsettled and the chaos. Therefore, funding in this respect is a financing of general interest. The general interest is defined in this law and in the health insurance law and it is clear, the state takes care of programmes that have a general interest. There's been a lot of talk here about projects. Each project serves to be sustainable in one system over the longer term. One HIV-related analysis is mentioned. It would be good to respect an institution that organises such an analysis, called UNICEF. It's one of the most precious agencies of the United Nations, and if she does something, that makes sense. Of course it makes sense before introducing each procedure to do an analysis of the cost of efficiency, how much effect is given for this investment, in order to make the resources available in health care responsibly. It is true that for years we have been fighting HIV, but it is also true that for the first time last year, Serbia has the first four babies that were born without HIV, they are not HIV positive, and they are born by HIV positive mothers who had never known about it before, but have learned about the project of confidential and voluntary testing. A project that supports our efforts until the end of 2006. The project of support and assistance is now under way by the end of 2006. Our Montenegrin brothers received this project for the period 2007-2010 because they did not get it in this first period. There is no other European country that has received immediate support twice, except for Russia, which has an epidemic like the Eastern European country with a major HIV problem. No other country has been given twice in a row. Therefore, our partnership with international organisations is a partnership, does not involve tutorship, no one is leading you by the hand. This country needs to start helping others as soon as possible and should not rely solely on support, help, and gifts. This health system through general interest programmes provides confidential and voluntary testing for all 69,000 pregnant women in 2006. How difficult it is to know the well - known gynecologists involved in maternity care, since it is important to devote time to pregnant women, confidentially and voluntarily make a decision on testing. It is a great effort, and during this project a few years back, it has been done in a way that we can train ourselves not to be a project, but to be a daily practice, so when someone has a wife, a sister, a friend who is pregnant, it is a perfectly normal thing to be provided for testing and it becomes a sustainable thing in Serbia's health system, and therefore this member is really important. It was about projects, about buying, about prevention, about waving news articles. I said last week the World Health Organization with the European Agency for Reconstruction organised an analysis of the importance of EU support to Serbia's health for the past five years. In that analysis, there are many more reasons for contentment. The one who gives you help and how you know how to control how that help is spent on the ground. Information is available to everyone in different ways. Of course, when waving newspaper texts, then trying to pick up fog and throw dust, but that's not necessary because there are ways of real information. Again, I ask you to stay on the right path, not to turn into a dead end, and then we will really have a productive debate, which can be a dialogue on concrete problems, even if the amendment says - is deleted. You explain why you think it should be deleted, and I explain why I don't think it should, and we'll explain it more quickly and more clearly to the citizens who are watching us around noon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23264	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23265	Dear colleagues and colleagues, reporting for replica. Mr. Minister, I agree it's good to be self-critical. You probably figured out somewhere that you went to a dead end, so you said it here. That's not how I said it when you first spoke, and don't qualify our presentations in that way either. I can keep quiet here, I can talk about something that might be wrong, you can argue with it, but don't twist the thesis. Don't hide behind UNICEF's authority. What's our basic grudge? That we have one project that is unethically conceived - the cost-effectiveness of preventing the transfer of HIV from mother to child. Well, that's not a question at all. Second, a methodology that's wrong. Third, the conclusions in the textbook. You said the costs should be done. Not in college, but I'll refer you to another gynecology textbook, one of the most significant textbooks that we have, Gabiev, where exactly the costs are to the dollar. Dear fellow, you don't go all over the world to walk around to make sure the sky is blue. There's something that's the experience of earlier generations, there's something that's already been reverberated. And what's given as a result of that project, don't let us read to you, in bold letters -- that's where traders take a lot of money for medicine, let's cut the price, and we need to do a universal test. That's what we tell students. Don't let those be the conclusions of the project. We're just saying a lot of these projects that the world says are good -- let us bow, too, to congratulate. Don't give away invisible men from the shadows. Give us a project to transfuse the executioner's blood, names, budget. Of course, the evaluation. So, we just intervene, don't twist our words, we have no evil intentions, but we have to point to something like this. This profession has long known. You're saying it's the first time that's been achieved right now for four babies. It's because of 20 years of intensive labor, not because of the project, and you provide universal testing for pregnant women, give money. We insist on it, but we tell our pregnant women – go and pay. Mr. Minister, we don't have the money for those tests. It's a controversial coincidence. The minister yells we have, and then he tells the citizens that public spending has to be fucked, and then he says he has to be taken from the citizens. Great. You fuck those tender matrimonials, then you fuck somewhere else. I told you, which gives you three million dollars to call a drug broker's company a cure, which you give too much money for raw materials, for packing drugs at Galenica. That's where you fuck. In previous exhibitions, we gave you three examples of where you can fuck, so we'd have money for prosthetics, we wouldn't have waiting lists. That's it, I'm out of time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23266	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title of Chapter II above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljković. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23267	It is a chapter bearing the title - social concern for the health of the population, and I have suggested that this chapter be titled - the role of the state in providing health care. It's not just a matter of social, state-of-the-art, the minister explained to us that the concept of society is a much wider concept than the state. It turns out that we've invested these amendments because we don't know the difference between the state and society, and it's precisely because we know the difference. The fact that society is not only a broader concept, it's an abstract concept. It is not approximately legal to prescribe what society should do, but what is the role of the state, and in the field of health care it is to adopt a health care strategy, i.e. policy and protection, laws, etc. What has already been said in principle by previous SRS MPs, this law suffers from overexpansion, especially in these introductory chapters. The fact that I have proposed deleting Article 8 does not mean that I consider everything that article 8 prescribes to be unnecessary. It is about too high, for what is stated in Article 2(2) is about what is then widely explained in the next 10 members in this second chapter. So there are these chapters -- social care for health at the level of the Republic, at the level of AP, municipalities, cities, employers, individuals, etc. The law wouldn't lose anything to quality, it wouldn't lose to some precision, but it would be shorter and everything that's written in these ten members is more like, let's just say, one textbook of social medicine. It's not unnecessary knowledge, it's not unnecessary facts, but we don't think that, in writing, it's necessary for them to have a place in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23268	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23269	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on health care. I ask that Section 10 of Section 2 of the word "social" be replaced by the word "state", and after the word "containment and adoption" the word "and enforcement" is added. An explanation – the SRS' view is that the state should be responsible for implementing the plans adopted. You put the word "social" into this law; it's a bad association, Mr. Minister. We've had social enterprises in the past, and we still have them, not privatized, these social enterprises were the straw of Alibe's, or the source of evil, robbery and crime. The word itself is somehow inaccessible in this law. You just said you were looking for concrete things. Listen to me carefully, I will take it out, because I represent the southern Serbia, or the southern Serbia area which is the current government, the current state has written off as if it were not part of Serbia. Article 13(1) states that the AP, i.e. the municipality, provides funds for the implementation of social health care from its budget and that they determine the prices of individual services. Article 94 states that the home of health is a health institution where primary health care is performed and that the health home is founded by a municipality, or city. I think, Mr. Minister, you should listen, because these are specific problems. I'm giving you a concrete problem that is created after this law is passed. I ask you, what will happen to the homes of health in poor, undeveloped border municipalities such as the municipality of Trgovište in southern Serbia? The Municipality of Trgovište has 7,000 inhabitants, the borderless underdeveloped municipality has a home of health... Mr. Minister, listen to me, you're going over there, you're not paying attention, you're not interested. The Department of Health at the Shop has 70 workers. The terrain is mountain-mounted, working conditions are difficult. We only have one field vehicle, and that's not enough, because the population mostly, about 90%, is a nursing household. The houses are scattered on the hills. The health care staff provides medical services by house, no stationary, goes to home treatment. With the great effort of hikers 10 or 15 miles [10 or 15 km] to help people, especially during these winter periods, these are just superhuman efforts. Their salaries are low, and the working conditions are very difficult, but health care workers in the Shop should be given recognition, commending them for their work in abnormal conditions. The farthest village, listen to me, Mr. Minister, from the medical center in Vranj is 80 kilometers away. Can you imagine the situation? The stationary doesn't exist, the dental equipment is malfunctioning, it's doing nothing. A man has to go 80 kilometers to fix his tooth. I propose that the minister accept this: that the state of Serbia help the House of Health in the Shop, open a maternity home and a stationary and obtain dental equipment, as well as a field sanitary vehicle. Last year you promised us, you told us about this year, and where you said there's nothing left. You said - The trade and the Serbian Black people get it this year, but it's not there, it's not obtained. By the end of the year? You will leave power by the end of the year. We really need to make the conditions possible and help this troubled people. If this country doesn't, the young people are leaving faster and faster, they're out of business, huge territory remains empty. I'm warning the state, the government, you're a representative of the government, that under emergency he's responding to this. I propose that the health home of the Shop be given a maternity home and a stationary and financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, given that local self-government does not have the money to finance the home of health. It will be a major problem not only for the Shop, but also for poor border municipalities, it will be a big problem, because six months of local self-government has not received a salary. Listen now, you have provided for Article 96(2), but you did not predict it well, find Article 96 of Item 2 – extremely... Please listen to me, laugh, for you this is unserious, and for this people down there it is to be or not to be, because people die every day. I want you to answer me as soon as I'm done. Article 96 paragraph 2: "Extremely, in areas with specific needs of providing health care to the public, where traffic and geographical conditions justify this, in accordance with the plan of the network, a hospital and a stationary for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic diseases can be organised in the home of health. "This attitude to use and to add more to finance from the state budget. Guys, it's a misery down there, come and visit the City of Commerce. I'll tell you how to handle it. The Ristor knows where he is, turn left, 35 kilometers southeast, and I believe you don't know where the City of Commerce is. If I'm lying, make sure I'm not lying. I want to make one case. Last fall, October of the month, I was picking apples in my orchard and a woman, a neighbor in the 1970s, fainted. I'm calling the health center, they've got a field vehicle, and it went out there on the field. I held that woman in my arms for four hours, and by profession, I'm a vet, I know basic first aid, I saved my wife. It's really a circus, a mess and a shame. If there's no money, tax these new rich people. I don't use the term tycoon, and in these five years you've introduced, by passing these laws, more terms than the Turks have left us in 500 years. You are introducing some terms that are unacceptable to the Serbian people. We have a great Serbian dictionary. I'd like Mr. Secretary to make a statement about my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23270	The word has a health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23271	The style is not very common, that we say immediately, one way or the other, but these are issues that are regulated, of course, by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I will appreciate that, first of all, for reasons of collegiation and for the sake of good education. If the law is spoken of, it would be appropriate to read, under III – Realising general interest in health care. Every word is Serbian: realisation is when something is realized; it is general when it is not my interest or someone's or group, but it is general, everyone's interest; it is of interest to the general interest; it is health when it comes to health; protection is when something is protected. It says, point 18) – participation in the provision of means of equalising the conditions for equalisation of health care throughout the territory of the Republic, especially at the primary level of health care in municipalities with unfavourable demographic characteristics and underdeveloped municipalities, in line with priorities. So, the law gives room to keep an eye on, to provide the means to achieve health care evenly, whether it's Trade or it's Bosilegrad, or it's Kladovo, or it's Negotin, or it's Loznica, or it's Shabac, or it's Kikinda, or it's Northern Back, or it's Bujanovac, Presevo, regardless. So that's what the law says. As far as the specific issue is concerned, the budget to be adopted is neither the government's budget nor the Assembly's budget, the budget is the Republic of Serbia and it is, of course, a serious category, and it was made by your decision in the Serbian Parliament for 2005, on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Ministry of Health were very carefully planned. One of the important priorities, following the purchase of the first 150 vehicles last year, which were divided and can be seen from north to south, from east to west, has already been conducted half this year by a public tender for the purchase of a large number of vehicles and it has been completed. It's precisely this month that the distribution of the first part of those vehicles begins, I mean a total of 15, as agreed with the delivery guy. One of those vehicles is also for this underdeveloped part that has problems and has one field vehicle. And you as a veterinarian know very well, sometimes you can get to all sides, sometimes you just can't at one point in both places when it happens, which is why you need to provide. Therefore, one vehicle is worth the citizens of the Shop. And, we are still in 2005, regardless of your point, at the end of the sentence, which is not the most convenient and is not an honorary one, and that the budget will be adopted again, because that budget is not the government's budget, it is not the Parliament's budget; it is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of those who are now in part following our presentations, weigh them and the prices and know very well what they say and what is between the lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23272	The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23273	The minister laughs, he's very happy, he's achieved, he told the sister-in-law that he's been watching him at 12.10 hours, because he just said at 11.55 a.m. that we're now the most visible of about 12.00 hours. Then he ran out here and changed his style; yesterday and the day before yesterday he was sitting here and when the working day is over, the MPs leave the hall, then he leaves, the camera holds only a pay phone and the minister holds a tirad for an hour. He's trying to establish a dialogue today, but, Minister, you obviously don't know that. First, you should have read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as it applies to you. It was supposed to be done by the chairman, currently Mr. Mihailovic. He violated Article 104 by which the MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. As far as the MPs are concerned, so does the ministers. You have injured the dignity of the National Assembly by insulting fellow MP Dragoslav Milkovic. If he's read the law, isn't he, he's a People's Messenger and that's his business. You, Minister, you had to read the law, and you didn't read it. You've gathered here around you... And you're the only one laughing, and you've got something to laugh about. You've gathered here and held this people for three days, as the MP makes some remarks to you, you call faster for them to tell you, one of them tells you what it is, because you have no idea what it says in this law that you represent us here. You don't turn your head, ma'am, you're in here like a cowboy and we don't know who you are. You walked around the congregation, which you must not afford, and yet you look at me and laugh at me. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to shut this individual down right now, or throw him out of here, because he can't look me in the eye and tell me this is the way he is, and he's showing his rudeness. Shame on you. Both you and whoever brought you here. Madam Radeta, please... Sir, when I'm done, you'll say, Mr. Mihailovic, I insist that this individual leave this Parliament at the moment because her presence and behaviour, from the moment she entered and walked through this hall, offends the dignity of the National Assembly. You, Minister, since you're reacting like this now that you like to respond to the comments of the MPs, I don't know why you didn't come out yesterday when we called you several times. Try now, jump after me, and come out for this pay phone, as you just jumped a little while ago, explain what with 300,000 dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget back in 2002, when you were the minister you used; you received funds from the grant for the transfusion service, which you are surprised, you sat here yesterday, I read you paper, you were told by two other colleagues from the SRS. Now you wonder as if you've fallen from Mars. Answer such questions, Mr. Minister, don't act smart now and explain to the MP what the budget is, what the bill is, etc. We know that well. We also know where those 300 million dinars went in 2002 from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Come out, jump hard and explain here to the citizens why you are and where you spent 300 million from the budget you stole, and that's a robbery and that's what you go to jail for. You and the rest of your colleagues are going to jail. You were just talking about taking off your hat, the hat on your head. You didn't put a sock on your head instead of your hat, but apparently, in the same manner, you rob Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23274	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you were supposed to educate Mr. Minister principally when you invited him to the session. You haven't read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Minister. If you had read it, you would have come from Article 1. As you just said to us, as if we were in a retarded school, God forbid, what is a general decree, what is this, what is that? You've started talking to us in a way that's inappropriate to one intellectual above all, let alone a minister. You're talking to the people's representatives. You said that anyone who comes out for this pay phone is superior to the others, because they can say something. He's not superior and I don't feel that way at all. For ten years, I've been a folk MP, some people are here more, some less, absolutely identifying myself with needs, and with the feelings of citizens who are abandoned, depressed, and, above all, patients who have no one to turn to today and are looking for a minimum of health care. We'll talk about that later on in the amendments. Article 1 precisely defines the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament. You're in your own one today, I'd say a slightly complicated manner, let me, because the assembly speaker is a place where I can give both political and any other grades, try to give myself a superior role compared to the national representatives. You must know, from the moment you enter this door, that it is MPs who are certainly above the Government of the Republic of Serbia and each minister individually, and also you with such manners and with such complexes that you obviously have and show everywhere and in every place. I need to remind you of an incident. A month and a half ago, a few hours after that I learned about it, on the Health Committee, you told a top expert, a regular professor of the university, my distinguished colleague, Professor Milety Poscurici, again in his elaborate manner, that he was making a circus of the Committee and the way he spoke to you was inappropriate to the Committee and the subject you're discussing. That's what you tell a man who's made a multiple contribution to health care, much bigger than you can dream and even try to do in the field of health. If you are talking to your colleagues in the profession, then what should we expect, and obviously you have such complexes and you should have experts in the area to deal with you, from this particular branch of medicine, what to expect from colleague Milkovic, whom you finally told that vehicle will arrive by the end of the financial year, because we are still in 2005. Yes, and we thought we were in the 19th century! You tell us what the date is today, where we are the year, and that's how you communicate with us. Now a rewarding question for you, Mr. Minister, since you are so full of yourself. Imagine you're in that Millionaire show, so that's for the lowest rock, to get to that safe amount, guaranteed. One question for you: how many kilometers from Belgrade to the Shop? If you've ever gone to the Shop in your life, you should get the maximum amount of Millionaire quiz, because only millions of people in your head, and you're telling a man who's an honest man, who's seen there from his profession and who knows that in the Shop, in which I first went with Professor Seselj 11 years ago, absolutely nothing has changed until today, not in the field of health, not in the area of industry. Nothing's changed, no matter how many times I go there. (President: Time.) Mr. Minister, you cannot come in such a way, especially on Sunday, to treat your complexes in front of MPs. Here you are, somewhere else, who wants to put up with you, we will not put up with you, neither I personally, nor the distinguished fellow Serbian radicals, nor anyone else, where you will do such a ossion. It's not the first time. I've been called by your colleagues who have had such situations, situations at the edge of incidents, because of your address to them and to the Ministry of Health and at various other meetings, people will no longer suffer you. Ma'am, you close your mouth a little, 'cause you're making so much noise and stuff like that, it's really amazing. First of all, you shouldn't be in the first bench at all. You can't sit there, you can only be representatives of the government. If the chairman and secretary were to take care of it, that's what it would be. You can't make it up in the National Assembly. Go to the elections, run, and say something if the people choose you. You can't throw it at me. That's the way it is, Mr. Minister. Speaking of these 156 vehicles, I just got word that all the vehicles are radio-free and no heating. Someone robbed radios along the way, there's no heating anywhere, went to some extra service in Leskovac. And so this non-existent vehicle, if it ever comes to the Shop, I'm 100% sure it'll come without heat and no radio, who knows what else, what'll anyone rob on the way. It's a far-reaching trade. Award question for you – how many kilometers?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23276	I ask all present in the O.R. to behave politely and treat each other with respect. That is what I ask the representatives of the ministry and the MPs and that we really return to the agenda and conduct a constructive dialogue. Mr. Homan has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23277	Mr. Chairman, I ask you and anyone who chaires this assembly to make sure that those who call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure are not allowed to violate that Rules of Procedure on their own. They do not have the right to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in this invitation, the same rules of procedure are so harshly disrupted. In addition, those who talk about complexes must first look themselves in the mirror, so if they are already complicated, they must not talk about the complexes of others. Have them take care of it for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23278	Please act on this advice I just told you. We need to get back to work and maintain the dignity of this congregation. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vukosav Tomašević submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23279	Hello, Mrs. Simic, welcome to parliament. Professor Simic of the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, I think he is a deputy or assistant minister of health. So, I tell her, welcome. What we need to do is deal with this law. I'll draw attention to Mr. Minister, please be careful how you treat the MPs of the SRS and the others present in the O.R. Just remember that the bearer of the highest sovereignty is the legislative authority. Let me make that clear. Don't from the position of arrogance and height to demean our exposure, which will sometimes be ignorant, some time and wrong, but you have no right to mock us here, and we have a duty to criticize you. Be aware of that. And I'm asking you the same thing, if you throw this team here, and you come into dialogue with us, I'm telling you openly that we're not going to react to it, but we're warning that it's being set up and that this is one plan that needs to lead to deconcentration, to the mitigation of what we want to talk about, and it certainly won't end well. It won't end well in the congregation, and believe it won't for you either. You've allowed yourself on many occasions to teach and teach us. Let me just say it's not right that you're doing it. You told me how the means, the pyramids should look and what the primary health care should look like. Here's the World Bank document, you read what the funds should look like. Well, they can look different. There are even unsettled systems. That's what you claim to be a pay phone here. I haven't replicated, I won't, and I won't, and you're twisting some things and you want to introduce us as ignorant people. I told you, behind everything we say are the top experts we've been consulting, we've been asking, because we didn't know and we don't know everything. We'll never say to ourselves that we're the only ones who are right and all that we know, and you with your hard-core attitude, by refusing all of our amendments, you're just proving it. Whoever says he's the only one who's right isn't a Democrats. On the other hand, what my colleagues are telling you, if anyone reaches out for financial power and political power, it goes through tyranny. That's what Friedman, the Nobel laureate, read it, too. We are witnesses of such events in this society, and then you people object to us for pointing out this. Let me go back to the subject of exposure now, and that's Article 11. In fact, Article 11, he's pretty busy, and I'm not gonna read him in time. In this article we intervene, because it's about social care and it defines what social care would be and what this social care is all about. We say "state." Why? We want to locate a clear responsibility. I agree that there are concepts of communists dressed in other clothes and clothing. I agree that it may be a philosophical concept that the law does not tolerate, because we are a capitalist state today in transition, which goes into the capitalist system. I'm telling you right here, if it's a public concern, that's probably what the state is going to cover with probably 100% of the money, if I can interpret it one free way, and you're going to correct me if that's not the case, but you're going to be in contradiction with the law that we discussed the day before, about the finances. You're saying faces over 65 are a matter of social concern. If it's social, as you say, and we say state interest in protecting those faces, how did you get them out of 100% protection? We suggested you go to 70 years if you didn't have the money, but you didn't accept it, you wouldn't accept it and make fun of us. Next, you say - diseases of greater socio-medical significance. It's okay, they're diseases, but in point 5, you say -- people who are suffering from HIV infection or other infectious diseases that are identified by a special law governing the area of protection of the population from infectious diseases. About 70 diseases are listed there. Dear colleague, we intervened, we say that what the law covered is not all diseases of social importance and should not be covered by this social concern, as you say. Of course, you refuse to do that, in a manner of arrogance, and to use perhaps a stronger word, insolence, and to honor us that we are not right here. Okay, we're wrong. It's a strange provision of yours - the injured or injured persons in connection with the provision of emergency medical attention. What kind of verbalism is that? What is the spirit of Serbian? Are you telling me it's a legal formulation, so it has to? No, it's a rogue formulation and I'm just pointing to it. The last point is said: "The government of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Government) regulates the content and scope, manner and procedure, as well as the conditions for achieving the health care of the person referred to in Article 2, if the law is not otherwise arranged. "Then what will the law do if the government is going to regulate? What are you up to here, three hundred members, letting the government determine? The law needs to determine that. Since it's already such an extensive law, it needs to be arranged. What does the Government have in particular and clever to say – scale, way, procedures, conditions for achieving health care; are you saying that you are not capable of doing so, that you cannot do so with the expert teams and commissions you will have? And that's one of the remarks we put here for you. Now we have to connect, someone will resent what I'm doing, but it insists that you gave broad rights and powers in that other law based on this, although you weren't consistent either, you threw out a category of old, and that's why it's no longer a vulnerabilities category, and that's something that's inadmissible. Old people are vulnerabilities, they have to have, at 65 or 70 years old, 100% protection, and you do different. You've done this bear a favor to yourself that you won't be able to cover it all. When you put all the infectious diseases in there, I don't want to read these other diseases that aren't of socio-medical importance, there's no need. What's your basic problem? The main problem is you don't have a clear health policy. You say -- what Djindjic's government is, and I insist on showing you what the World Bank said: "Serbian government does not have a credible, coherent strategy and action plan to streamline, restructure and re-orient the health care system towards improving quality and equal accessibility of conditions and towards opening up issues of the most important current and threatening health problems." It's a World Bank document. What you're calling for is no good. We're not saying it's wrong because the World Bank told you this, but we're saying that we're not the only ones blinded and that we're not the only fools living here and making a circus out of parliament. No, that's what professional services tell you, the ones that give you money, the ones that you share money with. Our main problem is that you have not defined that policy through two points – the biological preservation of the integrity of the nation, so the biological integrity of the nation, and social protection, did not come from that. You're a senior official of the World Health Organization. You should have followed the World Health Organization's programmes and recommendations that are given for a certain period of time, and then you align our health policy plans and programmes with that. That health policy must be brought and verified here. When it's brought here and verified, it'll be binding on everything. When that happens, then the government and your ministry can bring a strategy, and you've foreseen this law that the Assembly is bringing a strategy. Then why are you laughing at our fellow Members when they're making some points about how this body should bring strategy? We're a collective organ of the people. We think and make laws, but we don't have professional services. You have professional services, and you have to locate them where professional services are, where there are resources for that, you did it backwards, Mr. Minister. So when this is passed, then the laws can follow and then we can have quality laws and then this debate would be a cultured debate, it would be a parliamentary debate as it should be in parliament. But this circus that you're generating, and then you attribute to us that we're dealing with circusism, it's not like this Parliament, and it's not like you. We're being pretty serious. We may not be smart enough, for sure, but we've put all our effort and effort into it. We are part of this people, part of a wide circle of people. Please, I don't mind throwing. I said we'd react. A colleague probably threw something well on purpose, but I don't know what. If you want, say it loud, no problem. My colleagues tell me nothing, but we're doctors, so we'll understand. What do I mean? We had a wonderful opportunity now, by passing system laws, to restructure our health care service, to achieve the goals set at the very beginning of the reasoning given by the minister. We didn't do that. We didn't bring it the right way, did we, these solutions, what we need to do? We don't have a good retardal system. We call for a division of primary, secondary and tertiary protection, and we rarely refer to that primary protection when we look at the financial structure. So, in finance, there's far more to being singled out for secondary and tertiary protection. It's focused on the operating rooms, on the scanners, on that, and the primary one is thrown into the seal, and it's experiencing today in our system, the way it is, and I believe it won't be in the future, the black days. This, Minister, also means the division of how funding should be distributed in the territorial system, according to the World Bank in 1993, and thus teaches those you sent to seminars, so it educates them that this should be the distribution of funds. Let me finish now, it wasn't done right. If you'd done the same thing by the intensities, some others, and some other documents... Not to say we didn't even make the document we were supposed to make, and I wonder why you haven't done it in five years, colleagues from DOS. You know that "Health for All in the 21st century", the World Health Organization document, obliged you to bring that document to our country. Why didn't you do it? Explain it to the people. Let's see, maybe it's objective circumstances. We'll understand. That's why. What I'm finally trying to say is, believe me, you're also using strange terms. We're really caught. You say – thoughtful decentralisation. Well, what does that look like? You're saying you're conducting thoughtful decentralisation? I know what you mean. You were going to say, balanced. Guys, every decentralisation is thoughtful. What do you think, when someone else wants another model, and there are other models, it's not thoughtful? What gives you the right to speak like that? What's that new word for you? So you're the only one who thinks it's thoughtful. When the second model is offered, it's not thoughtful. Use the right terms, talk about balanced, so we don't mind. So, a bunch of stuff. Why did that happen? Because you overwrite others and then you frigate other documents. I also believe that they've been slaughtering you for a while, that you're in some sort of weather tea, too, so you're working in an unquality way. Only so much, and I think we will be able to continue to work normally on these amendments, as the president, the chairman, said, is not the president of the assembly here, with a higher degree of tolerance. We Serbian radicals will not fight back unless we are challenged. If you challenge us, we will react. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23280	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. The next one will have a word... I'm sorry, by amendment, just to announce. Be nice. A little patience. The next one will have the words of Amendment Proposer Vukosav Tomasevic. The chairman informed me that he had applied first. Then, on the same amendment, MP Maric. I understand there are different tones of anxiety and I beg you, for self-respect, please, everyone, let me know how to conduct the session. The tensions are high. Many who are not representatives of the People's Will, unlike you MPs, are, of course, trying in different ways that the fact that you all are responsible, you represent your views, you are trying for them to fight each other, either from the point of view of one party position or opposition... Of course they want to exploit and create incredible tensions, because they are aware that tomorrow they will decide on the budget of the Serbian state. And, of course, we would like that issue, regardless of how people vote, the parties decide how they will vote, but many who do not represent the people's will in all their power try to bring anxiety. You won't give it up, of course, and I'm ready to repeat it every time. That's why I warned each other. So, you're able to, working both Saturdays and Sundays, present your views to each other and I ask you to continue in that sense, to be dignified. Here you go, Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I left the hall for a moment, just as the chairman, Mr. Mihailovic, called me and read my amendment. Since the debate is still on the same article, I want to take the opportunity to inform you that I am withdrawing the amendment that I submitted to Article 11 of this Act. Namely, these members identify categories of citizens, i.e. categories of the population covered by health care. I asked for this list to be extended by health care covering monks and nuns. The minister and the government accepted my amendment, but it was necessary to carry out a legal order. For this reason, the government has given its amendment to which this is legally precise. My proposal has been accepted essentially. That is why I am withdrawing this amendment, and I thank Mr. Minister and Government for having the understanding of my proposal and for making my proposal an integral part of this law. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23282	Thank you, Mr. Tomasevic. Thank you and for your tolerance not to announce this in advance, so you have made it possible to put forward views on this amendment. We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23283	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there was no need for the President of the Assembly here, as a peacemaker, to present here Marty Ahtisaari in the Assembly, to talk about some reconciliation, some tolerance. Simply, we Serbian radicals today continue what we started yesterday. We're discussing very important segments of social life. We are discussing proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which after our attacks yesterday, and will likely be so today, unfortunately, quite frightened Serbian citizens. They were scared because every one of your so-called. The reform hit more for Serbian citizens, starting with a reduction, and abolishing pensions, through the abolition of social security in certain segments, and today we have health insurance; this is something that is really worrying and scaring Serbian citizens. Our comments and discussions yesterday sparked positive reactions from both the professional public and the citizens of Serbia. There is certainly anxiety in this parliament because of these reactions, but not in the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party. We have no reason to be nervous and you know well that we accept, that is, work if we need to work 24 hours uninterrupted. And we never show that we are bored, nor that it is difficult for us, because we are doing our job exactly as we promise Serbian citizens in some election campaign. That's how we behave, and that's how we're gonna keep doing it. When I spoke yesterday, Minister, about the case of the Earth Hospital, you remember that examination in the private office by the doctor of the Zemun hospital, until I saw the minister, I heard yesterday in the neighborhood when I came back for another information. One of my neighbors says, "That's what you said. It is true, but similar things happen in the House of Health on Schiller Street in Zemun. "In the House of Health, Schiller's in Zemun. He says, there's an ophthalmological examination of children doing a doctor and he's finding out what it is, but he says -- I can't do it here until the end of the day, we don't have certain instruments here to definitely establish a diagnosis, but you need to go to Gardening Street, it's across the street from the park, a big Zemun park. There you go with the child you brought in for a checkup, wait 15 minutes, as long as it takes that lady to get out of Rade Končar Street to Vrtlarska in Zemun, and that same woman, that doctor, to complete the examination, establish a final diagnosis. So, without any additional instruments, because she has already done everything in the health care home with instruments and other devices and equipment bought by Serbian radicals in the home of health in 1998 and 1999, when we equipped and equipped the health home in Schiller, so she is one of the most equipped health homes in Belgrade. That's the lady the doctor at the health department tells her colleagues that no one should object to her, because she's in good contact with the health minister. I'm not saying this, they say, and here's all the elements I gave you, check it out, see what it's about. Another part of our discussion yesterday attracted the public's attention. People also asked me this morning – is it possible what we heard yesterday, what you radicals are saying, is it possible that we can't use medical services for our money the way we want it and that we can't choose doctors? I tell the citizens – yes, such a law provides for you by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, such a law is likely to be passed by the assembly majority. So, for your money, you can choose a hairdresser, a tailor, a shoemaker, you can choose anything for your money, but you can't choose a doctor for your money, but you get a doctor to get out of your hat there. Whether you can establish a certain contact with him, whether you will walk away from a doctor who has been following you for years, that no one cares anymore, as the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about the health of citizens, about the lives of citizens, about the standard of citizens at all, and you show it from day to day, from law to law. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. A bill of this law, by asking you to delete, to change this rogue title, which no one lives understands. This title is proof to me, Minister, that you didn't read the law, what I just told you. I just can't believe you wouldn't notice this, you're a written, educated man, so you don't miss the title above the member being – Social Care for Health at the employer's level. What does that mean, does anyone understand? Why such a complicated formulation when it could simply be said exactly as I proposed with the amendment – the employer's obligations. Since it is a health care law, then it is perfectly normal for the address – the employer's obligations to apply to obligations in the field of health care. You like it that way, because you have one problem with your services, not just your ministry, but all the services, the ministries. Of course, I'm not going to say anything bad about people employed by the ministry, because the ministry is solely responsible for the minister's work, but what are you doing? You have three associates here. You said one thing - here is the law from Croatia, from Slovenia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina and each one from its own perspective to make some kind of proposal; what you explained today, as the bill comes into play, I now explain to you how you come to the bill. Then normally those women, each reads that law that you gave them, and then one conglomerate is made out of those three, four, five laws, depending on how many laws you consult and then we have a text that is primarily completely incomprehensible. Then we have laws that have hundreds of members and hundreds of sides, as if it were the most important, as if this could not be done in many fewer members, but clear, concise, precise, who are clear to anyone who reads the law. You hear that from me every time I go out for a pay phone and you'll listen to it all the time, and you and all the ministers. I'm a lawyer, and I want to comment as a lawyer on this and other bill proposals. That professional part is spoken by fellow professors doctors who really know it. So, it's unacceptable for you to use this kind of new word to "adorn" the text of the law, and that absolutely means nothing, it's just a mess. Inaccuracy is a feature of all your laws, inaccuracy, generality, something we cannot accept. When I spoke of an amendment yesterday, I said that I did not object to you for saying that the answer why you did not accept one of my amendments is the same as any previous answer, because it was similar amendments, but today I very much resent you, Minister, what you say is that the amendment I submitted is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments submitted by Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic to Article 14. It's a bill of law. I really don't have any touch points, or my amendment to these two colleagues. If you have read the amendments of Mehe Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic and my amendment, then you should have noticed that they are not at all the same reasons why we have intervened, they are the same as they are, and we from the SRS as we intervened. It's not even the same wording as the amendment. Do not underestimate the intelligence of neither the MPs nor the citizens of Serbia. I guess you've made sure we're doing a lot of good work, reading every word and every word between the lines, which you don't think can be read. Don't play with us like this anymore. Be serious, Minister, because that's the least you can do when you're in this House. I don't insist, nor do I expect you to accept any of our amendments. One part of it you won't do because it's unacceptable to you, it's some concept in your heads, that something suggested by Serbian radicals can fit into what you're doing. On the other hand, it is clear that you have your concept, which is completely different from the concept and approaches the solution to this problem that the SRS has. Of course, we have no dilemmas, no problems. We understand that, but don't act like you think we don't understand it, so then you say that Article 14. Of course we don't think the same thing, and I suppose you'll hear it now when colleague Meho Omerovic explains his amendment. I urge you to accept this amendment, remove this rogue title and place at least a normal title, even if they had an abnormal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23284	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerovic submitted together to the title above Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic. Correction works, are often accepted, not in the same, and the amendment of all parties responsible for participating in parliament's work. We had examples yesterday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, she's right, she's a colleague of the Witch of Radeta, and I will always fight for a different opinion, and that is the essence of democracy and parliamentaryism. The essence of the amendments that Ljiljana Nestorovic and I have submitted on behalf of the SDP is that the title above article 15, which reads: "Social Care for individual health" is changed and that it reads "The Care for Human Health and Citizens". Therefore, it is our proposal for an amendment and I will try literally to continue to explain for this amendment that has something to do with what we have submitted to some previous members. In response, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in response to our last amendment concerning the terminology and replacement of the social for the state and in this amendment, provides a very interesting one, even when this Article 15 is a very problematic one, answers, or arguments. The government says, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that the same is submitted contrary to Article 145(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been ordered that the applicant of the amendment cannot submit any more amendments to the same member of the bill, which is, in particular, done." Please answer me where you see two amendments to article 15 or the title above article 15, and I will then congratulate you on your honesty and on the accuracy of your reasoning. There are no two amendments to Article 15, on which my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I gave our amendment. There is only one amendment, which is the one we ask to change the title, or title above Article 15. In the Encyclopaedia Educational Encyclopaedia, which was published in 1978, so at the time of self-government, you will find on several pages a definition of various concepts on which the constitutional arrangement of the SFRY was rested, such as: social agreements, social surveillance, social contract, social product and, of course, social self-government, which was the basis of the socio-political system, and based on the authorities of the working classes and working people. I think it's quite clear what I'm saying, if anyone wants to understand. We had one system that was based on the concept of social, where nothing was individual, or even state. I don't want from this time distance to criticise such a concept when we all know that he couldn't survive and that everything has literally failed, because both the economy and the economy have been destroyed and today we live in capitalism, wanted someone to admit it or not, in the rule of law that we're trying to build, in which citizens are owned by authorities and owners. That's how it had to be. I repeat, the current constitution, with all its weaknesses, but this is the only and only constitution of the Serbian state, since 1990, there is not a single provision on social order. There's only one place to talk about child welfare. These days we watch as she has brought these social concerns about children – to a large number of abused children, destroying children, children without orientation, poor social service, who are unable to deal with children's problems. A state through its institutions must take matters into its own hands, instead of societies that essentially mean nothing. In response to the government, we are also told that in parallel law it is common to use these terms when it comes to social health. I don't think that's true. It is impossible for traditional capitalist countries to mention social care for health, even in countries that have done so in transition before us. We watched the Health Protection Act of Montenegro, which was adopted on 3 June 2004, where they say "Health care is a set of measures and activities to preserve and improve health, prevent and combat disease," etc., "Health of the Republic citizens", "a citizen has a right, a citizen is obliged" etc. So we have no social health care at all where social protection rests. At the very end, I wouldn't want to get the impression of denying the existence of society, but society and the problems of society are dealing with sociology, philosophy, history and other sciences. The laws are passed by the state, so we represent the state through citizens as MPs of the Republic of Serbia, not society, and these two things are no longer allowed to interfere today. They have no relationship with each other in some way when it comes to passing laws and formulations that should come out of what we've tried through amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23286	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23287	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, an hour and a half ago, objected to Mr. Minister Milkovic that he was not reading the laws. Mr. Minister, you should have read these arguments that someone wrote on your behalf, or on behalf of the government, and given to the MPs. It's the exact same situation with my amendment, where I intervened on behalf of the SRS, defending above all our position that such a way of categorizing, as is the case here in Article 15, where the title - Social Care for individual health, is something that has been overcome. This is not only our principled position, but our intensity in the eventual change of the current constitution, and some other categories from that realsoc period have been retained in many laws, in some terminology. Maybe it's something or some time since the 1990s you were in, so you didn't fit in with your way of thinking in this period of multi-party, into something more modern, but one colleague brought in how those of whom you mainly signed the law, as regards the Croatian Ustasha authorities. You've almost copied everything, except they say social care in Ustasha's new speech and instead of a member, they say the article, and everything else is almost identical, and in many chapters it repeats itself. We felt that we should correct you and make it more piety, not so rhobarbically, more appropriate to our language and new ways that are now applicable and that it is beautifully written that it is an individual's obligation. It is an individual's obligation, as you say, that we do not necessarily differ in this Article 15, that within the limits of our knowledge and capabilities it is involved in social care for health, and that the injured or sick in an emergency provide first aid and enables it to be made available to emergency medical services. Paragraph 2 states that it is required to safeguard its own health, the health of other people, the environment and the working environment, that it is required to undergo mandatory vaccination in international traffic against certain infectious diseases identified by the law governing the area of protection of the population from infectious diseases, as well as to bear the cost of vaccination incurred in the process of implementing that measure. This is not in the case, Mr. Minister, when it comes to a predetermined travel contract because we have a travel law and a travel contract that says that when a person who has applied for a particular destination is insured and when paid for by that insurance in international traffic, he absolutely has the right to all the costs that possibly happen to him in a country where, God forbid, there is an epidemic or some infection. So, we've cleared that up now. There's nothing you can object to, to say that you're clean in here just to be tortured, we rub our noses with amendments. That's not true. The concept doesn't change anything here, we just think this is a way out of the way and a category that shouldn't survive in legal traffic either. It's our principled attitude, and we think it's a much better solution. And speaking of the individual's obligation here, as we wanted to say, I'm going to take the opportunity to potentiate what I think is very important. Although I am not a doctor, nor are many fellow MPs of the SRS, I have prepared very thoroughly for this session and this law and I have read all of this. It is a strategic plan for "Torlak"; I read this plan and project for the Institute "Torlak" by 2010 from cover to cover, with something that I have apostrophyd and potentiated and I intend to ask you. So, it's been updated these days, yesterday morning's journal made a contribution to it, through a reporter who went from one pharmacy to another, from several cities, that there are no flu vaccines at all, now that it's already on the threshold of winter and when the epidemic is going to spread. Ten thousand vaccines, according to information received by the journalist, were made at the Tolak Institute for this year, although the possibilities are much higher. I must remind you that this institute has been constantly working during those unremembered economic and all other sanctions that have been imposed on our country and our people for almost a decade. As colleagues, mostly Dr. Paja Momchilov and other doctors from the SRS have said several times, the fact is that centrifuges are 50 years old in the institute, which is internationally high. The fact that in this strategy, this study, which I've been reading and I've come to, is a complete plan and a project about financial structure to not only recover "Torak", but also to be able to compete with world-renowned houses, such as "Aventis", which are known in the production of vaccines and whose most likely this year we're going to have to import; that I'm not talking about the scandal that happened recently, that instead of the vaccine was just water and that the citizens are bitter about it. You know, when it's already indicated that in the future citizens, patients won't be able to choose their own doctor, you put yourself in the position of ordinary people, because you're a doctor, you're a minister, and how this affects the general mental state of people, because the fact that they're scared and that for their children and old and powerless they won't be able to provide flu vaccines this year. Is it normal in one country, which you say she has received many other projects, which only some countries have received. I have to go back again, Mr. Minister, to what you mentioned about almost 60,000 pregnant women in our country, as you said, discreetly, and you said a very confidential project of their testing on the HIV virus. The right to tell you, there's no confidentiality here. Doctors, though gynecologists, who came to me, while you were saying it, from Kragujevac and who are renowned and famous in that area are surprised at one of your statements. So, first of all, every pregnant woman has to give blood to an analysis of when she starts leading her pregnancy and when she comes to her doctor, so there's nothing secret and confidential about it. On the other hand, they say, one huge money (of course in euros) is the amount of a project managed by a certain doctor, Spasa Angelic and Mirosinka Dinkic. Someone here said, "Don't mention someone's mother." She's not someone's mother. She is the mother of the finance minister and your party colleague, but she is a public figure, someone who is publicly exposed and she is involved in this project along with Spas Angelic. By the way, I've been told that the man has gone through all possible regimes, from Broz's communism, through all the dissidents, or as you're already taking them, at the 8th session, that he's come to the end of this year to run a project that's nothing but a money laundering system. How's it going in that hierarchy? He's at the top, along with Mirosinka Dinkic, and that's how all the projects are done, so you take huge money; so whether it's nephrology, gynecology, whether it's surgery... I don't really know, Mr. Minister, what's wrong with you, if you're nervous, come out here, have a little calm down, have a coffee, have a soda, have someone take you out, don't act like that, talk about serious things. These are serious remarks. So it comes to volunteers or mere volunteers who are at the end of that chain getting lunch or are there because they're going to drink juice and coffee, someone to teach 50 or 100 euros, and those who are at the top of the huge money for something you call a capital project. To avoid such boasting, and your colleagues, first of all, the gynecologists who are baffled by the fact that you, as they say, have come out of the Assembly's pay phone, as well as everyone else, and above all I, who have studied all this and have tried to figure out what the point is, I am asking you now, what the holders of that analysis have asked, is this a key question – is it, in your opinion, in this constitution and in relation to the budget items normally not to be taken into account at all, and that it has been released a series of water, when it comes to some project and financial projection of 20 million euros? The comparisons are, let me tell you, that's an amount less than the amount foreseen for the Export Promotion Agency. When the Export Promotion Agency was established and the amount of funds, which is around 20m euros, was determined, we asked what is the state of Serbia now ready to produce when everything is destroyed, from agriculture, through all those possible healthy industries. On the other hand, you have a ready project, people and an institution that is world-renowned, renowned and where it is necessary to insert 20m euros through a financial injection, which could not only produce, but protect the interest of every citizen and take care of it when it comes to a simple flu vaccine, but also to export, to mate with these recently mentioned global companies. This is what you should think about and stand for as a minister, and when the budget is projected in government sessions, because it is impossible to give us some different explanation why "Torlak" is in this situation today when in all these budget items it is possible in five seconds to find where all the money is being spent and to raise those 20m euros with which this renowned institution would raise itself to the highest possible level and, above all, give us Serbian citizens a kind of security, and it can mate and export everything that it produces to the European and world market.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23288	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23289	In front of SRS MPs, counterpart Branislav Blazic submitted an amendment and suggested that the title above members 16 and Article 16 be deleted. It's a short term. The title is – The Health Protection Development Plan, and then Article 16 says this: "To ensure and implement social care for health at the level of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings a plan to develop healthcare (hereinafter referred to as the "development plan"). "I have already spoken, we have suggested this to you, if you want to follow something that is the modern way in health care; this is an old communist centralist measure, an unnecessary measure. It was Communism, and someone can't cure themselves and think it's good. It's good for someone who doesn't want to decentralisation, but wants to centralised. So that's where I think of the state and health care. So it's not an empty word and the radicals just throw out passwords, they just break down, what's the suggestion? We've offered you well, as high-ranking official of the World Health Organization... I'm just saying that in the 1970s, 39 people from these fields were in the World Health Organization; they were high-ranking officials, four were committee presidents at the time, four were abroad representatives of the World Health Organization, and the largest number was from this country. So we used to be strong in the World Health Organization, besides being the founders of that organization, and as far as I know, Andrija Stampar was the chairman of that constitutive conference. So there was a better time when we were far more esteemed in that organization, when our experts and how they were at the price. Now we've come to the point that whoever comes from the world, incompetent experts, is making us solutions. If you think it's your success to resist a standard like this, a communist, and you say, now we're having an equal conversation and we've fought for this, you haven't achieved success. Then it's Pierre's victory for you. I'm just saying it hypothetically, of course, and anything is possible that it isn't and you won't answer me for sure, I hope you understand what I'm saying. What are we up to? If we are a member of the World Health Organization, there are programmes brought by the WHO, which we should follow, to adapt what is a global task and trend to our conditions, and yes, I have spoken, we are bringing a health policy in this Parliament that will then be binding on all parliamentary groups, which will be binding on the government and your ministry, where you will develop a strategy, and then you will give laws. And, of course, in the end, these laws and policies and strategies will also create programmes. These programs should be the bearer, the momentum of the development of our health profession, and certainly not the centralist, communist, ethical planning that you imagine. It was just our intention. We make you such a proposal, and we know that you will not adopt it. Well done, not to you, but to the parliamentary majority who will vote for this. It's a great honor for the Serbian government to pass laws like this. I think the citizens of Serbia are already seeing it, and the medical profession has seen it in most cases, that these are not good laws. The messages we get keep talking about, from high-ranking officials even health professions we have that kind of information, we're bombed by it. They'll figure it out. If you adopt this all in this way, when the consequences come, then it'll be a little late, then the citizens will see what's been said here today and what's actually happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23290	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the previous speakers mentioned the Tolak Institute with a few words and asked why the Tolak Institute was ruined. It is very simple, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament – from "Torlaks" that when you take serums, vaccines, you can't get a commission. It happens not only with the Tollac, it happens with the Jugormedia, you see for yourself how much they're fighting over Jugoramedia; it also happened with Galenika. Looks like big commissions are going around the medications. Speaking of which, before I move on to the amendment, Mr. President, I would like to ask the minister two parliamentary questions and ask that I be answered in writing. First, whether it was determined who bought and imported tetabulin, which health care facility bought from him and what the minister of his jurisdiction did against the authorities and those involved in this. If it's health care workers, is it then that discipline measures have been initiated against the importer, whether he filed a criminal report and where they have arrived? The public needs to know, 19.5 thousand people received tetabulin and thought it was protected, and the health of 19.5 thousand people was questioned. The second question, when the drugs are imported normally, then a tender is called, etc. However, there is one possibility in the law, when it is necessary because of the possibility of an epidemic, which is yet to be imported in intervention by the Law on Public Procurement, that imports do not have to go to tender. I ask the minister - who imports drugs when intervention imports, when there is no need to go to a tender, because the people are already quite told that the owners of these companies that are imported by high-ranking spouses or relatives of high-ranking officials of an organization, a coded political organisation, are not going to give her a name, not to give her the right to a replica, so that there are also them in the Ministry of Health. I ask, as a People's MP, that I be provided with a list of those chosen and criteria by which they were chosen to import drugs interventionally. I have submitted an amendment to Article 17 and I request that Article 17 be deleted for the simple reason that Article 16 of this Law provides that the Government shall adopt health care programmes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the health care development program has been restored to the past. I believe that the National Assembly needs to bring documents from the field of health policy and that it should be the government who will be the perpetrator. It is that we have three branches of power, legislative, executive and judicial, but it is legislative at least a little above the executive and judicial authority, because ministers swear an oath before MPs, not the other way around; judges swear an oath before MPs, not the other way around. Therefore, I believe that the highest level on which this can be done is the National Assembly. On the basis of these documents brought by the Assembly, the government is further discussing the topic, for the simple reason we know - the government, read the minister's resolution, which means that complete matter will be placed in the ministry and under the auspices of the minister. That's why I think this article 17 needs to be deleted. Speaking of how much health care is being taken in Serbia, I will remind you that only out of sanitary supervision in the last few years all important jobs have been pulled out. The Law on Sanitary Control, "The Official Messenger" since 2004, has reduced sanitary supervision to three segments: protection against infectious diseases, health regularity of life supplies and general uses in production, transport and import and hygiene of drinking water. The earlier laws on sanitary surveillance included the removal of waste water, the professional removal of waste materials from our industrial and health facilities; the protection against the harmful fact of ionising radiation used for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in medicine; and, at the time, the law provided for the production and transport of drugs and poisons, the law provided for protection against air and land pollution, etc. All of this was pulled under sanitary supervision and no one's controlling it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how dangerous it is, you can assume, and I'll just remind you of a little thing that cost this Serbia and the Serbian citizens a lot. In information, we read that malignancies increased enormously compared to the pre-1999 period, so before the bombing, the consequences of the bombing had already been felt in Serbia's citizens' health. This growth is thought to go on for another 20 years and will be four times more affected by carcinogenic diseases (cancer, leukemia). I'm asking the Ministry what has taken place in its portfolio that this future situation is at least pre-warned, as far as possible. I remind you that from the contingent of Italian soldiers who were in Kosovo after the bombing, 13 people suffered and died from cancer, that also Professor Giovanni Kazeli, who was in Kosovo on a study mission, returned, recently died of cancer, that Belgian soldiers who were also ill in KFOR. At least they keep a record of how many of them have had cancer. How many people in Kosovo and Metohija have suffered from cancer, it is impossible to obtain data other than data that can be taken from enclaves, from areas where Serbs are and where health institutions are in the hands of Serbian doctors. That part over there is a dark fairy and the question is how much of it is there. Why am I saying this? And my family had an accident for a family member to suffer from cancer. Thank God, she's been here 10 years, and she's cured, but she's regularly in control. She came to the Institute of Oncology, so there's nothing there. A lot more money has to be invested. The situation is if it's not like when she was, if not, then it's worse, and it's been 10 years. I know that now the minister is going to tell me that the machine was bought, that this was bought, that it was bought, that the cytostatics are gone. If there are, you have to buy them, then through social justice medication. At least that's how it was a few months ago, when a colleague also used cytostatics. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to return to the amendment. The amendment should be adopted, this article 17 should be deleted. Minister of Health, the Ministry of Messages - keep an eye on it, is that you will stay in the position you are in, but take care of these most critical areas that attack human health. There's a bird flu on the border, and there's no flu vaccines. It's not against regular flu either. You can read a little bit, you'll get to know each other. What's that supposed to do to get the Ministry out of the air? You have a very responsible portfolio. Don't, for the responsibility of the resistor, answer the next day, and I think there will be a change in both these benches and the Ministry after March.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23292	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I will only ask you, since you spoke responsibly about the problem of the Kosovo population and the role of legislation in relation to the executive rule, you will be in the Assembly tomorrow, because I do not believe that a stenogram will be completed today. Because of the name of these drugs, in order not to get the wrong answer, if necessary, people from the stenogram will check together with you the exact part of the question. Thank you. Anyone else want to go by the amendment? No, I don't. ) Under the title of Chapter III above Article 18 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter IV and Articles 19 - 24 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we have asked this amendment to remove Chapter IV and all members within this chapter: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, because they themselves do not have a binding character, and we believe that, at all costs, legislative regulation should avoid the declaration and unnecessary scope of the law. This law, as you can see, has 278 members. It has somehow become common since 2000, that the laws are practically books, manuals for work, a series of certain declarative provisions that are worthless to nothing and that are practically not applied. The law must be clear, concise, to know whose obligation it is, whose duty it is, who it is, and, of course, the criminal provisions must be clear and whoever has to work and something needs to be taken care of, if it is not cared for, must carry adequate conconsequences. Can it be simpler, more concise and clear? You got it. From some laws in the environment, we see that this whole Chapter IV is placed in one single member, where it is clearly said that every citizen has the right to health care and to be able to achieve the highest possible level of health, in accordance with the provisions of the law and no one should endanger the health of others. Loud and clear. You don't have to explain that in five members. I'm a member of the 19th is so vague. Believe me, I tried to figure out who was standardizing this legal norm, what he meant to say, but I couldn't find the answer. For this reason, I will read this article 19: "The principle of healthcare accessibility is achieved by providing adequate health care to the citizens of the Republic, which is physically, geographically and economically accessible, or culturally acceptable, and especially health care at the primary level. "I really don't know what this means, given the fact that the National Assembly did not have the opportunity to discuss health policy, nor to bring any document for a period of five, 10, 20 years, which would be the basis for reforming the health system and the laws that are now being proposed to it. What is the basic objective of health care – to achieve the highest possible level of preservation of the health of citizens and families. Can we claim that we can provide it under this system law? We can't. It's not enough just to pass the law, so let's say that we can provide, when we know that the mass of patients is waiting to get a radiation term, let's say, the patients got cancer, so they're happy if they can schedule it in a month, two or three, and we know that every day is very important. We wonder why we, Serbian citizens, have no right to know what the state of the nation is. Is there anyone who can and must inform us that, say, the increase in carcinogenic diseases is so much and so much year after year and what strategy is now being made and brought, if we are aware of these facts, and whether this is the result of what we claim to be, and probably is, therefore, the bombing and the poor uranium that NATO aggression has thrown upon our country? On the other hand, we say we don't have the money, we don't have enough chance to fight it. We expect, reportedly, some assistance from abroad, and this assistance is only being implemented through these projects mentioned by the minister, so those who hold lectures get 300 euros, and those who listen get nothing. It goes so pyramidally, the one at the top of the pyramid gets hundreds of thousands of euros. We do, apparently, some education of our doctors, who don't lack that education; they know, they just don't have what and don't have the opportunity to fully apply their knowledge. What within this group of members, particularly of this head, is the last member of 24, so-called. the principle of effectiveness of healthcare. It is said: "The principle of health care efficiency is achieved by achieving the best possible results in relation to available financial resources, i.e. by achieving the highest level of health care with the lowest cost of funds. "Where is that possible? What kind of demagogy is this? We want the highest level, I don't know what standard, but at the lowest cost of the funds. Only if you don't think we're gonna fire 50% more employees in health care facilities now, so we're gonna cut that cost, so health care will be better, but it's not our guarantee either. You can also reduce the number of doctors, and medical staff and nonmedical staff, but it's not a guarantee that we'll have better health care. The constitution guarantees, as much as he did not like someone, health care for all Serbian citizens, on equal terms, regardless of who they are, as they are baptized, what language they speak. In particular, pregnant women and children are protected. There's no need for the law to stand like this. This isn't the first time you've spent six members of the law here talking about something that's absolutely unnecessary. Obviously, you don't have enough professional people to deal with at least legal norms without talking about the essence of what this legal norm allows us to do. It doesn't allow us anything. We've decided what we want, whatever we want, and that's what the strategy is. The law shouldn't contain the law. We have to bring the strategy first, and then we have to work it out and plead it to be some kind of system law. He is, unfortunately, neither is he, nor can he be. The decentralisation problem you're predicting here, so you've still called it some elaborate decentralisation, I don't know what that means, maybe you can explain it. By lowering the responsibility for individual health institutions to a lower, local or rural level, it is only to wash your hands of responsibility and impose on someone who has even less chance of really getting old in the right way and that we can be sure that we will get adequate healthcare. Minister, our colleague from the Shop was talking about this pay phone, if you go to the Shop, and I'm sure you weren't, you'll see they weren't in 2005. They really are in the XIX century by all parameters. The health care parameters must be the most sensitive and therefore the fellow responds. There are parts of this country that are truly in an uninvited situation, but there are parts in downtown, Belgrade. Take the earthly municipality, take Batajnica, which has 50,000 inhabitants, you have one small home of health and you don't have all the specialist services, you don't have an emergency service, for 50,000 inhabitants, and therefore unfortunately the citizens of the Batajnica Meat Community and how they rebel and write to you and the mayor because of that unpleasant event with that girl who had no one to show first aid. It's amazing that this is happening to us, but it's happening to us. If we in Belgrade have such problems, and if from the level of local self-government, especially urban municipalities, we need to keep an eye on each other, and they say to us – we need this machine, you can help us buy it, and we don't have money in the budget for it, then we ask the businessmen – let's all collect money together, give donations, and buy this apparatus and take it home to health; if we're doing everything on that principle, it's the same thing when you're building a church, then you can't talk about health care and what kind of strategy you have and what the responsibility of the state and some principles is. Those principles are then how anyone manages, who wants to help, not the principles that are binding on the state. That's why we're asking to delete these members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23294	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. According to the same amendment, the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, has the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23295	My colleague, Gordana Pop-Lazic, explained why we feel that these principles should be deleted. First, they do not have a binding character; secondly, it is necessary to avoid declarationability and unnecessary scope of the law. I'll read you what we've been given as an explanation, to see how it responds to our brief and clear messages, I can even say lapidarians. What we wrote is the essence, and here's what suits us: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons that Articles 19 to 24 are accepted. The draft law defines the principles on which health care is organised and implemented as a comprehensive activity of society, with a fundamental aim of achieving the highest possible level of preservation of the health of citizens and families. Namely, the proposed principles of health care are laid down as the basis for the health care system proposed in the Proposal for a Health Protection Act. Also, many laws that have been passed in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in similar legal systems, in system laws governing an area, regulate and implement the principles on which the area is organised and implemented. "What verbalism, which speaks and nothing of it you can catch. I just called to say it's not like we're just tearing it down. They're just here to give some principled principles that are widely accepted everywhere in the world and no one else is going to do anything besides that or do anything. He had a nice chance to do a nice reteral system that would solve most of our population's needs at the primary level, so that secondary and tertiary would be those who support the system. We're all upside down. We have the main tertiary and secondary, and our tortured doctors working in primary health care are completely injured in this system. They write recipes, they can't even write all the recipes, five medications are allowed to write and write what specialists told them to write. They've been turned into administrative officials in one of the worst possible and vulgar ways. If the promoter had fulfilled his task seriously, he would have read the document of the World Health Organization "Health for All in the 21st Century" and defined the entertainment system in the spirit of objective 15 of this system. The document, in point 15) of the proposed strategy, starts with an assessment of health needs, a method of promoting health and disease prevention, family-oriented health care, to the establishment of an effective reteral system, all envisaged and explained how to act and act. If that were the case, the legislator would have made adequate proposals on the restructuring of homes of health and hospitals and mandatory indicators for measuring the quality and efficiency of the health system. As it's done, it's not operational, it's declarative, and it won't give any positive effects on the work of the health service. What Mrs. Karol Junger says, I don't know how many thousands of hospitals, so she says, what do you need? Slow it down, you've got extra hospital beds anyway. Reorient to primary health care. Go to day hospitals, go to what you're talking about, the paliatical care and everything else that goes with it, patronage, etc. So you don't follow the instructions of these global documents of the World Health Organization. I said, specifically, Article 15. Don't make a retern system as suitable for our society. We're a society in transition and we have major economic problems. You're doing what's not the most effective. You often say – we do our programs and projects. It's good, and you should do it. Well done. But the results will come in 10 years, and you should know that there are two strategies when you want to reduce mortality and morbidity. The first is a population strategy, which you do, you teach people, you train how to behave on a voluntary basis. That's good. And you need to work, you don't need to interrupt. But there's also a risk detection and prevention strategy that gives effect in a year and less days. As evidence, you can only take the MONICA project. You'll understand what the Finns did. It goes aggressively through preventive work and disease control, as you say, to detecting the risk factor in the population. It is known that we have the highest mortality of cardiovascular disease. And then you go to the risk factors that are clear and that's why we're dying the most. In the end, you can act preventively by simple methods, by measuring the body weight, by determining the sugar in the blood, by not saying everything now. The doctors know it, so the common people know it. And then when you single out that population where there are risk factors, when you suppress them, you're going to have a very fast shift. This is how we continue to sink. We have an increase in the number of patients who are dying of cardiovascular disease. I'll give you specific information for last year, my dear colleague. And then you think that these angio-salas are a solution, so the local Pasha in Novi Sad, whose main ideal in health care, is to reach you or, when it can't reach, to at least be equal and equal to you, so such amendments suggest that everything you have as an authority he has in Novi Sad, buy a hall for angio-diagnostics 300,000 euros more expensive. Now it explains how Vojvodina should have a better hall than they have here in Belgrade, and it haunts one of the greatest experts and surgeons. I don't know if you're in on it, I don't think so. I believe you're excluded from that, after all. You are doing a liver transplant here with Mr. Bozin Radevic, who is retired, and this man, who could be "cold" to stay for at least two years under normal legal conditions, is exposed to the unprecedented and creepy persecution of unprofessional and evil people. You, Minister, should go out and say, "People, let's look after this man, use him while he can operate, let's not cut down on their work." That's how I see your role and mission. I don't know why you don't use your abilities, your powers. They're wide open. Your authority is extremely high. I expect you to advocate and prevent the persecution of the country's largest, best and most recognised experts, who are also members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences. The impertinent types of our profession have allowed themselves, precisely because of these political circumstances, to persecute real, true and valuable experts. Protect them, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23296	I thank Mr. Momchilov. Is anyone else answering this amendment? You have no more time, Mr. Markovic, under this amendment. Okay. Since no one's answering for a word, we're continuing the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Glava V. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23297	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Chapter V. I must say that I am really not surprised that this amendment has not been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There is little today that can surprise us or practically these last days, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia was represented by ministers from G17 plus, and when the laws they proposed and explained were on the agenda. There's enough we can hear and see, and there's no way to justify it. First of all, I would remind myself of a statement that shocked some, some of which did not, when it came to compensations that, according to the G17 plus proposal, no longer need to be paid, which relate to covering at least a part of the cost of the funeral. That's when we heard from Mrs. Snow White, as her last name is, a statement that we must finally determine whether our priorities are alive or dead. Apparently, in their case, they opt for the living, and we'll probably leave the dead on the streets. In that light we should also look at these laws. And now, I mean, it's still clear that our priority, at least when it comes to the G17 plus parliamentary group, is not even living people. Instead of the announced reforms here, we have an attempt to regulate the entire, minority, health system through one session, which was preceded by the first principled search, united by several laws, in order to implement it as quickly as possible. We have so far had an unprecedented obstruction of the law during their debate on the Health Committee, where our distinguished doctor, Professor Paja Momchilov, is the chairman of the Committee. Now we come to the final and final part here in the discussion of details, when, of course, the parliamentary majority shows in a clear way that the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely not interested. This can be seen by the number of MPs of the ruling coalition present here today, and certainly by their interest, or by their absolute lack of interest in the debate. What the G17 plus parliamentary group has been more famous for so far has certainly not been a protection of the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you think of them, before you remember maybe imports of genetically modified soybeans. I will remind you that by 2000 and the arrival of DOS to power we simply had no such problems, but then certain experts were involved in power, from the then Federal Ministry of Agriculture, headed by Sasa Vitosevic, Ivan Dulic, now well-known, and Predrag Sladojevic. They were then said to have received four dinars per imported kilogram of soy. Of course, genetically modified, although there was then a ban on the import of genetically modified soybeans and this was also prevented by border phytosanitary inspectors. However, thanks to the support these interest groups, of course for the sake of profit, had in second-degree bodies and federal ministries, the imports continued uninterruptedly. In 2002, it even seemed that under pressure from the public and the media, the imports would be suspended, but at that time, the intervention of the then-deputy Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, Miroljub Labus, illegally put a decision on the import of genetically modified soybeans, which were first opposed by certain ministers from Montenegro, but then because of the threat that their proposals and their opinions would be boycotted in the future decided that the genetically modified strain was a Serbian thing, because it and imports into Serbia and remains in Serbia. They also accepted the blackmail at the 59th session of the government, held on 4 July 2002, it was voted to allow soy imports despite the ban on state authorities for continuity. That, of course, is later led by Mrs Dulic-Markovic continued and that is what citizens need to know. As for the amendments to Chapter V, we from the SRS parliamentary group have suggested that this name is certainly not relevant, says "Human rights and values in health care and patient rights" and that it reads "Citizen rights in healthcare". It is possible again, and this is otherwise a trend in all the laws, when translation from certain foreign texts has occurred, and yet in our laws are built into terms that are not suitable, and in particular these titles, which are very often not only of no meaning, but also follow not further what is in that chapter. There is a certain inconsistencies here, and it is reflected in the fact that in the fifth chapter, human rights are spoken in the title, and in the provisions are later spoken exclusively of the patient. There's nothing to talk about in health care, except the headlines. I think it is definitely both more appropriate and more precise that this head is called – the right citizens in health care, especially given that if patients are spoken of then there is a certain assumption, which is certainly not true, that it is about people who are sick. The health care law, of course, applies not only to those who have a problem, but must be talked about citizens' rights, because health care implies both prevention and education and health care is incomparably a broader concept and cannot be treated and defined only for patients. So, there's enough in the next head that's wrong, but I'd like to leave a little more time for my colleagues before the break, and of course we'll continue to discuss the details and continue to criticise the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23298	Who on this amendment answers for a word? Nobody. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The Committee on Health and Family did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23299	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, have submitted an amendment to Article 29. The bill on health care: the word "patient" is replaced by the word "citizen". I think the solution my amendment offers is much more appropriate, because healthy people are also subject to medical care. When you say "patient," it refers to an already sick man, which is why I insist it be a "citizen." Mr. Minister, you'll agree when you say "patient" to think of a sick man, which means this law applies only to sick people. However, I think it is more correct to say "citizen," because all people, both healthy and sick, have the right to choose their doctor, and they can also contact their doctor and when they are healthy, for some advice or prevention of disease. Therefore, I see no reason why you would not accept this, only if the amendment came from MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. So each citizen has the right to have a free choice of doctors of medicine, or dentistry and health care institutions, or free choice of different medical procedures in accordance with the law, based on relevant information on the possible risks and health consequences of patients. Modern and successful primary health care depends significantly on the integrated approach towards the primary units providing protection. Units are: individual i.e. A citizen, a family and a local community. Health policy in this bill completely ignores the importance and role of the family in raising, promoting health, helping and supporting health disorders of different intensity. Health disorders occur in the family, and they end up in it. Family function relative to mental and physical health i.e. Family medicine must be supported and improved in the right way and organised, as well as the European Union's position. Therefore, family health has a central place to target health policy and health care organisations at the primary level. The improvement of primary protection work depends significantly on an integrated approach to the protection of individuals, families and local social communities. It should be recalled that primary protection is a bearing pillar in the health system and that all projects and programmes done in collaboration with international institutions favour this section of the service, as economic science can easily prove that social costs of prevention are lower than direct and indirect treatment costs. Based on everything, I think Mr. Secretary should accept this amendment of mine, because it's really more correct to say "a citizen" than "a patient." I hope so, Mr. Minister, that I have managed to convince you that this solution is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23300	I thank Mr. Vukovic. Here's a word from MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23301	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think it matters, and there are some common terms; one of the usual terms for doctors and health care is that whoever comes to the doctor is a patient. Whether it's going to be "a citizen" or "a patient", the essence of the law certainly won't change. You know, he's got that usual term at the Trade Act, so he says, "Protect the customer." It's not about protecting citizens. It's about protecting customers. And it sure as hell won't change anything. It's no big deal to change that in this law, but it doesn't change the essence of this law. In a previous article where citizens' rights in health care, or human rights, as it says here in the law, human rights and values in health care and patients' rights, the right to tell you that in some ways this "human rights and values in health care and patients' rights" is more complete than this Article 26 that regulates it. What is important to me as an MP, a doctor and a citizen, is what comes further from this article 26, and also from Article 29 to follow the law to its last member. It's important to respect that. What I could possibly resent to this Article 29, is that it is not declared here, and it says: "Every patient has the right to have a free choice of doctors of medicine, i.e. dentistry and medical institutions, i.e. free choice of different medical procedures, in accordance with the law, based on relevant information on possible risks and consequences of patient health"; we know that we have here both private and social practices, so he has not evened out private and social practices. For me, it might be a grudge, a free choice in both private and social practices or health institutions. Otherwise, the name itself "patient" or "citizen," we could say now that it's not a neck but a neck, because in fact the patient is a citizen. It doesn't have to be, they don't just go to the doctor, they go and they go and see if they're sick. [[Tossing from the O.R.: Patient is a sick man.]] No one comes from a whim, but goes to see, to check. It's a common term that goes back years and I don't see it as a big problem. Of course, everything can change, it doesn't change the essence of the law, but what's important to me as a man and a doctor is that this particular member follows up to the end of all the other members and is respected from the very beginning of the law to the end and to the last member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23302	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the part of my predecessor's exposure that private practice and health care institutions should be leveled, in terms of health care, but you can wind up in any kind of landscape, some things still cannot be reformed, so I don't say hide. A citizen is a citizen, a patient is a citizen who is ill, so he came to a health care facility to seek help, to seek treatment and medicine. Therefore, a citizen can choose a doctor. The patient doesn't have time to pick him anymore, because he's sick and he needs medical attention urgently. If any of the amendments are clear, then this amendment is clear and this amendment goes towards repairing this text that is quite thick, but it is a question of how valuable it is because the thickness does not achieve quality. You saw when we discussed the budget, the budget was this big, and since Minister Dinkic wanted to be a Nobel laureate, he's been writing fatter budgets, and there's less money for the citizens. Therefore, I see no reason why this amendment should not be adopted and why not change the word "patient" to the word "citizen". He is a citizen of a future patient, he is a citizen patient, but a citizen is not a patient until he goes to the doctor until he gets sick, until he asks for protection, treatment. To return to the topic that I just started, a team before many citizens in Serbia, thanks to the fact that these friends of yours delivered several hundred thousand tons of explosives in 1999 and several tens of thousands of tons of poor uranium to Serbia, will be future patients. That's why I told the Minister that much more attention, much more resources, much more science has to focus on this segment relating to cancerous diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23304	They told me something was moving, that it would be good to give it a break from three to four. As far as I'm concerned, I can take a break now. Let's just listen to our colleague and then I'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23305	Since we're talking about this law, which I think is very professional, I didn't think I should report it because health care is absolutely not my profession. But as we have entered completely lay and some water that does not apply to this law, here I have to comment on one thing that is constantly spinning – a patient or a citizen. The patient isn't the one who's sick. It's the patient who's looking for medical services. I can be pregnant, I'm not sick, I'm looking for a health care service. He's a patient and an animal in a vet, and he's not a citizen. You're looking for a vaccine... I can see you've changed a lot, and you've been very excited about the significance of your pregnancy, but let's look for another example that's simpler. When you come for the vaccine, you are healthy because you cannot receive the vaccine if you are sick, but you are still looking for a health care service. So this is a patient, and of course he's a citizen, but it has nothing to do with this story and let's get back to health.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23306	Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23307	I hope this painting is over, that we can get the break that's coming to us, that you won't, not you personally, but someone through you, mortify here and make us work for five hours, and you know how fast we work and how long we're here. Dear colleague, I respect you for coming out, I welcome and wish there were more announcements from our citizens. The patient is someone with a problem and he's answering... Ma'am, I haven't interrupted you. Please, I'm not insulting you. No need to throw away. You're a cultural woman. The patient means attention, you have to pay attention to someone, and when you say citizen... Why does it say "citizen," why do we insist? Not to be outwitted by the Ministry, with you. Health is a human right, according to the Convention on Human Rights brought by the United Nations, every man has the right to health. Prevention and promotion of health is today something that is ideal. You don't need to treat, and this law shouldn't be a disease law. Our minister nicely incorporated one principle into the health care law, on insurance, so he said – we are not making a law on diseases, but we are making a health law. It's better not to be sick, to keep the disease from happening, and that's the intensity. That's why a citizen puts himself there. With us you can't say -- people, our state is civil, Serbia is, by our Constitution, states of citizens, not Serbian people, which we do resent in some way, which isn't the first and second, so if you want to talk about promoting health and prevention, you're talking about citizens. It's not a small thing. This means one commitment not to treat or to disease, but to control the disease. I don't think even the promoters think otherwise, but they've given different solutions again in some way, and I think they think the same way we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23308	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23309	Just to be exact, the patient is the one who suffers and suffers, and the patient, the root of that word, is the Latin word of the patient, which means patience. Why are there "patients" listed here, and why is it not good for it to be a definition at this point -- citizens? Because a whole series of members in this part of the law are in line with an act called the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and with the European Charter of Patients' Rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23310	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. We continue at 3:15 p.m. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Allow me to publish one piece of information on the resignations of the MPs Sovrani Čonjagic and Vesna Lalić- Dragovic. You have received the resignations of Sovrani Čonjagic and Vesna Lalic- Dragovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2), and Article 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office for MPs Svrnija Čonjagic and Vesni Lalić- Dragovic, on the day of the resignation. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, I find that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time elected to the MPs Sovrnija Čonjagic and Vesna Lalić- Dragovic, elected from the election list G17 Plus - Miroljub Labus. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out, for which the Election Commission is in charge. We're continuing to work, just so I can finish this operational part. Is there anyone else reporting for article 29? No, I don't. ) On the title of Chapter VII and Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23312	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic, and welcome to our Parliament. You weren't there before noon, so now you're here...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23313	Mr. Momchilov, where I was before noon, that's my business. If you'd like to know, I've been to a meeting of former youth officials, 500 officials, in the rapids, and it's been a pleasure to be with these young people. So yesterday afternoon and today, so I wasn't resting, if that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23314	I'm not in any way, but I'm just saying that there are always some priorities and what you've now chosen as a priority, that's fine with me and I welcome it, that's fine with me, again, because youth is our future. So it's nice to have you there. We are now going back to work, the amendment we have tabled in front of the SRS, so MP Milomir Dunjic suggested that the title of the head be deleted seven and a member of the 44th. To see what this article 44 says: "If a doctor, or a specialist psychiatrist, or a neuropsychiatrician assesses that the nature of mental illness in a patient is such that he can endanger the life of a patient or the life of another person or property, he may be referred to hospital treatment, and the competent doctor of the medical institution will receive appropriate hospital medical care without the consent of the patient himself in accordance with the law, so that the next day following the reception of a consil of a stationed health institution decides whether the patient will be kept on hospital treatment. "The explanation of why we suggest that this member be deleted is – if the correct quote is in the last position, and says: "The way and the procedure, as well as the organisation and conditions of the treatment of mentally ill persons, that is, the accommodation of these persons in the stationary health institutions, will be regulated by a special law," means, if they are to be regulated by a special law, then there is no need to put it here. What is my responsibility, or Mr. Dunjic? The answer is, I will now read to you: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is Article 44. The bill stipulates that a reference to a psychiatric institution will be made closer to a special law. If the proposed amendment were to be accepted, there would be a legal gap pending the adoption of a special law on this area on the basis of which patients are referred to psychiatric institutions, which would create opportunities for abuses in this area, i.e. violations of basic human rights of persons suffering from mental illness. "Look at the answer, at all costs you have to find a way to reject what someone is suggesting, and it calls for some logic. What would this mean? So if we don't adopt this right now, then psychiatric patients will wander the city and endanger security, both their own and Serbia's citizens. Isn't there a law so far and isn't there a system for the reception and care of psychiatric patients? Is this a banutistan of us so far, what this is, where we live, don't make Serbia an unsettled country and don't caricate our country's health system. These patients have been hospitalized and treated in our hospitals in one normal and appropriate way so far. The other problem is, far greater, that these hospitals do not have enough material resources and our social concern towards them, in some ways disabled, citizens may not be at a satisfactory level, as our position, as the environment, is not always satisfactory to them, so they are often quite released from our community. Just two or three more things I want to say. We escaped here to work five hours in continuity. We heard it was moving somewhere, and I asked if it was moving in the building. Don't move. There was a story about something wrong with the kitchen. The kitchen's in perfect order. What is now happening and doing with this noise is also a kind of pressure and precisely creating that atmosphere that needs to prove that the Serbian Parliament is an unserious institution and that at all costs our citizens are being disgusted by this institution. Of course, this kind of fire and non-response of the Rules of Procedure that calms the hall has the same function, to devalue what's being said here in an illegal one, now I can tell a completely chaotic situation. We can't do anything about it, we'll just keep defending these attitudes. Just so much for this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23315	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. I don't know how you decided it was an illegal situation. As far as I can tell, he's been in the O.R., but he's never been a lot of MPs. So there were not so many MPs in the regular days. As soon as I'm in charge, it's full of fat. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23316	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Health Protection Act, submitted an amendment to Article 45. In our amendment, we propose that point (1) be changed and that health institutions in state and private ownership be read. We think this definition is more correct and comprehensive. At point 2) we suggest that changes be made – healthcare professionals and health associates who perform health work in health institutions, as well as other persons who work professionally in health care. We also propose to delete in point 2 the provision proposed in the draft law. The difference between health institutions can only be made on the basis of ownership rights, according to the SRS. It is incomprehensible that private practice can only have certain health services. We believe that here we need to intervene in this article as proposed by our amendment. The health department's inspection bodies are involved in health care. So many SRS are proposing to make changes in this article and we propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23317	I thank Mr. Jojic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the world and Europe under reform, there are fundamental changes in the objectives of health policy as well as the institutions of the health system, in line with these changes. A document on health policy in all countries is adopted by the highest legislative authority, and in our case the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this document proposes a strategy, laws and programmes. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not have the opportunity to discuss health policy, bring a document for a certain period of time that would be the basis for reforming the health system and the laws that are now being proposed. As a member of the World Health Organization, we were obliged to bring in a document on the objectives and measures of health care, health policy, in line with WHO's "Health for All in the 21st century", but this was lagging behind. If this is in mind, the question is raised which health policy has been used to draft legislation; without such examples and without clearly defined objectives, as well as the views defined by the highest legislative body, there have been no escape from numerous inaccuracies, ambiguities, as well as other weaknesses. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 46 speaks about health institutions and private practice, species, conditions for the establishment and termination of work of health institutions. Article 46 states that health care institutions may establish a republic, AP, local self-government, legal or physical person, under the conditions prescribed by this law. Health institutions may be set up by means of state or private property, if the law does not provide otherwise. Taxation is listed, from home to health, and under point 9) of the clinical center. The amendment of the SRS has defined that Article 46, paragraph 5, changes and that it reads – Health Protection Institute, as well as deletes point 8), which is a clinical hospital centre. A traditional and most appropriate name, in the spirit of Batut, should be kept anyway. It doesn't make sense to continue to retain clinical hospital centers. It is not clear why the traditional name of the Health Protection Institute is changed to "public health office". The term public health existed back in the 19th century, but neither Vladan Djordjevic nor Batut translated it as public, but as folk health. Even Andrija Stamper founded a school of folk health. The institution that deals with human health, especially in the domain of the impact of socio-economic factors on health, as well as in the creation of health policy, and above all when it comes to the work of this institution, is quite fine. In any case, his name should not be changed, because it is not true that all the countries around him accepted this, only Croatia did. If you want to change your name, at least make it the National Health Institute. According to the Government's explanation, the change in the name of the Health Protection Institute to the new name used in the Bill – the Institute of Public Health is in line with the new performance of this type of health institution, which exceeds the former jobs performed by the Health Protection Office. I don't think it's an adequate explanation; it says that the new name of this kind of health institution is being coordinated with the development of science in this area, as well as with the comparative legal resources of the most developed European countries. I just denied it to stand. I have to notice that today the minister is a little more active than yesterday, and probably on my appeal as well. Today I will try again to appeal to at least one amendment of the SRS to adopt. And, if he appreciates the opinion of the Health Committee, I'll remind him if he doesn't know, although he wasn't on that board, I assume the advisors have passed on the information that six members of the Committee voted in favour and four against. However, I see that some of those members who voted against are no longer MPs. If you respect the opinion of the Health Committee, and I responsibly say that the representatives of other parties representing the position, from New Serbia, the DSS, have also voted in favour of this amendment, and if you show, as a man of the profession and as a man who has repeatedly advocated humanity, that you can appreciate the work of the SRS MPs and that you contribute and vote some of the amendments to the SRS, I will no longer go out for a pay phone and talk to you, to show that it is not the goal of talking and to criticise you. I'd have a lot to talk about, first of all, the Old Town Health House, where you've replaced the board of directors and boards just because the director wasn't at your will, or because the director didn't respect what the board of directors were doing completely, and I have this kind of paperwork. You just looked in my direction and said I had a big file. I can indeed deliver to you, and I guarantee that I have a kilo of documents from the Old Town House of Health, meaning in downtown Belgrade, so that, say, the management of the Leskovac Health Centre hired 42 workers from non-medical activity, and the moment they came to power day and night, they met the workers with posters that were glued to the walls of the hospital and in which they wrote - there is no job available. In view of this behaviour of leadership, the question arises to whom these notices were addressed, for which reasons and for whose interests, and possibly to doctors. So I'm saying I won't answer again, but if the Committee has accepted this amendment - I explained, nothing really changes your law, because your objections are that we are fundamentally changing your law – I think you should show good faith. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23319	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23320	Since you didn't understand my intervention, I intervened because of the noise, not the number of people. You got tired of your activities, so you didn't understand me. (President: I understand you, but when it's full of halls then it can't be very quiet. Look how calm and quiet it is now. So it's desirable to make noise when it's full of joke and then it's a fair, a colleague. We're going to this member of ours, we need to wake up and move around a little bit. And that wit of yours is good. What we resent absolutely is changing the term public health. My colleague made it clear that the term existed in England in the 19th century, and that our teachers, mentioned by Batut and all, translated it "national health". That absolutely language can be followed and proved to be true. This is a definition of the term for planning, organisation and management of the health system, one of the former officials of the World Health Organization. It's nice there -- the health of the people, and it says like this: "Thermine's public health has gone a long way with us lately and replaced the term of people's health, which has been in use for a long time. We suggest that we return to the term of the health of the people or people's health, which is more appropriate to our language. "A large number of people in social medicine feel the same way. They asked us not to miss this. Mr. Secretary went out for a pay phone... And here are the many different definitions, which means public health, various conferences from 1956, as defined, so Winslow's definition. You also have here how the English Committee defines public health, so you have what the Saitama report is, from a public health summit in Japan, which was held in 1991, where a term of new public health is being introduced and where health care should be expanded, that I am not saying all this now, that I am not bothering all of you. In addition, this term "national health" should remain, for it best explains in the spirit of our language what this term covers. And the Bureau, as my colleague Cvetanovic suggests, should keep that name. The Institute for Protection in Slovenia is not called the Institute for Public Health. They're waving their heads at me for a different name. What's her name at the Ljubljana Health Institute? Is the protection "public"? I asked the Slovenians, they say it's not public. We'll ask more, maybe I've been deceived. Why are you running away and why you're tearing down a good term that describes the right thing, you'll explain it to the professional public. We suggest that you don't do this, that you don't degrade the system. You're no smarter than Batut and that first founder of ours mentioned here. I think you absolutely need to accept this amendment. But times change. Now the relationship of power is like this in this House, God will give, in a year we will change. Accept that, too, we will surely return to what is normal, appropriate to our language and to the people’s spirit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23321	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23322	I suggested that article 55 be deleted, and article 55 says that private practice can be established: 1) an unemployed healthcare professional with a professional exam; 2) a health care worker of an old pensioner, with the consent of the health care professional chamber. In order not to get the wrong impression, we don't mind private practice dealing with these categories of healthcare professionals. Basically, we have nothing against private practice. Why are we asking this member to be deleted? It's precisely because we want to make as much of a level playing field as possible for all those who can deal with it and make no difference, at least where it doesn't have to, between health institutions. In Article 45, it is specified that health care is made up of health institutions and private practice. Health institutions can be in state property and can be in private property. It's under this bill of law. The question arises, if health institutions can already be in state and private property, why is the third category being introduced, which is private practice? In the government's explanation, I don't know if they've expressed themselves awkwardly, but as if they wanted to insult the applicant, it is said: "The proposed amendment can conclude that the amendment's proposal did not detect the difference between health institutions and other forms of healthcare, or private practice." And as we've seen the difference, but we don't accept that difference. There is no reason to suggest, for private practice, by its very name, that it may then provide a slightly lower level of protection from a health institution, and that is not the case. If it wasn't for that, here, let's take a walk through this bill. Article 49 defines the conditions to be met by a health care institution in order to register and to be able to carry out its work. There are some four points: 1) if there is a certain number and type of healthcare professionals of the relevant degree of expertise; 2) if there is diagnostic, therapeutic and other equipment; 3) if there are adequate reception, treatment facilities, etc.; 4) if there is an appropriate amount of medicine, medical resources, etc. These are the conditions to register a health care facility. In Article 58, we have a number of conditions that must satisfy private practice. Then we have four points, so I don't read them again, it's all the same, it's completely overwritten. The only difference is that the promoter says that private practice, about, does not perform all the health work, but only one part. In addition, each health institution does not provide a full range of health services, but depending on the level of health care, what it has in particular, etc. So there's no reason for this kind of force and mechanical, classification, private practice to separate itself from a health institution whose founder is a natural person, or private person. At the meeting of the Health Committee, we heard from the minister who is a key difference, from his point of view, which is that the one who sets up private practice, which is an unemployed doctor or user of retirement, that they are physically working on their own in this private practice, and the privateer who creates his own capital a health institution, about, as I understand it, does not work, but does not even have the right to work. It doesn't have to work. This is not a sufficient difference, or specificity, which requires that it be completely separated. I think that the aim of the promoter is not to allow, in time, a health institution whose founder is a natural person to slowly draw closer to state-owned health institutions and on other grounds, the right to participate in the resources of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, etc., and in some ways to suggest that this is still a little lower level of health care. This could be the first step if our goal is to equate private and state property in the field of health care, even if there is some kind of discrimination here as a first step.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23323	I thank Mr. Nedeljkovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before moving to the next amendment, allow me to, in accordance with Article 85 of the 5th and 6, inform the MPs that we will extend today's work after 18.00 hours if the need to complete the debate on this law is indicated, taking into account the importance of the law, as well as the end of the session. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23324	This is a set of members who introduce radicals inappropriate discrimination against the private sector. An artificial division into private practice, which is explained in a strange way, the people cannot understand or understand. We simply say that there are health institutions and these health institutions can be privately owned and can be state-owned; this is the beginning and end of the story for us, and now you can tighten and invent as much as you want, we don't mind. A moment ago, Mrs Simic nodded me, she says - the health care office is a public health office. We're talking adjective or a contribution? Publicly, there can be both adjectives and a contribution. In the Serbian Academy of Sciences' dictionary in the eighth, everything has not been done yet, you have adventurous meaning and six meanings. Find me yours there to cover, so we'll either congratulate you or sign up to the Lexicographic Service, so we can expand that meaning. It's in this eight, and where you found it, so I can buy it. So, don't tell me for the phone book that it's adjective, you know so much about language. So, the Health Services. Protection is a noun, as far as I know. You can claim it's not, it'll remain a noun, believe me, and we're talking about adjective. Adjdev is healthy and that's quite clear. We asked that article 56 be completely deleted for exactly why it now says that private practice can be established and then lists how; it is said – as a doctor’s office, i.e. dentist, polyclinics, laboratories, pharmacies, clinics, dental labs and the end of the story. Here private practice is limited to multiple visions. If the private and state sectors are equal, then they have the same rights, and in the private sector all types of health institutions can be established, except for those with public authority, such as the Health Protection Institute. We fully understood that you had to exclude certain actions and this is necessary because of the general social interest. Not all private practice should be allowed, although someone will want to discuss it that way. So we think this is one totally discriminatory member. We have abolished the rights of Serbian citizens to be able to choose. The right choice is that I choose to go to a private office, where the better conditions are, or I'll go to the state, where they're better again, but maybe worse conditions. You've limited the right of citizens to choose, and you've declared that to allow this law and the insurance policy, by saying that it's only the fund that makes the contracts, and then from what the fund has concluded, we'll be able to choose. So that's one limited choice, and we think it's wrong, and this is discrimination against the private sector. There's one interesting thing. I took a summer look at the press. We're working hard and it's hard to examine, but I've been through the media. We are discussing a large set of very important laws for this country, but it is interesting that for the media it is much more important who has "flighted" into which party, who is the candidate for the next "flight". Public media and these various "false" programs, when you turn on their programs, you find yourself in paradise, then the atmosphere of well-being is created, one of the mending pre-make-up atmospheres in society, doesn't really care what we're talking about here. That's not an accident at all. And it's one of the mechanisms that fits into the painting package, working five hours in continuity, after two days of continuous work on these laws. We SRS MPs absolutely won't bother this person here who works, technically. We apologize to them for being exposed to having to, and there was no need at all for them to work in this way, to be separated from their loved ones. Sunday is, for those who are Christians, a day that is absolutely not meant for these things. Of course, we understand also the circumstances when emergency conditions are, when war is, although all of this looks a little like a war between the SRS and Mr. Minister and his team. The war isn't, this is just one exchange of views, which are obviously opposed. We won't be able to tell you things, especially what is happening in Article 199, because if you open the latest NIN, read what they told you about your solutions. It's interesting, I know you don't like those who don't applaud you, who don't accept the apriors what you say, but it's part of public opinion, so it's useful to have that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23325	I thank Mr. Momchilov. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of 56, regulate when and under what conditions private practice can be established. Of course, the law needs to be comprehensive and to specify the exact conditions of who and when it can establish private practice. If I have taken a good look at this Article 56, here you can see when private practice can be established, in the first part; of course, in the second part what all private practice cannot do. It is evident that here there is absolute discrimination of the private sector in relation to the social sector and health institutions, because there is no single reason that private practice, the private sector cannot establish anything if there are conditions for it, and of course it is known what are the conditions - professional staff, equipment, space and all that one activity requires for its performance. But what's interesting here in this article, and for which I have made an amendment, is that in Serbia there is executive, legislative and judicial authority. The executive power cannot be above the legislative authority. And therefore, when a law is passed, it needs to be clear and determined to specify certain things, when and under what conditions something can be done, done, or in this case established private practice. What I consider to be a terrible problem with this Article 56, is that it says that the private practice referred to in Article 1(5) and (6) of this article can be established by a healthcare professional with an adequate level of education, i.e. by means of a medical profession, in accordance with this law and regulations adopted to implement this law. Of course, it says below: "The private practice referred to in Article 1(2) of this article can be established by several health workers with high school training, in accordance with this law and regulations adopted to implement this law. "I think this law should be prescribed, and there is no way to pass regulations on how a law will be implemented. Sublaws cannot prescribe legal conditions for the establishment of private practice. And that's what will, of course, create the possibility of some sublegal acts being a certain space, so this equipment will be sought, so that equipment, so of course someone will say that private practice takes 200 squares of space. I'm merely quoting as an example. I don't think that's gonna happen. And then, of course, all these people who have the opportunity to open private practice, and they don't have 200 squares, will be prevented from opening up the practice. So I think that when the law is passed, and the law needs to improve current solutions that are not good, it should regulate absolutely everything. And I'm just agreeing with the minister, which he said at the beginning of the debate, that the law could be thinner and thicker, and shorter and longer, so of course we didn't mind having to prescribe what basic conditions are. Of course, what is now something a profession requires? It's the conscience of every doctor who wants to practice private practice. Of course, he commands him to have the appropriate equipment he needs to perform that activity. What is known for each office is, for each private practice, necessary, minimum necessary to perform. In some ways, the executive authority has taken over the power of the legislative authority and will, of course, cause problems in practice. I'm sorry that there was no understanding, and there seems to be no understanding of any amendments made, and I don't think that's right, because there are certain contradictions in this law. It says below – private practice cannot perform health work in the area of emergency medical assistance. Here, I have one amendment, and I'll talk about it later. Then it's private practice that he has to provide emergency medical attention. These are all some of the things that are in this Article 56th confusion, and I think it is inappropriate for the executive authority to take the power of the legislative authority. If something is not regulated by law, by sublaws of some, it can be regulated by simply, in the extreme line, one act such as private practice and preventing it from being carried out. I thought this amendment would... and I appeal to the MPs to think about it anyway and not simply allow the executive power to be older than the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23327	I thank Mr. Vucicevic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58, which reads: "Article 58 is deleted". I have to quote my esteemed colleague from the ruling coalition who said on the Health Committee, this is a quote: "The health care bill is not good for the private sector, because it is quite repressive, and the existing law is better and more liberal than the one proposed. "With this finding, we also agree with the SRS and say that it is true that the health care bill is discriminatory according to private practice. The conditions to be met must be unique for private health institutions and state health institutions. If the private and state sectors are equal, then they have the same rights, and in the private sector all types of health institutions can be established, except perhaps those with public authority, such as the Health Protection Institute. Serbia's constitution in one of its members says that the two categories are equal, so state property and private property are equal and there is no way to introduce inequality and discrimination in the private sector. The conditions can be set, and whoever meets them can work, whether it's a state or a private sector. In the end, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister a question: why aren't the paid workers who retired on their own free will, and you promised to pay the severance payment? There's only one example I'd like to give. Several health workers called me from the Krushev district and asked me to ask the minister and the government why they failed to meet their obligations. That's why I'm asking, as an SRS MP and a man of the profession, that the government immediately execute this payment to the workers and end with false promises. This has been my obligation to health care professionals and all other citizens who have had a lot of false promises from this government. That is why I hope that the minister will accept my amendment and at least reduce the dissatisfaction of all health workers and other citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23329	I thank Mr. Vukovic. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just a little bit attached to my colleague and I'm saying -- this is a whole set of members who discriminate on private practice. This is all that's been added here. It's got to be for the state sector. It can't be a special chapter for private people. They're not supposed to stand out separately, they're not black sheep and dumb sheep. So it's the same performance and it has to be the same conditions. Therefore, they are the same, but you are talking about private practice in particular. They can't be marked, you have no right to do that. As you have imagined, I would like to draw your attention only that this member of yours is contrary to Article 46, if he looks closely. And then, in part, with Article 10, where social care measures are being taken. What guides you and guides you to limit private practice, except for some social interest? Now let's discuss it. If you're being run by something so you don't let the private guy stay in the hospital, work in private and start a hospital, what we talked about on the board, be Paja Momchilov, the obstetrician, and start a maternity ward and work in it and you don't give a social interest. What social interest does that give you, how can you establish such a thing, this social interest of yours? You can define it. In article 10, you did not overlook what you banned from the private sector that it was a social interest. Then we wonder, because you didn't put it there that it was a social interest, so we would understand and then you would go out clearly to the public and say – people, the social interest is to limit it. Then you put it there in article 10 that it's a social interest and then it becomes much clearer to us. This way we don't understand anything. This is causing confusion and it's pretty hard to understand. It is difficult for us doctors, and I can hardly think that it is difficult for the citizens of Serbia to understand. So you can do whatever you want, legal gymnastics, this isn't logical and, after all, this isn't how you go to Europe. In Europe, there are hospitals with private doctors, which can be, as in England, and state-owned, it's not a problem. You have their system, but you can't limit health care facilities to only one middle level, to a polyclinic, and then you say-- no more can. You can't say that the social interest, that in state hospitals, the situation is better. No, the mass of examples you're listed here is that there's chaos in state institutions. Your colleague told you in Old Town what's happening to you, what the director is doing. He's illegally raising salaries to whoever he wants, your inspection finds it, he writes a solution, and then you change the board of directors who pointed to the board of directors, and then you bring in a second one, and then the other board of supervisors and the board of directors tells you the same thing. Don't tell us that this state sector, the social sector, which now becomes this law of monopolies, is better and better. It is not true that privatisation will bring chaos to Serbia's health and citizens. He won't. One private institution can do far more economical business, if you give regulations and if you control the system in the right way, that there is no abuse; if it is a quality treatment method, then don't be afraid that citizens will be deprived. Citizens will probably privatize with us controlled, what you say carefully, and I say balanced, will only be won.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23331	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23332	Just a brief intervention that answers several questions raised in previous exhibitions. From the World Health Organization document - Better Health for All in the third millennium, all the goals of this World Health Organization strategy are contained in a document called "Better Health for All in the Third Millennium", with an action plan by 2015, which is a document of the Ministry of Health that was adopted on the then government's Council for Health and the Assembly Committee on Health and Family in the previous term. So, strategic documents related to politics and strategy and how they exist. Social concern is a broader notion, I would not further elaborate, I think I've talked about it enough already, but social care involves actually partnership, in the best sense of that word, which brings together both government and NGOs, individuals and employers. Therefore, the reasons for social concern would not further spread. Of course, in the amendments everything that has been celery and purpose, a total of all amendments to this law one fifth to one quarter has been accepted. I didn't make an analysis at all which was an amendment from which the parliamentary groups came and of course it wasn't a reason at all. The reason for refusing something is essential, not any formal one. It has been mentioned occasionally confidential and voluntary testing, with a dose of misunderstanding of that concept and I wouldn't explain it further. HIV testing must be confidential and voluntary indeed, and these are very serious categories. There are things that are never decentralised in the health system, such as analysis and monitoring of the health status of the population, such as plans and programmes, planning and development of personnel, and the other one is subject to decentralisation, however, before careful judgment and reflection. I wouldn't go into occasional claims that don't stand at all. It was even said that there was nothing at the Institute of Oncology. This will be better judged by colleagues who are likely to listen, watch or see if there is really nothing in the oncology centres in Serbia. The continuity of healthcare – at one point the principles are commented. Of course, in this law it must be the principle of functional integration, the principle of continuous quality improvement, and that is a significant novelty. Family medicine as a concept has never been an EU condition, and that sentence is sometimes spoken here. Finally, the EU does not set any conditions regarding the organisation of health systems. There are directives that should be incorporated and they are in all these laws when necessary. Even termologically lately is constantly spoken - family medicine or general medicine with the institution of the chosen doctor. The choice of doctors and institutions, institutions and private practices – once more, it is necessary to clarify this dilemma, as misunderstanding can occasionally be seen. The health care institution works, among other things, and according to the Law on Public Services. A health care facility can also be established by a legal and physical person. One of the MPs here said if he could open the maternity home. A special hospital for gynaecology and obstetrics, which also has a maternity ward. Why is private practice even defined as something special? Because it is special, because it is established by the personal work of an unemployed doctor or retired, with the consent of the chamber, and it does the job as a personal work of a private entrepreneur and applies this law and the Law on Private Entrepreneurship to institutions of the Public Services Act. Therefore, conditions are unique, regardless of ownership structure. You can say not the unique, but the exact same, from the first to the last letter. Why aren't the terms in the law? Because the sublegal act that regulates the conditions at this point has 100 pages. The Law on State Administration, which has just been adopted by the Assembly, has made it quite clear that it empowers the Minister and the Ministry to adopt acts and regulations for the implementation and application of this law. At one point, a sentence has been spoken which shows that it is necessary to clarify that the provision of emergency assistance to citizens is an obligation for every healthcare worker, wherever he is located, but the exercise of emergency medicine is something else and falls within the order of activity for which the state estimates that it is of public interest to be organised only in state-owned institutions. I repeat, there is no fundamental discrimination against private practice. Private practice by definition is a form established by the personal work of an unemployed doctor or retired, with the consent of the chamber, and it is performed as a private entrepreneur. That's the difference. And a health care facility has identical conditions, no matter what the structure of ownership is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23333	The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23334	Mr. Minister has responded to some of our remarks and that's good, but probably time and fatigue do their part. What we've been saying is not what you're answering. I was clear when I said that the lecturer wanted to introduce family medicine, as recommended by the World Health Organization. That's what I was talking about. It's completely clear. Don't nod your head, stop it, behave yourself. Deputy Minister or Assistant Minister or Minister's maid, I don't know what to call, no-head, and he says, "You don't know." Okay, and if I don't know, I'm allowed to, I'm an MP. You're an expert, that you're not ashamed to make a statement from that bench. I'm allowed that, you're not allowed. Mr. Minister, he's an authorised representative of the government, don't beat yourself up where you don't belong, he represents the government. It's very incorrect, you're breaking protocol. If he doesn't let you say you can't talk. You're not a minister. You don't appreciate the minister's institution. You're tearing down his position. How can you not be ashamed? When he lets you talk and throw away, to make a market and street here, that's scandalous. How can you not be ashamed? My God, you're a professor of medical school. I would never throw it to you in such a way, I would always listen to you, and I wouldn't allow it. What you're saying -- you don't know, your colleagues might say the same about you, so I'm not saying it, I'm not saying it. Come to your senses, please, show some civil respect and culture at least. You're on a high-ranking job. Don't let me give you such sermons. To take the European definition of family medicine from 2002, and now you're going to say -- you don't know, you could have applied it to us, because UNICEF here took over research, maybe with you or with someone from Batut, and they said citizens, 70% of them were family doctors. It is clear to us, Mrs Simic, that the European Union does not prescribe what has to be done, it gives directives. They would not agree to serious Member States, one France, Germany to prescribe what they must do. It is clear to us that the World Health Organization says that there is no ideal model and that everyone has to find himself. Don't pay any respects to us that we don't know. You, Mr. Minister, please raise some level of your exposure. We know there's no ideal model and we have to find our own. Don't go to that ground level of demeaning. We make specific points, we name a concrete document, and then some air-conditioned head, I don't know. That's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23335	Of course, I ask everyone who participates in this Parliament's work to behave according to their position. Co-workers to advise the minister, the MPs to address the minister and the MPs, so that they are all in place. In order to carry out consultations, in order not to discuss this further, I am giving a break of 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] We're continuing our work. Mr. Markovic, I know you're reporting for a replica, but can you wait for me to read something? Given that we are before this break, i.e. At the beginning of this afternoon's work, the resignations of the MPs after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that conditions have been met to confirm the mandate of the Members of the People, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), should be approved. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Miroslava Gusic and Marko Kronja, elected from the G17 Plus electoral list - Miroslav Labus. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Miroslava Gusic and Marko Kronja. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, now you have your word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23337	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the basic obligations, one of the first obligations of the chairman or president is to safeguard the dignity of this light house, this high house, to preserve the dignity of the MPs of the people. But recently, in the last few months, it has been practice for ministers to come out here and give political speeches, and the minister is only here to answer some questions, the minister is here to clarify some of the concerns MPs have in considering legal projects before they adopt them. In particular, it must not be allowed to assist the minister's staff, no matter who they are or what they are, to cast to the MPs who come out here and say something. The next time such a thing happens, the SRS MPs will ask the chairman to remove all these deputy assistants or officials from the ministry and allow normal work by the Assembly. It's amazing that besides the minister, who's here and who's supposed to answer the MP, they get, they nod their heads, so there's some clerks who came from the ministry. Serbian Radical Party MPs will no longer suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23338	I thank Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else have a desire to speak by article 58? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every word in the law is important. Of course, she has the famous sentence Stalinov – in Siberia, not to death. We were just talking, I think, I don't know which member of chapter five, so we talked, patient and then, of course, citizen. It's right here... And I thought it was normal for that term to be a citizen. The term - patient, already here in article 62, says "provide emergency medical assistance to all citizens". Give emergency medical attention to all patients, because it's the usual term. This is just to say that those people who made this law didn't exactly measure every word, so a citizen is mentioned somewhere, and a patient is mentioned somewhere. I'm about to mention a patient everywhere. It wasn't the essence of my amendments. The essence of my amendment is, number one says here – private practice is required to provide emergency medical assistance to all citizens. With this amendment that I have submitted, I wanted to in some way protect private practice and to say that it should read – provide emergency medical assistance according to my abilities according to profession. Why? Because there are medical practices of different profiles, and of course there are different situations when someone is addressing emergency medical care, so the basic question is: if a dentist who has a practice comes to someone with cardiological problems, whether he is professional and whether his private practice is equipped to professionally and adequately enable a patient, or as stated here - a citizen, to provide emergency medical attention. I don't think he can, that he can only provide help according to his abilities, and the possibility is knowledge and, of course, according to his profession. This is why, in practice, it will happen that, just as I have stated, a cardiologist comes into private practice with a doctor, that this one is not professional to provide him with help, to waste enough time and to cost him his life. Of course, other complications arise from that, that someone would tell you that you had kept the patient for a certain time, and that time was enough for him to report to an adequate medical service, had a chance to survive. The second part of the amendment refers to point 5) which says that private practice should highlight the health care price list and issue an account for the health services provided. Of course, I would agree absolutely with this point 5) as it stands in the law, if that obligation had, of course, social health or health institutions. I think that just to point out the health care valuer must primarily apply to social health, because it is of much greater interest to patients, and in some ways the privateer makes it look more like a butcher shop than private practice. The issue of an account, since health institutions are not subject to the issue and typing of fiscal accounts, I absolutely consider it normal at the patient's request. The third part of which I have invested the amendment here in the law says – it organizes, i.e. providing disposal measures, i.e. destruction of medical waste, in accordance with the law. I think this is going to create a terrible problem with private practice, and I think it's a very serious point and it's necessary to regulate the way medical waste is dumped. If this is the obligation of any private practice, it will significantly accumulate the opening of private practice and make it impossible for many young people and those who are willing to organise and open private practice. Of course, I find that medical waste is now inadequately delayed. There's a legal way to put it off, because it's causing a lot of problems, so I don't explain it here. I felt that destroying medical waste, as an obligation that would impose any private practice individually, would be a great expense to private practice. I therefore suggested that this point 7 be changed and that it is – organised, i.e. providing disposal measures, i.e. the destruction of medical waste, the conclusion of a contract with the nearest health institution that must ensure the disposal and destruction of medical waste, in accordance with the law. Why? Because immediately in Article 63, it states – private practice must (not read all) ensure continued access to sanitary transport, by concluding a contract with the nearest health institution that can provide Sanitary transport. Then he says that some other diagnostic methods, too, must have private practice by just concluding a contract with the nearest health institution, that is, private practice. I believe that every health institution has opportunities to collect and destroy medical waste and that, in the future, if we want to join the EU, it will have to do so in a modern way to collect, delay and process medical waste. The conclusion of private practices agreements with the state institution for the disposal and processing of medical waste would only benefit society, and thus contribute to the social sector, which would do so for the private sector, could provide itself with additional financial resources, and that, by accepting these amendments, all of this would be regulated. I see no reason not to accept this amendment, because everything that is said here is absolutely well said on purpose, and of course everything in the desire to speed up private practice and private entrepreneurship, which is the goal and intensity of this country, and of course the future. Of course, the opening of these private practices is possible in some ways for those who do not have great resources, and they want to support themselves and their family through this private practice. I mean, this first member, and just before the minister said, says - private practice is required to provide emergency medical attention. Article 56, which I said was in collegiate, says that private practice cannot carry out medical work in the field of emergency medical care. That's what it says: emergency medical attention and emergency medical attention. I would understand that here it is written "out of emergency, emergency medicine", which is already more complex, so to say - private practice cannot perform emergency and emergency medicine. That would be fine for me and that would be a difference for me. We know what an ambulance is, what an ambulance is, and that's what doctors need to know. The first aid is provided by every man or citizen, especially those who have a driver's license, because it is an integral part of the training to get a driver's license. It's a first aid kit. The ambulance, again, educated people, doctors, and I'm absolutely reading how it's written, so that's how I interpret it. That would be the essence of the amendment of this article 62, which I absolutely think, if these amendments were accepted, we would only sort of regulate closer to some things if there were no professional errors, it would facilitate the possibility of opening the offices and regulating the disposal of medical waste. I mean, maybe I'm wrong, I can't be 100% sure, that at least about 30,000 euros costs some mini-cam for disposal and processing of medical waste, which I absolutely think will burden all private offices and make it impossible for many to deal with this work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23340	I thank you, Mr. Vukevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I hope not, it's clear enough. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Jovic and Nikola Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Health and Family Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radoslav Jovic and Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23341	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 64, regulates when and under what conditions private practice is deleted from the register, and then lists, and points 5) says, if the founder of private practice sets up a working relationship, that is to say, he begins to carry out another independent activity as a basic profession, that is, if he is elected, appointed or appointed to a certain function in a state body, or a territorial autonomy body or unit of local self-government, for which he receives the salary. I suggested that this point be changed and that it should be said – if the founder of private practice sets up a working relationship, that is to say, he starts to carry out another independent activity as a basic interest, that is, if he is elected, appointed or appointed to a particular function in a state body, or a territorial autonomy body or a unit of local self-government, in the event of a conflict of interest. So he remained an absolutely identical member of point 64) as it says in the law, only he added: "in the event of a conflict of interest". Why? I don't think it's right that the founders of private practice can't be selected, elected and placed in those state bodies, in relation to all other citizens and professions. I don't see a single reason that someone has to shut down private practice, that it can't rest, that it has to be done in function, just because it's an MP, because the citizens chose it, because the boarder, has to shut it down, that there's no possibility of rest. I don't see any reason why he couldn't do the work. Why now, for example, is one federal MP supposed to shut down practice if their meeting is once a month or once in three months? Why does one committee member in the local parliament need to put out practice and cannot deal with his activity, when there is no conflict of interest, perform private practice, and once every three months he has a meeting in the local parliament? I think it's unfair, that it's wrong, because on that basis, all MPs and committees should lose their jobs or shut down, so when they end their mandate to re-employ and look for a job. That's one reason. The second reason, I don't see the right and why it's the right to delete, if someone opens another action. The law and the Constitution allow you to carry out more action. Based on all these activities, you pay your contributions. Do you have one, two or three actions, you pay contributions. It used to be that the only contribution to open one activity was paid, and later it was introduced that a contribution for each activity was paid. Especially when we know that some previous members say that the minister determines whether to work in one or two shifts, determines working hours, which I also think is not the most ideal solution, because for me it is the ideal solution that the minister prescribes minimum working hours, and whether I will work one, two or three shifts, whether I will last 24 hours or work eight hours, it is an individual thing, especially a man who has a private practice and pays taxes, contributions and makes an independent living. If the minister tells me to do one shift, then I want to do another work in the second shift; or, other actions don't prescribe that the founder has to work. I can establish an independent trade activity, where I'll be the bearer of independent commercial activity, but I'll hire people to do it. I don't see any reason for this Article to be treated so rigorously by private practice at point 5. I believe that all of this can but under one condition – if there is a conflict of interest. Where there is no conflict of interest should not be so rigorous, it should be permissive and liberal and allow people to work and carry out their actions and give the right, which is guaranteed by the Constitution to everyone, that they can be chosen and placed on certain functions without having to suffer the consequences and be punished for it. I think people who have private practice to this member are in some way forbidden to run and be elected, because they are conditioned by closing their practices, which is wrong. I hope the minister understands that it restricts some people from being in parliament, that they are also running for councilmen in their midst, and that if there is no conflict of interest... And the conflict of interest would be if someone had private practice and had to be a health minister, then I understand that you must either give up private practices or hospitals, or be a health minister. It's okay. If that's not there, then I don't see a single reason. I hope to meet this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23342	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this health care law at the moment has not answered the question of the system and the regulation of health services. The medical service provided for by this bill cannot meet the needs of citizens. These needs require that our citizens in this protection system be satisfied. If only a brief analysis is carried out and if you ask any citizens of this country if they are satisfied with the current state of health care, he will tell you, or most of them will say they are not satisfied. And this law does nothing radically improves the situation in this area. We believe that this law and the number of amendments received indicate that it is not defined enough and as such it will not go the way this law should go. We as the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such a proposal. We point to our amendments and we want to move a thread of this law for the benefit of the citizens, but we have seen that the motioner does not accept our amendments and that most of the answers to our amendments are irresponsible. I have submitted an amendment to Article 67 of this Act in front of the SRS and we want this member to be changed in the sense that, above the 67th subtitle "Assessing health technology" is replaced by "Introducing new health technologies and assessing the quality of the health technologies used". In Article 67, the words "health technology assessment" are replaced by "the introduction of new and quality assessment of health technologies in use". This is a newspaper compared to the current health technology assessment system conducted by the competent health technology assessment committee. We believe that this paper should be built on: "by introducing new and assessing the quality of health technologies that are in use". The chapter of health technology is unspeakable. It's about the procedure of evaluation in an extremely general way. The ministry should adopt an act laying down technologies at all three levels of health care and thus assess the implementation of new technologies. It should be subject to control, but according to an internationally accepted evaluation methodology, existing advantages, including economic benefits, provided by new technology. All these rationalizations we welcome, but not to the detriment of citizens, or patients. These new knowledge needs to be built on, and I think the health profession does it every day. I think we're a little bit behind in that sense, not to mention the opportunities we've had in the past, so far we've invested less as a society in these new technologies. There used to be more interest, probably money, and then we built and built objects that make up the backbone of the health system today. There is nowhere in the world to introduce any new technology into a protection system past the competent ministry, and within the ministry there are also these expert commissions. So, this article 67, we're just introducing you into an obligation and that obligation is for the benefit of the citizens. These commissions that assess health technologies are a trail of things that have to run in the direction of a better quality health system. The explanation I received on this amendment is not in line with my wish and the idea of improving this law. My amendment aims to correct this law, as I was saying in the introduction of the reasoning of this amendment. Laws like this, along with a number of members, make instructions. We don't want that. We want the law to be short, clear and concise and acceptable and meaningful for all citizens of Serbia. This law repeals certain health care standards. We've been telling you about our amendments and we're telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23344	I thank Parliamentarian Vitomir Plužarevic. Is anyone else on this amendment answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Blagica Kostic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23345	Mr Krasic Zoran has tabled an amendment to Article 71 in front of the SRS. A member of 71 has a nickname, "No advertising." In point (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 states: "Advertising the name of a health institution, i.e. the business name of a private practice, seats, works that have been established by a solution to the fulfilment of the conditions for performing health work, as well as working hours." Paragraph 3 reads: "The results in the application of professional and medical methods and medical care procedures can only be announced at expert and scientific meetings and published in professional and scientific journals and publications". Our intervention, i.e. Mr Krasic's intervention, which is a highly respected lawyer, who created the social programme, was at the head of the team that worked the program... It is often shown – you do not have a program. But we have this program. We believe that the results of the work of health institutions should be made available to the general public and that, in itself, does not represent advertising. If you predict something like this, you'll be collapsing with Article 41. This article 41 reads: "Citizens of the Republic have the right to information that is necessary for the preservation of health and for the acquisition of healthy life habits, as well as information on harmful environmental and working environment factors, which may have negative consequences for health. "So, health-preservation information. We think it is absolutely necessary for citizens to be informed of all the results achieved in medical treatment. Yesterday you had a chance to see a minister here who twice went out for a pay phone who said one good news. He said it was a successful transplant. Minister, you were the first to break Article 71, you announced the result of the treatment. You even said successful. If you said it was an operation and you weren't evaluating "successful", we'd say -- here, we have information about an event, but you've been estimating that it's a success. I watched the stenogram, of course you're going to check the stenogram, we're not saying anything by heart, so you're saying it. If you can, let others say – we have successfully cured so many heart patients, this and that. Why would that be something that would be advertising? If you were to speak falsely and you were to be called – come to me, I am better than others, it would be something else and it is quite clear. Therefore, citizens are no longer naive. You have the Internet today. There are websites on the Internet, and you can't ban anyone from showing the results of their work on the site. Go to America, to England, you'll see all the big hospitals, you'll see that you can get information about what they're doing there. You know that people can present their works online. If there is professional work available on the Internet for every doctor and if it is considered okay, why do you forbid our citizens to go online and watch the results published in the papers? You won't be able to do that. Now, I don't think there's anything going on, and if a man does good or does bad work, the patient needs to know. If the patient is at the centre of attention, and not these solutions your law gives. So, despite all the decentralisation you're carrying out, the way you're doing it, no citizen can decide anything. At the very beginning, you disabled him that he could not choose between private doctors and state doctors, so that a fund would appear, but you put an obstacle to the fund, which is an arbiter, which is a filter, which is estimated, of course, according to your proposition and rules, who could be the one who will be on the list to choose from the citizens. We just think that this is something that is restrictive, unnecessarily restrictive. I think quality work, let's say the MPs here, will be far more quality if we have more information. No need to brag, no need to lie, but the real information doesn't seem to bother you. If you know that someone did 300 bypasses this year, you'll go to that doctor for sure if you can, rather than the one who did 20. You have the right to know that information. How will you come to this information, to drag doctors and ask – how much did you do, how much did you not? I don't think anything like that should stand in your law. You will remain stubborn that you should, so now what we can do, the citizens will know all of this to assess that you deny them the right of you who claim that everything must be transparent. If so, in the next election, the voter's will will likely prove to the right degree, and some other government will change these laws. It's nothing new here. From day to day, we often supplement certain laws that have been passed quickly, which in practice show that they do not work, so they will not be able to do anything special with this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23346	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Is there anyone else on this amendment that answers the word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this government, the practice of declaring one man an institution. You remember all those laws where we pointed out -- not the minister, but the ministry. The ministry is an organ, the minister is only an elder of that body, a state official who performs certain tasks. In this bill, however, the minister was rather careful not to make that mistake. However, Article 58 behind point 4 says: "Nearer conditions, as regards personnel, equipment, space and medicines, for the establishment and pursuit of certain tasks of the private practice referred to in Article 1(1), are prescribed by the minister. "It should stand to prescribe the ministry, and the minister will sign. It's got to be an institution, a state body to prescribe. You can't give a man that right. Furthermore, Article 72, I have scrutinised these members very quickly, but Article 72 says, "The minister prescribes a way of internal and external labelling of health institutions and private practices. "We're back in a situation where we give it right to one man. I don't doubt this minister. I have no reason yet. I may doubt if any information appears. But if you look at what he decides in article 58, then you have to, and knowing the MP group he belongs to, you have to suspect a little. "Nearer conditions," said Article 58, "in terms of personnel, equipment, space and medicines to establish and perform certain health activities of private practice under Article 1 of this article is prescribed by the minister. "So he will be an alpha and omega and he will be the point of whether someone will be able to open private practice or not. In Article 72, "The Minister prescribes a way of internal and external labelling of health institutions and private practices. "Well, now I think of it, it was also some law regarding private practice... No, it was a law that Mr Dimitrijevic proposed to the Assembly, so he ordered the board to be 20 times 50 or 15 times 50. And it's going to be a marking, a private dental office, so I'm doing it, that and that. Letters must be the size of this text, so that everything will stop. I can say again, the ministry; the minister will sign, but the ministry is an organ. Finally, Article 83, where Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's MP submitted the amendment: "Nearer conditions regarding staff, equipment, space and medicines, as well as the way the minister prescribed pharmaceutical health work. "It's about private pharmacies, it's about a lot of people who have finished pharmaceuticals or they're already in this business or they're going to be forced into this business. And then one man will depend on whether whoever wants to open a private pharmacy meets the conditions regarding staff, equipment, space and medicine, as well as how to perform pharmaceutical health work. Well, I guess the way you do pharmaceutical health work is prescribed by some other law. I guess it's known that a farmer can't sell drugs, but he has to be a pharmacist. if the drugs are kept in cold, at a certain temperature. It's prescribed by some other laws. You don't have to put everything into this law, and especially one man doesn't have to load everything. Not to say one man is given this much authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23348	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23349	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently the minister of justice is undermining the foundations of health insurance and never the worst law... (From the O.R.: Minister of Health. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23350	Once a minister of justice, you always think you're a minister of justice. It's actually Petar Jojic, but we understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23351	This applies to health and social security. As for the five laws we've had so far, these days under review, I can say that these are laws that have never been worse, from 1945 to today, in the interest of citizens, especially patients and our poor people. The question is, if a citizen and a patient pays for a prescription participation, how does he pay for drugs? Under what conditions and why is he paying for drugs? Ladies and gentlemen, for example, in the health insurance law, Article 45 provides for health services provided for under point 1) of health insurance. However, under point 2), what is important is to say that this law, under Article 45 of page 22, provides that at least 95% of the cost of health care is to be paid from the means of compulsory health insurance. What are we going to do with people who need to do liver transplants, and this morning we heard that the price is 60,000 euros; 5% of 60,000 see how much it is. That's one thing. Also, if it is a heart transplant, if it is a kidney transplant, and especially the price of treatment for intensive care. How much does a day of intensive care cost? And how many people who have to go to the hospital and live to get into intensive care to survive, how many days will it be, and how much will it cost? With more complex operations, too. So 5% for poor citizens is very much. In particular, he says - intensive care at a stationary health facility, and on the following: "Operation procedures carried out in the O.R., including implants for the most complex and expensive health services, the most complex laboratory and x-ray and other diagnostic and therapeutic procedures (magnet resonance, scanner, nuclear medicine, etc.)". Imagine what is for those citizens 5%. "The treatment of insurance companies sent abroad" – here, the state says, it takes a child to perform a kidney transplant or to perform a complex heart surgery or liver transplant; imagine 5% for that family, how much it is. And the question arises, how much in that country does surgery cost? If it costs 200,000 euros there, well, here you go, you see 5%. That's 10,000 euros. On the other hand, at least 80% of the cost of health services from compulsory health insurance means that 20% should pay for the following services: examinations and treatment by the selected doctor and specialist doctor; laboratory, x-raygen and other diagnostic and therapeutic procedures not covered by point 2) of this article; home treatment... When it comes to home treatment, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises – if a man cannot go to a health care facility or there is no room and he is forced to be home to be treated, you can think if he is to be examined every day and given appropriate therapy from a professional, health profession, how much it will cost a day. Second, who determines the tariff for having home treatment? It will determine, from case to case, from hospital center to hospital center, director, because that's not foreseen here, how much per cent. Don't sublaw it. If you give sublegal acts the opportunity to set the prices for each of your "worships" so you will have the coloring. He's gonna charge 5% in Uzic, this one's gonna charge 20% in Negotin. If the law provides for it, and so it is said - it will be paid from the total price of 5%, then it is specified. And the citizen knows whether to call for help, help or not. He wants a cure, yes, but in that case he will know which medicine, at which he appreciates it, and whether he will have the money to take it out of his pocket to pay. There's the problem. You don't have to go over it. Citizens expect this parliament to prevent the adoption of the most harmful health insurance law, these petzakons, especially health insurance laws. We wanted, not to, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, there are a large number of doctors here who know better than I do; I am a lawyer, but I find out as much as I can that the prices are high, I find out that they are comprehensive, mass, from birth to death, they include our people who are looking for health services. I would also remind you: dental examinations and treatment related to tooth and bone injuries, as well as dental examinations and treatment of teeth prior to surgery of the heart and kidney transplants; treatment of caries in children and youth, tooth extraction as a consequence of cavities, as well as the production of mobile orthodonal apparatus; stationary treatment, as well as rehabilitation in a stationary health facility; treatment in a daily hospital, including surgical procedures outside the operating room; medical rehabilitation in medical conditions; medical and technical aids, implants and other means. At least 65% of the cost will be paid by the state from compulsory insurance funds, but the citizens will pay 30% for the following health services: diagnostics and treatment of sterility. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to fight the white plague. Here's how the minister sees this problem to solve. Two thousand euros is the least needed for a woman, a girl, to be subjected to this treatment when it comes to sterility. It takes 2,000 euros. From where? Making other aids for people 65 years of age; eye and hearing aids for adults, non-emergency medical transport. Now I ask you, a man suffers from the heart or has a serious illness and he asks for an ambulance and begs for medical attention to be given to him at home. Who appreciates it now whether it's necessary or not? Priced by a nurse or one who sits there and says – please bring him to a health care facility, bring him to a hospital, but by the time they bring him in, he's already out, passed away. These are the new rules that have now been introduced when it comes to ambulances. Allow me now, turn around, don't pretend to be a doctor, but as a citizen of the Chukarica, and ask for an ambulance to see when the ambulance will arrive. Why do these prices of drugs rise and why do citizens pay for such high participation? The Serbian Radical Party is determined and opposes the adoption of such a law, harmful to our citizens. I told you this includes a whole population that is sick, from birth to death. I am free to say, no offense, this is ultimately determined that this price of participation for our sick citizens is determined and that, in any case, it is in the pocket of our citizens, and to God, the minister has dragged his hand into the pockets of our citizens, as some tax authorities do. It doesn't have to be the tax authority of the Ministry of Health now. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps there will be answers here now, every answer will be inconclusive. You have no explanation, ladies and gentlemen, for who has proposed such a law because it is harmful and affects every household in our country, and the most difficult it is for the patients to never be able to receive the treatment, or the surgery, or the care that belongs to them under the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23352	The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23353	Mr. Chairman, I'm very embarrassed to answer and in some ways obstruct our very hard work today and I'd like to bring this in as soon as possible. However, I want to seriously resent Mr. Paja Momchilov, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, for allowing my distinguished colleague, Mr. Jojic, who is a lawyer, who is not a health worker, to mix up the subject first, so that today here he tells us about the health insurance law, which we ended the debate in principle and in particular the day before yesterday. I object again to Mr Paja Momchilov, who could inform his colleague Jojic about the basic things that this health care law regulates and brings, in the interest of the truth and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. These are dangerous misinformation, that five laws are no good. That's your attitude, gentlemen. You haven't made any arguments based on that. How can you lawyers interpret health laws? It's an honor. I didn't interpret any criminal law. It is not right, let it be your position, let the citizens of Serbia know what the SRS think and who runs the health policy in the SRS – lead the lawyers who are incompetent for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23354	The replica was reported by Ambassador Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23355	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I had joined this round of applause, so it would have been a little more thundering, it might have been nicer. You know that story about when Era went to the sultan and took him some figs. He says sultan -- figs aren't bad for you, Ero, so the first screws in his head. This one says thank you, Sultan. Then the third, the second, the fifth, all of the baskets ended up on Erin's head. Then he asks him at the end, maybe he was an aga, he wasn't a sultan -- is that, Ero, what does it mean to you that you thank me for every fig tree I've screwed up in your head? He says I'm helping you make a joke. That's how I'd give my applause to you in a joke. What's this about? You resented me for not training Peter Jojic, a top lawyer, former Serbian Justice Minister and Federal Minister of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia. The situation is just like this... (President: Not socialist, just federal. ) Mr. Chairman, please, you're awake now, now you're jumping right into my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23356	Mr. Momchilov, I've let you insult me several times, I won't let you insult me. I didn't wake up and don't sleep here, otherwise I wouldn't warn you when you say something incorrect. So, please, be correct. I let you discuss it whenever you want, but be correct, don't insult it, it's something that's personal insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23357	Okay, if you felt that as an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23358	Well, of course, since I didn't, yesterday you talked about it the same way, today, on what basis did you conclude?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23359	Then I apologize to you, but I said we've been working here too long. You come here occasionally, and we're already here for the seventh hour. You're breaking my concentration and disrupting and it's not easy for me to say something then that might not be appropriate. Understand that position, don't interrupt us, so when we're done, say, "You see, you've made a mistake, Momchilov, here and here, and I'll say, "Mr. Angelkovic, thank you for your kindness." Now let's get back to this topic. The Serbian Radical Party is not a Nazi party. No one tells anyone what they're gonna say in the U.S.S. No one's training anyone in the U.S.S. We're not a Nazi party, and in a Nazi party, that's how it is. What you have experienced that Mr. Jojic has now appeared is precisely the result that we haven't had enough time to discuss these things and now the ideas have occurred not to Peter Jojic, but to the people of his district, who probably said – say so too. That's it and nothing more. It is not a desire to abuse you, but to honor the voters who chose him and who led him to this, and he should never ask me for permission; there is no one in our country asking permission to speak, and we speak freely according to our will. It will never be a task in the Serbian Radical Party, neither Paja Momcilova nor Vukic, nor Tomislav Nikolic, and it has never been the principle that applies even when our President Vojislav Seselj was with us. We negotiate at our meetings and take our stand, which we later defend, and no one forbids to speak as he thinks and as the voters who choose him think. Therefore, do not forbid it and do not introduce it as a new party rule. It will never be a rule in the Serbian Radical Party, which is a true democratic party thanks to Vojislav Seselj. You don't believe it, and that's the living truth, I can swear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23360	Mr. Momchilov, I'm sorry you don't know me enough. Those who know me know I work as a jeweler and work as a kinetic clock. The more I do, I'm more rested, so you know, when ten hours pass, I won't be tired, not 15, not three in the morning. Don't worry at all, while you have time to discuss I have the strength and time to chair and listen to you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23361	I believe, Mr. Angelkovic, that you work as a dragster, but knowing that here a good group of MPs work as a jukebox, only when you put in the money they work... Of course, that doesn't apply to you, but a little speaker from this encrypted political organization or interest group, however, gives himself the right to hold a vaquel to the MPs of the SRS. It is true, Mr. Petar Jojic is not a doctor, he is a lawyer. Mr. Petar Jojic is not even a chicken, he can't lay an egg, but he knows how to recognize a kitten. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23362	National MP Petar Jojic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23363	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I said yesterday that we have ten or twelve honourable doctors who have won the academic title just as doctors from other political parties have obtained it. When we were working on the amendments, I said that we had consulted in the area of the law regarding health insurance. In our parliamentary group, we consulted with Dr. Paia Momchilov, a prominent doctor, Professor Poskuri, a respected professor of medical school and not to mention, there are others, Vukovic etc., our doctors and we have seen that there are shortcomings in these laws, we have seen that there are many things that are not properly set up. We noticed, because we made an important difference between earlier laws and these laws that are now coming from the field of health. I didn't make anything up. I said I'm a lawyer, I can't treat someone who's got some disease. Doctors and I can't do that, but as a lawyer, I can see, I can distinguish and I know the math so much – if 5% is needed in intensive care or for complex operations, it's very much for our citizens. If participation is to be paid up to 20% and 30% on certain medicines and health services, I, as a MP on behalf of the voters, come from Southbanat County, from Pancheva, have the right, because citizens are talking to me and asking me – will you adopt the laws you are discussing day and night. I say – believe me, I will ask the majority in the Assembly whether they will adopt them or withdraw them, if you adopt them know well that the MPs of the SRS do not participate, because Serbian radicals would never propose such a law, because it is a law that deeply penetrates the pockets of our taxpayers and our citizens of healthcare users. At least that's clear. It will be noticed by every citizen of ours because when he goes to ask for a favor or medicine if he needs to get it in the pharmacy, you are asked to pay that much and so much. Believe me, we believe our citizens are not so rich that they can handle these prices and these tariffs. That's where we differ significantly. I believe that the promoter could adopt certain amendments to the SRS because they are going to improve the text, as Dr Momcilov, Dr Poscurica and other SRS MPs have said. I respect and appreciate all my colleagues, equally doctors from the SRS and doctors from other parties, but I can tell you that we are only different from the fact that Serbian radicals recognize and are against drastic price increases, because we believe that medicines and services, the participation that citizens pay... Believe me, come out, gentlemen of the government, listen to our citizens a little bit, so you'll hear when you go to a health care facility in the morning and see those crowds and rows, you hear how much money anyone has, whether they can pay for the cure or not. At the Clinical Centre of Serbia, a woman came into surgery from Novi Pazar, they told her – you can survive if you get a parallel medicine. That drug was 30,000 dinars. They told her, with this drug we have, there's little chance that you can survive. However, two doctors from the Clinical Center gave a prescription and issued a drug that cost 30,000 dinars and that woman survived. However, when a refund was to be made, no one wanted to accept a refund from the authorities, so the two doctors paid for the participation, or each of them for 15,000 dinars. It is an honor for such doctors who have succeeded with their 30,000 dinars to help that woman survive because that poor woman did not have 30,000 dinars. Believe me, this isn't demagogy, this is true, and I believe most of the MPs are this and how well-known.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23364	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 94 provides for the possibility to add item 3 after Article 2 which would read: "Extremely, in the territory of a municipality, or city, more health homes can be established depending on the number of inhabitants and geographical distributions, in line with the plan of a network of health institutions. "The amendment was given in full well-intentioned view of the fact that in Serbia there are municipalities that have been displaced and that have an extremely large population, such as The municipality of Leskovac. The amendment was given by employees and by medical workers in the municipality of Leskovac. No matter what I'm a lawyer here, there has been a previous amendment to the discussion of whether lawyers can make amendments to health care laws or health care laws. It is desirable and good, for it is the lawyers who will point to certain solutions. The amendment did not want to increase the cost of decommissioning from the budget. The intention was only to provide for one possibility that another home of health could be provided in the territory of the municipality, or city. This Article provides for the possibility that a home of health in state property should be established for the territory of one or more municipalities, i.e. the city, in accordance with the plan. There is no obstacle in the law to foresee the possibility of establishing possibly another home of health. The government’s explanation, i.e. the Ministry, that the adoption of this amendment "will significantly increase the organisation of health services, i.e. increase the allocation of public spending funds, which is not in line with the need for the necessary restrictions and harmonisation of the same with the opportunities of society in general", does not stand. I would therefore ask Mr. Minister to consider this because what is proposed as a possibility is not an obligation to set up, because in the amendment itself, it means that you should be extremely careful - extremely and in accordance with the plan of a network of health institutions, more than one home of health, or possibly another home of health in the territory of a municipality, or city, and according to the number of inhabitants and territorial distribution. So, this argument that a largely expensive healthcare organization doesn't stand. I would remind myself of the possibility of establishing, exactly what we are doing, and another real possibility such as the one already envisaged by the bill, that even more municipalities, or the city can be predicted, should take the opportunity to establish another home of health somewhere in the territory of Serbia and in large municipalities. This directly means that, interpreting the narrow bill, it would mean that only one home of health should exist in Belgrade's territory. However, the broad interpretation of the proposed law can interpret that each municipality can establish its own home of health, so the municipality of Surcin, Grock or all of these smaller municipalities have health homes, and in particular the municipality of Leskovac, of 175 000 people, which includes several territories of former municipalities, which also has health homes built by all construction and other principles and which now function as health stations. Predicting the law that another home of health could be established, in line with what I said, the plan of a network of health institutions, nothing would increase the allocation from the budget and nothing would endanger the functioning of the state. This before predicting the possibility in the law, or in this provision, could possibly respond in those cases where justified. I would therefore like, on this proposal, if he understands me enough, Mr. Minister to declare at the moment whether it is possible to accept this amendment, so before I say, accepting the amendment does not increase the cost, nor does it require the budget to be drawn up, because it is just relying on and based on the plan of a network of health institutions that can predict and does not have to predict, again it is what restricts it, which is the budget, that is, the financial resources that the state has at its disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23366	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 96 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23367	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 96 is regulated when and under what conditions a specialist-consultative activity which is not related to hospital treatment can be organised in the homes of health, in accordance with the plan of the network. Of course, in the second part, in the second point, it says: "Extremely, in areas with specific needs of providing health care to the public, where traffic and geographical conditions justify this, according to the plan of the network, maternity care can be organised in the home of health and the stationary for diagnostics and treatment of acute and chronic diseases. "To the insistence of the members of New Serbia from Vrnjačka Banja, their request, application and explanation that was logical, we proposed and asked for the words "in the spas as natural goods of general interest" to be added in Article 96(2) after the words "or at home of health" were added after the words "health". This would mean that, in the extreme context, the amendment reads: "Extremely, in areas with specific needs of providing health care to the public, in spas as natural goods of general interest, as well as where traffic and geographical conditions justify this, in accordance with the plan of the network, in the home of health or at home of health, maternity care and diagnostics stationary and treatment of acute and chronic diseases can be organised. "Of course, this amendment absolutely justifies the existence and request of members of New Serbia, I suppose, for several reasons. The first thing the Bathing Law predicts, so it says, number one - organized health care. Of course, we know who goes and who visits the spa. That's where most sick people go. No one goes to the spa for cafes, restaurants, food or whims. I'm not saying there's no such thing, but 99% of those who go to the spa are going to be treated or, of course, to post-operative treatment or treatment of chronic diseases. If we want to develop tourism, it was normal for me and it would be normal for this amendment to be accepted. There is no reason not to accept this amendment. I've been given an explanation on the board that it's the Ministry's emergency at some other stage and that because of the limited resources, it can't. If we want to think wider, and this broader thinking makes us think that we need to speed up the development of tourism, the number of people coming to spas for treatment, both from abroad and from our country, and yet again, making profits in one country, I don't think that the justification I got stands as a right and a complete justification. It should respect the wishes of all these people who are in treatment not only in Vranjska Banja, but also in other spas, and of course, it should also come out to those patients who are being treated and people who are being treated and helped and how they need it. Imagine now, you have a pregnant woman who treats another chronic disease – she would have to go to the nearest hospital on some, I don't know, 20 or 25 kilometers in case of any pain or any problems from Vranjska Banja, and I think it's a center in the King. Our intention is the most well-intentioned and in the interest of those people who work in spas, patients and tourism development and, of course, the overall development of Serbia, who at this time cannot be praised for having developed economy; but, my God, with the help of the government, with the help of the laws being passed, the indication is that everything that is not good tomorrow is better. This amendment would absolutely allow in spas and better treatment for all patients who are there, would allow tourism to develop. I think the minister will have understanding, both for these people who work there and for patients who seek adequate healthcare, so, of course, for me in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, who I have tabled this amendment at the request of all members of New Serbia from Vrnjaka Banja. I want to point out that we did this in our best interest, of course, because of all those people who are going to use the service, and I hope the minister accepts this. As for that explanation I got, that should be in phase two, I think we should do it in phase one and it won't be a big expense to the Ministry. As we know, we do not have in Serbia countless spas, there is, that I do not list them now, one five-six baths, so I believe that Serbia can single out so many resources that the health service in the spas is on a satisfactory level, especially since there are a lot of foreign patients and users of the spa services. As a country that wants to kind of popularise Banjska's treatment in Serbia, we must leave an impression and we must not allow a possible failure, which is not so expensive, and in some way will undermine the reputation of those people in the spa and the reputation of Serbia, and I do not see a single reason and I believe that this amendment will still be accepted by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23368	I thank the People's MP. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I come as a National MP from the Kingdom, I have an obligation and a duty to report on behalf of the citizens of Vrnjačka Banja and Trstenik municipalities and at their request on the amendment proposed by MP Vukjević and to give further explanations on why the General Hospital in Vrnjačka Banja needs to survive as a general hospital and which are the reasons why this plan cannot be prepared by the network of health institutions, as the Government has given in its explanation in explaining the provisions of this law. I don't know if the minister knows when the General Hospital was founded in Vrnjačka Banja – it was founded in 1934, the hospital works in a building that has 2.5 thousand square meters – and that the current building was built by means of self-delivery of the citizens of Vrnjačka Banja and Trstenik, in 1989. In fact, it covers the area to meet these health services and hospital treatment for most of the citizens of Vrnjaka Banja and Trstenik municipality. The citizens of Vrnjačka Banja and Trstenik, as well as the OO SRS in Vrnjačka Banja and Trstenik, show the anxiety of citizens who have been born since half of July of the month when Vrnjačka Banja was visited on TV and radio by the General Director of the Health Centre "Studenica" from Kraljen Dragan Arsic, when the bill was already on public discussion, and stated that the General Hospital in Vrnjačka Banja will not continue working in such status after the adoption of this law. Given the interest of citizens and guidance in this long period of time, decades ago, and citizens of Vrnjaka Banja and Trstenika, and I must point out that Vrnjaka Banja is 24 kilometers away from the Health Center "Studenica" from the center of Banja. However, from those villages and settlements from the center of Banja there is far more, and Trstenik is about 50 kilometers from the King, and there is so much distance to Kruševec. I do not see any reason why the Minister or Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept this amendment, seeing how long this hospital has existed in Vranjska Banja and these reasons presented by the amendment promoter. In addition to citizens who have been sent to this hospital for decades, the number of guests is moving around 100,000 reported annually, and there are about 30 percent of unregistered guests of Vrnjačka Banja; there are about three thousand exiled and displaced in Vrnjačka Banja; the total number of people in Vrnjačka Banja municipality is 26.492, and Trstenik has 52 thousand inhabitants. That's why this hospital has to continue working in the same status. It would be terrible if, according to this plan of the network, the hospital in Vrnjačka Banja was transformed into a hospital for special purposes, according to ZC Director "Studenica" Dragan Arsic for geriatry. I'm not a doctor by profession, I'm a graduate lawyer, but I can understand all these reasons of citizens' anxiety over what was proposed in Article 96. That is why, as a People's MP, I was obliged to come out here today and state the reasons for the anxiety of citizens and Vranjska Banja and Trstenik and to state the position of the SRS parliamentary group to support this amendment of the MP. Given that this session is scheduled and with what agenda, it began with the budget law, with several laws very important for the Serbian state and the Serbian citizens, the SRS parliamentary group could not quickly and because of the time it had to see this too. I hope because of these arguments that we made tonight, the minister will accept this amendment. If he does not accept, I urge all MPs to accept the proposed amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23370	I thank the People's MP Miljak Četrović. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23371	This is the best example of how time can be used properly. Namely, discussions are actually knocking on the open door; it does not solve this problem by introducing amendments. We didn't accept the amendment to the government first of all because the organisation of extrabolic stationers is an exception that needs to be confirmed by the rule. The rule is that conditions must be met so that something, as an institution, would be valid for a general hospital or for a special hospital. This exception exists extremely, precisely because Serbia is a country, a republic in which there are certain parts of traffic and geographical conditions that it is necessary somewhere for a stationary to exist and as part of a home of health, just to provide the citizens with a hospital service when it is necessary. In the House of Health "Vrnjaka Banja", which is mentioned here, there are beds within the van hospital stationary and they will remain, but it does not regulate the law, nor the amendment, it regulates the network of institutions. I said, once we have passed the law and it appears in the Official List, within two weeks, the citizens will be able to see two important sublaws. One will talk about standards on meeting conditions, spatial, human and working, and the other will talk about a network of institutions. So we've wasted time needlessly; putting a special member of the law, which turns one exception into a rule, we'd put it in a position to prename it beyond any measure. Standards predict that in the House of Health, Vrnjaka Banja remains a stationary. All the other stories would spin us round. Therefore, the amendment would make an exception a rule, which is not good, and I'm telling you that there is a matter of standards and what a solution it will be. By the time I went out for the pay phone, I would like to comment on a few more views that have been made in previous presentations. It does not specify the minister or ministry how many shifts the founder of private practice will do because of his personal work, as a private entrepreneur, but it is reported in advance whether it is one or two shifts. The issue of personal work, as a basis for the establishment of private practice, distinguishes the private practice and form of it from a health institution. One member or more members who regulate that if someone is elected to the post where he receives his salary, then as founder of private practice, he can rest private practice for 12 months, and after that no longer. If he doesn't get paid where he's elected, then he can continue his personal work and make his income. Then, indeed, a few times something that is false has been brought forth. Organ transplants and a series of other serious things have no participation. It's just ugly to repeat something that we've been explaining for hours and hours. I wouldn't stay here any longer. Advertising is forbidden by the Advertising Act and we define it here only one part in two members and we make it very clear in the bill, which I think is correct, that the results of the professional work must be shown only at expert meetings. If I say a transplant has been done at the Assembly's pay phone, you will allow it, it is the publication of the start of the programme's realization of national importance. I also say that at a press conference in the Serbian government because it is the result of the start of a national programme. On the other hand, the law has not yet begun to apply. I will very carefully consider whether, since the start of this law, I can ever pronounce the name of an institution of which something has been said. I think in the predecessor's presentations, it's very precise. I am convinced that by implementing this law we will completely eliminate the situation in which the daily press, Sunday or magazine writes about things they have no idea about, mentioning numbers, figures, results that can sometimes stand, and sometimes they can't stand at all. I don't think that's really controversial. The legal system must be harmonised in one regulated country and therefore there is a Law on State Administration. He was recently brought to this congregation. Most MPs probably remember the exact members. The law says very specifically that the minister has a responsibility to bring instructions and sublaws. This is not made up by this minister, nor by this bill, but by the coherence, the compliance of all legal regulations, is an obligation that the minister also writes in this law to answer. Stationers who are out of hospital, I repeat, are no reason to change a member. Therefore, the amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23372	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23373	Mr. Minister, you have not responded to the previous amendment, so I am also forced to report for this amendment to Article 97. The amendment to Article 97 is due to the possible non-acceptance of amendments to Article 94, i.e. not accepting the possibility of exclusively being established in the territory of a municipality, i.e. the city can establish several health homes, depending on the number of inhabitants and geographical distribution, in accordance with the plan of a network of health institutions. The constitution, the law, is the plan of a network of health institutions. This article provides for the legal possibility of establishing several health homes, or pharmacies, these are the following amendments. I won't answer again, but on this amendment to article 97, I'll say what I intend. I expected Mr. Secretary to make a statement about this. I repeat, as regards pharmacies and health homes, leaving the legal possibility to establish more than one in the territory of a municipality, or city, does not produce any practical and necessary consequences. The plan of a network of health institutions is the basis, a sublegal act, as Mr. Minister just said, on the basis of which it can be planned to establish health homes or pharmacies. I remind you, there are municipalities in Serbia that are formed by joining more municipalities and having health homes, i.e. objects that meet all conditions, whose maintenance is more expensive than working. It's a case of home health in Gredelica or Wolfie. That's what I know best, and there are other cases like that. I point out, according to the bill, the municipalities of the town of Nis could establish five homes of health under the law. The town of Leskovac could only have one home of health. However, there is no status of the city yet, but the town of Leskovac is composed of several municipalities, where there are both conditions, and distribution and population. In practice, the possibility of setting up another home of health does not produce any concrete implications for the budget, nor does the reason for the refusal to accept the amendment to increase costs, i.e. the fact that the organisation of the healthcare service is significantly accumulated. If there's any other argument, I'd like to hear it, but that argument would have to be more significant. So I would ask, and I wouldn't take more time, I repeat, by predicting the legal possibility that something is being established doesn't mean that it will be established. This will be established if the plan of a network of health institutions allows, or if there is a pair, translated into a national language. It only prevents the possibility that from two municipalities, i.e. two cities lean against each other, I give an example of Leskovec and Nis, Nis, under the bill of law, can have five health homes, and Leskovac must have only one, regardless of the geographical territory of Leskovec is larger than the territory of the town of Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23374	Anyone else by the same amendment? Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23375	A provision in law would not be a provision if it did not cause the consequences of its realization. So if you were to write a provision that doesn't cause any real happening, then it's not a real provision. It is not at all disputed, one part of the exposition of the predecessors is given the answer. It is said that Nis who has five municipalities could have five health homes, and he only has one with branches, and Leskovac, who has only one city, still has no status of the city, but when he is a city he will have at least five municipalities and then could have five health homes if he has five municipalities. In the bill of law we give, there is a system solution that it says – Serbia has a basic unit of local self-government and it is called the municipality. A law on local self-government has made it clear in the Serbian Parliament that the municipality is the founder, among other things, of primary health care. The Health Protection Act says that primary health care is being achieved in a home of health, whether it's state or private, it's a public network of state institutions, and in a pharmacy. For decades experience in our country shows that it is possible to use a home of health with several limits that cover needs without any problems in operation. The largest home of health is the Home of Health New Belgrade, so Novi Sad, Voždovac, a home of health that covers 200,000 people, but this home of health has more limits and health cells that function in one reasonable and rational way. If we insist that each city or municipality comes out with its additional wishes to fit into the regulation, I fear that we would not have a regulation that brings the system but would have a list of good wishes that we make on paper. Then it's not a good law. It's possible and it's possible, but then we get to the point where we're going to have to change it quickly. Otherwise, the experience from our country says, and the propo argument that collecting and increasing costs is not a counterargument... It is a counterargument. Our country, fortunately, has a large network of health institutions. She has problems in certain areas where geographical, infrastructure problems exist. Some objective observer on the side doesn't make much sense that you have a home of health in which the maternity home is located. But we are aware that our health homes in certain geographical parts of the country must be adapted to these specificities. For Leskovac, there is a much smaller problem than for some other parts of the country, where there is much greater resolution. It seems to me that a concrete solution for Leskovac exists in this regulation and that it is not the only solution if it says that one municipality or city can form more. Of course, the city can, if there are more municipalities, but I don't believe there can be a city with the status of the city without any more municipalities, because if there are no municipalities, by definition he couldn't have the status of the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23376	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Cvetkovic, misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23377	Mr. Minister, obviously we didn't understand each other, but lawyers need to write laws. Paragraph 2 provides that "the House of Health in State Property", that is, under the bill, "is based on the territory of one or more municipalities, or the city, in line with the plan of the network", which means directly, those who are not in parliament from the DS, that it is simple interpretation. Simple interpretation is wrong, but language interpretation is right. So, on the territory of the city or municipality, one home of health, one home of health would be for 17 Belgrade municipalities and five municipalities. I deliberately made that comparison, because in my previous presentation, I pointed out that by some broad interpretation... And there's no need to interpret the laws, the law needs to provide for a possibility. I suggested that you predict an option that would be in line with the plan of a network of health institutions. You didn't get into everything else I said. Obviously, we talked about different things. I didn't ask to break the budget, I didn't ask to form health homes in every village, I'm not a locale for Leskovac. For the first time, I mentioned Leskovac and Grill, although I am two terms of office. I have tried to point out that this provision will not compromise the concept of the law, it is completely irrelevant from the point of view of the law to accept this amendment, in no way does it change the essence of the law because it is just laying down, which is said in the amendment, on the grid plan. However, the legislator is entering another mistake, so we will ask the question that authentic interpretation will have to be given by the minister; the minister cannot give authentic interpretation, this parliament will come to whether there can be more health homes in Belgrade's territory. Under this bill, the law cannot.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23378	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijailović Lune to Article 98. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23379	I want my colleague Cvetkovic to fight and win the war with the minister. We'll see how it goes, and of course, we have in our amendment recommendation a part of yesterday's repeated story, in which we presented the reasons why we think that a doctor of medical work should not be a selected doctor. It's proof that in this law we're talking about the content of that law. That says two things. First, that it should not have gone so aggressively against Jojic, who had reason to bring the public out with bad solutions, and secondly, to really overlap. So, I'm not going to repeat anything that I talked about the other day, about these reasons, about a doctor who specializes in medical work being a doctor, but I'm going to say only new reasons. The insistence on both laws speaks only of the part of consistency in inconsistencies. Of course, you're very well-known in that, but that's because I don't think you've prepared these laws well enough, that five laws, of which three really mattered, brought in the package, took us a lot of time, talked a lot, and you thought a little bit about the values and content of the law. You're practicing a public debate. And you know for a fact that you're having a public debate with the directors, your favorites, your constituents, the column heads, they get confused, they drink coffee, and they can't wait to see your back, and the privates ask you a few questions, and that public debate isn't fruitful. This is a public debate that is fruitful. Here you're just facing true opinions about what's wrong, to the extent that we're not supposed to talk in the halls, believe it or not, about solutions that are bad. So, rarely when we see, when there are serious laws, that this story is passed on there, because we all don't want to usurp too much time here, but each of those dots is mentioned, and the ambiguity, and by the way, they're born and some more. I'm going to say some more. They were talking about advertising. Is advertising when you bring the director of the Kamenica Institute to show on TV in the morning program how effective the operation is? What is it, advertising or not? You can't say it's not, and by law you forbid it. Is advertising a TV team when someone opens a professional convention, an event for the city or for the country, and on the screen is a diagram of success and an intervention? It's advertising and exporting, and you can put it under advertising. Secondly, you have made a commitment in article 63 to make sure that someone who is led in Article 56 paragraph 1) and 2) has to have a sanity, private practice, and in this case you make sure that they have to provide emergency medical attention in one of the members. Does it mean that a specialist doctor in Article 53(1), a skin doctor, when he goes astray, can, by law, have a heart patient who's having a hard time, who's bad, doesn't know how to help him, needs a dream. What's he going to do, by natural vocalization, with dermatological sanity? Of course, you're not interested, you're not listening, you're having pleasant conversations, you're chatting, and this is an argument to an argument. You don't care, you're gonna bring this in and tomorrow you're gonna have to, nice, beautiful women are being arranged in a leather infirmary, in a leather specialist practice, as it says, to have the chance to stand up to them, to have a contract. I think it's full of inaccuracy, it's full of vagueness, because the law is bad. Why aren't you supposed to put a medical specialist on yet? We say the first item, how many of the specialists of work do you have in Serbia today, those who remain in the dispensary for medicine, or institutions or institutes at the site of former gigants? At least 30 in Kragujevac. The flag has tens of thousands of employees, and there are thirty specialists, and there are those who have 40-55,000 employees. How now, on those who may be working one or two shifts, you will share these medical specialists adequately and all, as selected doctors, will have the same quota as in some home of health in a densely populated area. So the first principle will be discrimination, if they, so sophisticated, do the work of a general physician. Secondly, how are you going to ensure that a doctor in medicine works in three shifts, if the institution that exists cannot work in three shifts or is there no need? Or, even if it works, will it always match the doctor's shift with the patient's shift? That goes for health care homes, too. Where will the one who chose his doctor hang himself, be 1,245 when he gets sick this afternoon? The emergency service in many countries of health is not working until nightfall. He'll have another doctor. What if he doesn't like the other one? He's just gonna change doctors. They're just gonna text the fund and the director and change contract doctors, and the other one's gonna sign. So one solution that you haven't worked out thoroughly, no one gave you money, experimental model like in the King, to try it out, to see how it works. Can it work that well, does it all look that way? A clear concept, where there was a right to the choice of doctors; and no one was corrupted by anything. And if he came to another physician on another shift, do not be angry, neither by law, nor by God; he came, he was sick, he had to come. So, what are you going to do next? Let's get one more thing straight. Just about that one question, how many items there can be. How are we going to do with the teaching staff that works in institutions where there are teaching staff? What if someone wants to go to a professor, say, who teaches medicine, who's a doctor who specializes in getting attached, to be her patient? How's that woman gonna get to do a thousand exams and work at her place, and that's how she's gonna meet all the obligations in a normal working relationship in college, and you put that on her that she has to be. She's a doctor. The other thing is, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She's exempt from college teaching staff, but she's a woman. What if someone wants to? He says, "I refuse, you won't be on the list." And she's getting part of the pay. You all know we're getting paid, right? We're on it, brother. I'm also in college, I'm in the hospital. I don't know how in Belgrade. So, what are we going to do under these circumstances? What are we going to do, which is a transitional solution until it arrives, is it even going to go into the concept of a family doctor, a family doctor? We're now training doctors of general medicine, specialists. There's no profile nearer what's called. Family medicine. It's all gone: gynecology, and pediatrics, and a little surgery, internal medicine. We don't, but what have we got? We have a high-school medical school that teaches us someone who's going to be called a senior medical technician, I don't know what kind of professions, direction-- family medicine. Watch out, Vuksanovic's our tub schools. They'll come to your plate to hire him. Where are you guys going? Some of them are in their third year. You see, yesterday Karic opened up some university's key chain, sponsored something in Ćupria at Maric's, I don't know these gentlemen. I've never seen this Maric before. And he only invited some distinguished guests there. They had fame and I see Karic dropped in some college with that medical high, she was higher, now she's a medical school. The mass of the university has been anticipating events in the education system and has opened different directions to preserve independence – higher medical school, pharmaceutical school, medical school, etc. It's done by galamatias, but it's where the other institution, by the second law, teaches you borderline. Under Vuksanovic's law, subspecies cannot last two years. He doesn't mention it. You'll have to have her. What's without two years of subspecies? Specialization was two or three, etc. He'll have two semesters. How much? 60, 120 points. A year or two. So, some don't agree. Then how come this public debate of yours, when it's over, then you go to the ministries, split the laws, that you didn't agree with Vuksanovic what you wanted. Well, let's see how he does that law, you this law. You'll be looking for health specials, then he has to be there extremely in health care. Or, except in health care, where after six years there will be masters, etc. So you have a lot of misunderstandings, illogicalities. When it's done in practice, when you find a good lawyer... Besides, what about that doctor's lawyer who's the protector of the patient's rights in hospitals, etc. When they start to chat, like Mr. Jojic and the other lawyers, dissatisfied citizens who will obviously... You boasted yourself, a large part of the funds that are not spent for medical purposes, will be reduced now; we will not pay the cost of the funeral, we will not pay the costs of the trip, we will pay less. And we won't pay, I don't know, we'll pay less for the sick. Do you think about how many people work with private people, who usually rarely and miserablely pay, who otherwise look at them through triple dioptria when they go to sick leave, and they'll get even less paid, etc. I mean, you've come up with solutions that globally offer that will make it harder and harder for citizens, and it will be more expensive for them to exercise their health care rights. You'll put many specialists in an awkward position, such as a specialist in medicine work, where it will function as a general practitioner. You know that industrial giants are closed. There's no more work for medical doctors and now it's going to wait with 500 patients potential or 600 on the list, measured by, say, 1,000, 1500, 2000, as someone in large health homes will have. That's not the principle. You wanted to get away from the workers and the unemployed by introducing the chosen doctor, so there are - some don't work, others do more. You've introduced a second principle of legal regulation, which makes someone less, someone more, because they can't do medicine. How will, for example, medicine work, and that's a normal question, logically... Someone lives and works in one town, lives in the village and works in the city. That's where his chosen doctor of medical work is. What does that mean now? Whenever he gets sick, he travels from the village to the city to go there. Or to be defined as an employee at some industrial factory where there's medical work, to be identified as his doctor in the village, and to be there. No, I don't. Then there must be two. Then he's got to put on, and he can have two extremely chosen doctors, or he'll always run to his town. Maybe it can be explained, but it's terrible if we, who represent and represent, let's take a more formal education, or those to whom the law is closer, should in the nature of things be closer, with you to have these conversations, to ask a question, to question. You're to suit us. If it were clearly written in the law, there would be no such questions. A lot of laws have passed here. We kept asking questions. We did to Vuksanovic. Here we are to you. What's it gonna look like? What's gonna happen? When the law is well written – it doesn't have to be, even if it's this thick, it doesn't matter, we've mastered much bigger, you know how big Brownvald or Brenner is, then we don't have to ask so many questions. It's clear there, it's not all clear here. You have to admit it yourself, and many times explain to the MPs what you wanted with this idea, whether it was so much pressure from the IMF, whether we really have to agree to everything, whether this kind of restrictions on civil rights will really be necessary, what is finally the goal, what we get from the international community, if we agree to these restrictions that affect both citizens and employees in health care, and the private sector, and participation for services and drug participations. It is indeed something that is not particularly appropriate to this system, at this point you call the transition period of the state, and that very poor layer of citizens, which has two-thirds of the surety, each expenditure, each giving or every imposed solution will fall harder than the former.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23380	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 100th Amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Cvetkovic has already declared that he will not participate further in the explanation. National MP Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to the title above Article 119, Article 119 and all other members showing up in the words "public health" in a corresponding decline to replace the words "health care" in an appropriate decline. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23381	Thank you very much. There's only a few of us left. Time's up. I won't explain the amendment because we've already given an explanation to save time. And I'm telling you this -- for all those amendments where we've been presenting our opinions before, we will refrain from arguing to speed up the debate, although we absolutely think it's wrong, that we're forced to do so. And it would be pointless and absurd to keep going, because the human organism has its limits. My esteemed colleague Maric resented me for not training Peter Jojic in medicine. I told an anecdote. Serbian oral literature is the pearl of the world. Gete was her biggest promoter. I accidentally or intentionally mixed two stories, about the Sultan, about Aggi and Eri; I started one, and ended the other. Yeah, it's the first story that he sold era grain, great, first-class, and then he came up and said, "Bree, Ero, you're full of weeds," and era says, "Yes, it is," and he says, "Well, how is it, yes, when it's great?" "Well, I'm helping you make a joke. "The second story I mixed, on purpose or by accident, is about figs, sultans, and Erie. He took the figs to Stambol, and this one to the head, the route. When he hits him in the head, he says, "Thank God." He says, "Well, why do you praise God? "Well, he says, "I listened to my wife, told me--don't wear the dunes, I wanted to bring the sultan. I brought figs. "My dear colleague resents me for not being a censor and for not having censorship. We have one autocensorship, and that's our program. The other doesn't exist. Who am I to resent now that no one has noticed, which no one knows I made a mistake? I don't have anyone. You see how you may not have to honor others for something that you can show yourself as a flaw and a flaw. I'm ending this and I'm saying that only in some of the key things we're going to explain very briefly, and the key is the 199th term, we're going to have to explain our views in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23382	I understand well, therefore, that you have informed the Assembly, because of the efficiency of work and clearly explained differences in concepts so far, that only with some amendments will you give further attention to the attitude of your concept, and some you will not. Not because you do not insist, you insist on your concept, but because of the responsibility of all the MPs that all these days and Saturdays and Sundays work and simply all the employees. The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23383	I'm only obliged to say one short thing, when it comes to the definition of public health, public health, institute or health care. There are 23 institutions in Serbia that are particularly involved in this area, and they are called health care institutions, institutes. None of them, which is not in the public debate, have come to the conclusion that the Institute of Public Health is a term that expands and more modern defines the area of their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23384	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 119 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to the title above Article 123 and Article 123. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Autonomous District Assembly of Vojvodina has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 129a be added after article 129a. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 141 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic to Article 169. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 179 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 183 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted the amendment to Article 184. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Just to be clear, in such cases, the representative of the amendment promoter may speak exclusively on the board, and may not be present at the session, so that it is not strange that no one is answering. The amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic to Article 184. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted the amendment to Article 186. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic to Section 4 above members 190 and members 190-198. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23385	Of course, I will keep my promise, I'm just obliged to repeat our position that we are absolutely against this kind of license that is imposed and we believe that in this law we should erase this whole attitude that regulates it. I won't explain, I don't think there should be such an imaginary license (that's what I explained yesterday, the public could hear) that doctors don't need it. Doctors are a serious profession, such a series of criminal measures that you predicted in one way has really surprised us; that you take money, that you give people certain opportunities to work alone, and others that they can't conduct procedures in a health care facility, so that you completely forbid them to work or work under control, it's really humiliating. No profession allows itself to do so unless it is satisfied with a degree, a qualification designated to carry out these tasks, and then it can be allowed. In medicine, do not introduce it, imagine you judges, and now to judge and to say, "We will supervise you; there is someone sitting and watching the judge as he judges." That's nowhere to be found, don't put it in medicine, don't license it, take it off, it won't come up well with the doctor. That's not how you edit the system. The repression system doesn't edit, you've reached for repression in your system, and that's the system since 2005. The repression is one of the main elements that you serve, and it's easy to prove. I'm not gonna talk right now. I'll talk here for exactly two minutes. Please take it off, many doctors have called me and agreed with the opinion of the SRS; as you imagine, it is not good. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23386	No one else by the same amendment, the word has a professor. Milosavljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23387	When the law is passed and after eight days it is published in the "Official Messenger" and begins to apply, it is the obligation of the Minister of Health to the Serbian Medical Society in the case of the medical chamber, and other professional associations in the case of these other professions, dentists, pharmacists, biochemists, nurses and technicians form an initial committee for the organisation of the chamber. Over the next six months, the chamber statute is written and it has a constitutive session of the chamber assembly. Anyone who has graduated from college and has a degree in the professional exam has an obligation to enrol in the directory of the doctor's chamber doctor's doctor's office and he has been licensed. The main challenge when we talk about licensing is over the next seven years. Over the next seven years, any of us who has an initial licence should accept as mechanisms, which are in this set of laws and other regulations that will be passed, continuous education, continuous improvement, collection of license points, so that in seven years we can have a relicence, which will be regulated by the statute of the chamber by then, by forming expert committees within the chamber as well as by the way that the chamber itself decides. So I really think that in the Ministry of Health we think that these solutions that should be made after the establishment of the chamber are not only solutions that restore a significant part of our profession after six decades, that we do not have the chambers, but that, on the other hand, represent a mechanism of strengthening and controlling the quality of our work. Without the quality of our work, without professional licensing, the next day when Serbia is an EU member, we will be able to transport goods freely across borders, that people move freely, but without self-regulatory profession there is no membership of a common European medical establishment. There's no need to be afraid of licensing. In a public debate, it has been cited many times what a license can look like. The chamber we make, which we choose by the statute that we ourselves write as a profession, will predict exactly what is required for the license, or what is necessary for the relicence. The public reproofs of the institution of honor are known from a parallel analysis. You can read the journal of one of the chambers of countries that are in the environment, which, for example, For example, in April and that year, the Court of Honor made public reproof for the doctor and for that reason. gynaecological surgery in patients with initials without prior methods found to be a colon tumour. It is then a public reproof, such examples have in parallel practice and they strengthen quality, they need our expertise to help the largest number of people who do their job fairly, persistently, who asks themselves every day – what I have done today and what they can do better. None of those professionals would mind if there was a self-regulatory profession. The chamber is a privilege for the medical profession. He's mentioned in the judge's presentations. He has other control mechanisms, he has a second-degree verdict, he has a third-degree verdict, he has a Supreme Court ruling that abolishes his judgment and defiles his poor work. Our profession has its own mechanisms. The lawyer profession mentioned here in the context of the chamber is a profession which in the legal system has definitions in the Constitution, and then from that definition comes a different nature of the chamber organisation. I believe, even though there have been different views, which I very much respect, that an institution should be made over and over again by a root that has almost been forgotten, because 80 and more years have passed since Serbia had its own chamber. We have the opportunity, the honor and the obligation to re-establish the chamber in 2005 and 2006. How good it will be will depend on us, and the state, by this law, when you vote it, as of course the highest authority of government in this country and as the main representative of the electoral will of citizens, gives great authority that has power. The government has the authority to say - this is a license, I recognized it in documents, you can do medical work. That authority is now given to the chamber and it is an important instrument of self-regulatory profession. I am convinced that this instrument will further bind us. He who does his job well and fairly is not afraid of the license, is not afraid of control. It is our destiny in the professional century to report to someone throughout the working century: when we are young doctors – older, when we are older – the boss, when we are bosses – that we learn younger, because they stay behind to do the job. As good as they are, so were we. So it's just a definition of waist.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23388	Wrongly interpreted previous speaker, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23389	I said we wouldn't answer, but I really have to, and I'll be very brief. You're talking about public reproof and it's going to raise quality. We do such a stressful job and we have so much stress in the work that we do, don't use us yet. I have one child, my daughter, I never hit her, I didn't raise my voice to her. That's inhumane. Fight here for the rights of a child, against violence. It's violence that you want to reprove me, a serious man. Some time when I don't have the money, when I don't have this, I come to work so freaked out, maybe even because of a break, because of some bad health situation, you're going to make some kind of a mistake, and you're going to reprimand me for it. Just leave it alone. That's no way to raise quality. Be careful what you predicted in the law - accreditation. That's how quality can be raised by accreditation. The continuous education raises quality, in conditions of work that are good raises quality. We're doing such a stressful job, and you're still hitting on us with extra stress and you think it's something good. That's absolutely not good. If you think so, we in the Serbian Radical Foreigner don't think so and we're terrible against it. Please don't tell me now that one such institution, that your license, through the chamber... Why are we so against it? Because we're not going to put up with a monopoly of state-owned powers that are largely corrupt today, which nobody's after, and you're chasing tiny doctors for 100 euros. We don't want their monopoly. Go after the Serbian Doctor's Society. This society has been completely politicized since 2005. The last president wasn't elected at all in a democratic way, no one knew who suggested him, nor how he proposed him, nor did he have an opponent. You've condemned the past tense. To remind you, you said he was undemocraticly elected to the Serbian Medical Society. Not you personally, but they've been your friends since 2000 who've been blowing whistles and banging pots. They're still pounding like hell in the division, if it wasn't for democracy. Professor Sulovic, when elected president of the Serbian Doctor's Society, was chosen by three rivals by a secret vote. What's a Serbian doctor's company? An extended political hand, to make you a hat now. That's why we won't, and you're challenging us to say it; we'd keep it all quiet, Mr. Minister, we wouldn't bring our shame here to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23390	Maxim is a machine gun name. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23391	We're talking about part of the health care law regarding licensing, and then we're touching a large part of the institution of the chamber. It should be said that the key to our work is in the trust between doctors and patients. Trust is not guaranteed by any regulation. Trust is being built, it is being kept, nurtured, and strengthened, must be provided with a basic orderly society, but self-regulatory is an unusually important category. So if we want a chamber and licensing as a way to self-regulatory the profession, if we want to strengthen the quality of work, if we want to protect the rights of patients, but also protect the members of the chamber, then we understand the members of the law on chambers and members concerned. As a result, there is a special sub-account in the chamber law and a fund for direct assistance to members, where several points in the law state exactly what all the funds of the chamber can serve. If we're talking about that it's okay to have chambers because it sounds nice, but that membership should be voluntary, not binding, that there's no license, then we're really devising the concept of the chamber, then we're bringing the chamber down to the level of voluntary society, which can also play an important role. Voluntary society is the Serbian Doctor's Society and it's a doctor's association that, thank God, has a tradition longer than a century and we keep, we promote. How good it is, as much as we enjoy the way we organize and work, depends on how much we ourselves contribute to strengthening the quality of this society. However, an individual who performs his profession, a man who performs his profession as a permanent job, is a professional and therefore a chamber is a professional association. Membership is binding, because the system is simply bound. If you want to self-regulatory the profession, then membership is mandatory, then the chamber is one at the national level. The branches mentioned are defined by the statute and therefore by a substance that is not for the law and is not in the law. Therefore, measures to protect patients' rights are also directly linked to measures to protect members of the chamber and there is in law an obligation for the chamber to ensure its members in case of a professional error. A professional error can occur because of ignorance and circumstances that do not depend directly on man, but can also happen because of different circumstances and because of negligence, can also be made consciously. If there is to be no license and that membership in the chamber is not binding because of a small number of irresponsible people, then it is a dead end. The right path is the profession, most of all knows exactly what its task is, it knows very well that it is not easy to be a doctor and do this job, not only a doctor, but also a pharmacist, dentist and biochemist. These days there is a sentence behind which I would like to stand – we need doctors who are doing better and better and this is one way to ensure this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23392	Mr. Momchilov has a word. Same in the Rules of Procedure, I'm guessing the wrong interpretation. But simply because of what you said, therefore, MPs who are not like me laymen understand very well the differences in concepts and approaches, and please, as you said, there is no reason to insist on them, just to determine them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23393	I just want to appeal to Mr. Secretary: Mr. Secretary, that story should have been told in time. When you can't convince me, what's the situation with the other doctors? Please don't say, you're always setting us up. Mr. Cvetkovic came out angry and said you were replacing the thesis. He didn't want to sit here anymore. So they weren't just radicals. It's our general impression that you treat us inappropriately. You're twisting our words. We spoke to you yesterday and explained the concept of how we imagined the chamber and I made it clear – instead of that punishment of yours, instead of your license, make a commitment to continued education, and write down what we have to fulfill, how many congresses to visit, how many professional meetings to have, and how much it makes sense. No more punishments, we're sick of it, we're not going to put up with that terror of yours and those monopolies of established groups. You know where the monopoly is. You want me to tell you that, too? I can tell you that too, but I'm not going to say now, please don't let us spread the discussion here now, we heard and saw your attitude, don't argue with us like that, by replacing thesis. We gave you the whole structure as we imagine the chamber. He doesn't have to adopt. Please, the MPs will vote, we know that they will vote. I said, there's going to be a choice, and we're going to change it in a year, it's not going to live that way, you know, in such a repressive way it can't live.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23394	On Article 190, the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People's Republic of Zivodarka Dacin. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. () The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Life-dark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23395	Dear President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to tell you, as President, Mr Markovic, that I would really like to say another remark that was already being implemented here yesterday – that to the Legislative Committee, or to President Milos Aligrudić, you are telling him that he is not competent to propose that the amendment be accepted or rejected. He can say that the amendment is legally possible or that it is not legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23396	Excuse me, please. I apologized last night. Mrs. Radeta was... So I've repeatedly pointed out that formulation and I try every time to read it right, but the service delivers what it says. The Legislative Committee therefore finds that the amendment is legally possible. If he wanted to throw it away, if there was a condition, a reason, he would have rejected it. There is no such reason, so the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23397	No, I'd like to say that the amendment is not legally possible, given the fact that it stands here, and respecting the explanation, but simply for the sake of the public, I want to say what was the idea of us and the MP groups of the SPS. We simply wanted to protect potentially unemployed healthcare professionals who were unable to finance the license, who would be mandatory. Given that we have said that the first license of each healthcare worker is obtained by passing a professional or, as we say in the people, a state exam and that it is valid for seven years, we do not want to believe that over seven years someone with completed medical, pharmaceutical or dental college will be unemployed, but we simply wanted to protect that category of our colleagues and that, if there is a possibility, and there is no financial means, that the national service will practically enable the paying of some education that will practically be awarded to a relative. Regardless of what the first part of the argument states, in the second part of the reasons for not accepting amendments by the Government, it is said that, contrary to the jobs carried out by the National Employment Service in accordance with the law governing the area of security of the rights of unemployed persons, the proposed amendment has no foothold in the legal system of parallel countries, respecting all this, I am withdrawing this amendment on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23398	Thank you, Mrs. Dacin. I repeat once again what I have repeatedly warned the Legislative Committee about. So you see what happens: when we get this formulation, and since the amendment isn't rejected, then I can read that it's legally possible; in this case this formulation is given - rejected, and in fact the amendment is not legally possible. So, please, and this is what Mrs Radeta said yesterday, once again, I warn everyone, let the professional service warn, is not responsible, let those who keep the minutes on the Legislative Committee that only two formulations exist: either it is legally possible or it is rejected by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Let's just write that he's been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 199. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23399	The key amendment, around which there were most barrels on the Committee, where the most proposals were made to amend this member. I'll say for a while, not to say again, you can take the last "Nin" that came out, has an entire article on that article and says that it generates corruption. I also warned this House and the Proposer that this idea that someone could... I'm going to explain this very briefly, because it's already known to the public, a lot has been written about it; it's a make-up TV exhibit, I don't know whose, B92, which brings to Mr Tomislav Nikolic's show, and then, directly, it surprises him and scares him, it's just like the whole of our debate in these three days. So, Mr. Minister's statements regarding the member and Mr. Vukevic's statement. Nothing else, and we'll be there to track it. It's interesting to see, a fully quoted colleague, Vukicevic, and I'll let him explain his amendment in detail. We believe that this should be erased, that this is a conflict of interest, it is unacceptable today. We can understand that you can go to more places to work, if you're a civil servant, or one thing, as you imagined, but to continue at the same institution in the afternoon, so you say it's now, now we've remembered, it's not, it says, private practice, and you take money to the people. From an economic point of view, when the people have to pay out of their pocket, it is no longer what your law has prescribed when it comes to the fund and when it comes to mandatory aspects of health care. You don't just provide exclusive services, which you didn't prescribe in the fund law. If you tell us what your argument is, which is extremely funny, says we have capacity, so have interest from Macedonia to come, operate in the morning, why operate in the afternoon, you will charge from the Macedonian, he will pay, and it is not disputed. You've got space, you've got shifts, you've got shifts, you've got shifts, you've got shift shifts, you've got afternoon shifts, and you've got extra workers, anyway, so what do you do? Imagine me now, whether it'll be my interest to work with full force in the morning, when I can make my afternoons and I have to stay here, as I have to sit here without need and senselessly, unnecessarily, because you've packed five laws in one shameful way and you want to push them all through like this, because you know that individuals have no chance of passing. So if you allow it, what will those people who don't have a job say – why didn't you hire us, so we can do it. That'll be the first one. If I have to work this afternoon, I'll be saving myself in the morning and it won't be hard for me. Then, who will do it in the afternoon, here at my clinic has extra labor, who will determine it and tell someone who works in a tertiary facility, at the top of the pyramid, you can, and you can't. Who? It will create such chaos in the profession and such dissatisfaction. I know, you're protecting the interests of a narrow group of people who have already become rich and are extremely rich. Your directors have private offices, and that's the general known thing, and now you're making sure that the interest group gets comfort so they don't have to run and walk, but they can sit here in the morning, and then they charge extra in the afternoon. It can't, Minister, that's it. You have underestimated private practice, you have demoted a series of legal provisions and members who are named here. Now you're going further to the establishment of a monopoly and the preservation of a bad condition. That's not good. Serbian citizens have no interest in paying out of their pockets in such a way. Let's keep it clean. You want to be a private, go ahead, work; you want to be a civil servant, wear yourself out at work. What to some professor, let's get gynaecology and obstetrics, should he do extra work in the afternoon, if he's going to do everything that society has nominated him for, if he's doing surgery in the morning, if he's going to check his patients, if he has his students' classes, postgraduate classes, so if he has his own exams; he's only supposed to die of it, and the state has to pay him maximum and he doesn't think about going anywhere else. Anyone who works in a tertiary facility should work the most complicated and difficult cases and not think of running somewhere and cashing and cherries. You want to cut the cherries, I know, but for a narrow circle of people. Don't. The world has regulated it differently. We don't mind, I don't even mind personally if there's a private in a hundred places to run, so let him go and work, if anyone can rent space, it's in the developed world, it doesn't bother me. Something like this that you want to introduce to us, it's ugly, it's not good. Here, read to the press what they write, even this philanthropic, haired television pointed out to you as a major problem, and there's a lot of attacks on you. No more, this is a key amendment, we're against it, we're going to vote against it, we're calling on all the MPs and all the parliamentary groups to be absolutely... You will not be ours, but there are similar and colleagues Vukevic will certainly explain their amendment far better, and he is on the line of our position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23400	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Milosavic. Just to let the MPs know they know, we're gonna have to take a short break, if the vice president doesn't show up, between 19.25 and 19.35 hours, just so you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23401	In the experience of European countries, there is no example in which it is possible to draw and separate the system completely in a very precise way, a system that is provided in state institutions, services provided by public sector institutions for money from, say, compulsory insurance, from some kind of system of private institutions. The idea is to combine these two ways of working in the right way, so as not to disrupt availability, solidarity and all those positive criteria for achieving health insurance and health work. I will say this, since there will be a series of amendments, and there are several, some governments have adopted, some are not – what is the essence of this adopted solution. "A health worker employed in a health institution and private practice, working full-time, can carry out certain health work activities from his profession with his employer, i.e. another employer, outside of regular working hours, by concluding a contract on supplementary work with the director of a health institution, i.e. the founder of private practice. "Why even the term "complementary"? If there's something going on outside full-time, it's overtime. He can pay up to 30 percent of his salary under the Labour Law and then he devises any kind of supplemental work. Therefore, additional work has been defined as something different from overtime and has been given the consent of competent ministries, and in the first row of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Where an additional work contract can be concluded – 1) for the provision of health services not covered by compulsory health insurance relating to the content, scope and standards, i.e. health services which are not provided in accordance with the manner and procedure of the exercise of compulsory insurance rights; 2) for the provision of services provided by a health care institution for the purposes of compulsory insurance organisation, which cannot otherwise be provided by appropriate healthcare professionals; 3) for the provision of services provided by a healthcare institution for the purposes of persons who do not have the capacity of a insured person under this law. What does that mean? The health care professional referred to in Article 1(1) (i.e. those services not covered by compulsory insurance), under the prior consent of the expert advice and director of the health care institution, i.e. the founder of the private practice in which he is employed, may conclude only one supplementary contract with the other employer. The expert advice and director of the institution may give that consent only provided that the work of a healthcare professional outside of regular working hours, which is concluded by the contract, does not affect the organisation of the work of certain parts of a health institution or institution in general. A health care professional who performs tasks under a supplemental work contract with another employer contrary to the provisions of this member shall be in violation of the work obligation. The way, procedure and conditions, as well as other issues of importance for organising and performing additional work, is prescribed by the minister, read: sublegal act. An employee who performs tasks on this basis may perform these tasks in a total period of time not more than one-third for a number of patients, i.e. health services or medical procedures. The minister prescribes the number of patients, i.e. services or medical procedures, means a sublegal act. The patient to whom this service has been provided by a healthcare professional, in accordance with this Article, shall pay for the services to a health institution a fixed fee, on which the health care institution shall issue an invoice to the patient on the prescribed form. The institution in the state property pays the healthcare worker an agreed compensation paid by the patient to the health care institution. The health care institution in the financial plan must, in particular, show and manage the means to be achieved, provide the patient with complete information on the way and procedure of providing services in the context of this supplementary work, as well as, in a visible place in the healthcare institution, to highlight the possibility and manner of providing such protection outside of regular working hours. A patient who is dissatisfied with the service provided may object to the protector's right to patients in the institution, the inspection, as well as the board of directors. A worker employed in a full-time state-owned establishment may carry out certain health activities from his profession in the founders of private practice, meaning under one contract, for a maximum period of three years from the date of entry into force of this law. What do these solutions mean? These solutions mean that something that has existed since the 1990s as the possibility of supplemental work to half of working time and something that exists as the possibility of performing extra-standard services in health institutions, with a lot of space to be interpreted differently, comes down to a left hand that says the following, there are three basics: if I, as a state doctor, do some extra work, it is not my private work in a state institution and that I have a conflict of interest, but it is the additional work that the institution organises when there is a need for services that are outside of mandatory health insurance, not to disturb the organisation of regular work. For example, one of the centers might request that he do some kind of additional work. If he did not ensure, as a rule of quality and organisation, that he has specialist reviews before and after noon, that they do not wait longer than prescribed time, which is precisely stated, then he will not get consent, because in the sublegal act he will very strictly be defined in which way, for which services and how many services he can give the most permission for such work. Money is paid by an institution's account, the institution pays by contract by those who work. The second basis for this is – for example, a city that is 400km from Belgrade and needs a complicated operation, has conditions, and has no experts, can conclude a contract on additional work and that an expert from the big city comes once in 20 days and operate, because it is irrational to hire a special man who will do something on the spot that is not done daily; it is the second basis. The third basis was mentioned earlier, in the presentation of the predecessors – the possibility of a man with no health insurance, who came to be given some complicated surgery. Why don't we operate on him tomorrow morning, do some extra work? Because if he comes in tomorrow morning and is operated on money that's out of mandatory health insurance money, then he suffers from some Serbian citizen who is scheduled to be operated tomorrow morning because he paid mandatory health insurance. So, supplemental work, as a category regulated by law here, should practically solve the problem of treating people who do not have the status of a secure person in this country, and they need to be treated in health institutions. Or, if we imagine a situation that suddenly shows up a large number of people who have a contract with some private security and comes from abroad and wants to be treated in one institution; unless there is an institution of supplementary work, then no state institution can assume the obligation to treat people from that private insurance unless there is a category of supplementary work. If he accepts them for treatment, then it goes to the expense of insurance from mandatory health insurance. For example, this mechanism ensures that in the next three years, a man can have full-time hours and that another 1/3 works outside of an institution only with one employer and that after three years, he has no right to do so anymore. The provisions of the Labour and Working Relations Act are subsequently applied. All of this in Articles 199, 200, 201, 202, 203 and 275a, according to this acceptance of amendments, is not an obligation, but it is an option which represents the regulation of money flows in the health system in one clear way and protects the interests of the very one who does not have money in his pocket, because he insists that the organisation of work for compulsory health insurance money is as good as possible, that the institution, instead of now, on Sunday at 19.15, everything is locked up with the lights shut down, can work additionally to achieve income and be a health care market, in which roles and health institutions are known to be both state or private, and private practices, and that the interrelations are precisely defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23402	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 199 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Lalić. The government has accepted the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, Mr. Maric. Don't take this as a restriction on parliamentary law, I warn you once again, because of the mandatory consultations that the president of the assembly has to take a break will be exactly 19.25 to 19.35 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23403	I will try to be precise and brief, given that Mr. Minister explained in detail Article 199 and the amendment submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. I wouldn't repeat what the minister already said. There was a technical problem, that the government accepted the amendment, and that some of the votes in the Committee on Health and Family had not been accepted by the Committee. It was just a tight majority. Because of other views and differing opinions of individual MPs, that is how it happened. I would not repeat what our amendment contains in Article 199, but I would say briefly, since there are nine amendments to Article 199, it is absolutely a very important member, but unfortunately there are different attitudes and dilemmas. All these amendments would be reduced to three aspects. The first aspect is in those amendments where this member is required to be deleted, simply by wanting nothing to change in our health system, which I don't think is good. Another aspect is that some things in the field of health care, in the field of complementar work, which is also not good. Our goal is, given that we have very detailedly studied all of this and submitted the amendment that the government has accepted, to legally regulate the very big problem that is currently emerging in health – working on black, and finally legalising every supplemental work in health care. That's exactly what we're going to do by accepting and voting for this amendment. It's precisely here that none of us health care professionals can self-initiately work extra hard. It is said that there are three conditions under which we can work additionally. I wouldn't say it again. It's said to be decided by the medical board and the director of the health care facility, what we're going to do additionally. On the other hand, it is very important that the financial plan will record exactly how much anyone has charged the service, how much who has done the service, and why he took the money from someone. So it's a very precise member. Unlike some who think this is a generator of corruption, I think this is an anti-corruption member and this member will allow us all to work honestly in health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23404	It's good to have different attitudes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23405	As chairman of the board, I must make a statement before you. Dear counterpart Maric, whose position I absolutely respect, which advocates the amendment he and his colleagues have submitted, says he has been voted on by a close majority on the board. For the most part, all amendments and governments and promoters have passed. It's a general phenomenon. On the other hand, it is legitimate for the Committee to declare itself and the Committee, in most cases, considered it a better proposal. That's the whole truth. So, the Committee, you should know and say, thinks the proposal of fellow Vucicevic, which we voted for, is far better. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23406	Certainly, the narrow majority is the majority and there is no dispute. You're absolutely right. I don't understand that kind of remark. Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23407	My fellow MPs, I think maybe my colleague Maric just said that, maybe he didn't think so, but the waist is one thing, the amendment of the government is another. If he's an amendment to the government, he's automatically accepted here. The profession has the right to the Health Committee, not as it is said, by some revote... I, on the Committee, never tried to vote anyone, but I tried to get my opinion and position, if I could, on the Committee and convince the Committee or the Committee to convince me that what I said was wrong. The Committee on Health in the Republic's Parliament is composed of doctors and it is a profession. I am pleased that the profession has accepted this amendment, and whether it will be accepted in the Assembly, it does not depend either on the Committee on Health, does not depend on me, either, depending on the majority in this House. We'll see about that tomorrow when there's a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23408	And in that case, the narrow majority will be the majority. A basic democratic rule. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23409	I'd just like to apologize to my colleagues for a moment. I had no intention of insulting them at all. Why did I say - too loud for the close majority? It is precisely because, after that, the amendments that we have tabled to the members of 200 and 201 have been voted by the majority, and the previous article 199 totally disagrees with these two amendments to the members of 200 and 201. That's why I've been commenting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23410	Thank you, Mr. Maric, although I have a very difficult time connecting all of this myself. I'm not a member of the board. Break till 19.35. Thank you for your responsibility. [[After break – 19.45]] We're continuing our work. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic to Article 199. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is a country in transition. Of course, a lot of laws have been passed. Serbia may be one of the last countries to enter the transition. It has its own good and bad side. It's bad maybe because it's the last one, and it's a good thing we've been able to look at the experiences of all the former republics, now the states, and how and how they've made the transition, and possibly where they've made the mistake of correcting it, and we don't make that mistake and make our transition better. It's a tough job for health care professionals to do. There are many honest people in health care who do the hard work honestly and honestly, to the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia. But there are also those wicked people in health who used their work to embarrass a profession, which, of course, serves in the interest of human health, and shamed those honest and honest people with their dishonest actions and labors. It's a public secret that there's both bribery and corruption in health care. But there's a question of why he's silent. Shut up because the good part of people is corrupt and quiet because those sick people have nowhere to go, because the disease is difficult to treat in one day, especially chronic diseases, and in some ways they're directed to the same healthcare professionals, to be treated, and if they say someone asked for bribes, the question is whether they'll be able to be treated in the same health facility. This law should regulate that too. Of course, this health care law differs from the many other laws that this congregation has passed here, for the simple reason that this law applies to each individual from the moment of conception, birth, during life, to the death. There is almost no citizen of Serbia who has never been to a doctor and has not asked for the help of health care professionals. Does this law that we need to adopt tomorrow regulate all of that? I'll read Articles 20 and 26, see what your members say. Article 20 says: "The principle of health care justice is achieved by prohibiting discrimination when providing health care based on race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, religion, political or other convictions, property, culture, language, disease, mental or physical disability. "Article 26 – Patients' rights, in its second part, says: "In the process of achieving healthcare, the patient has the right to have equal access to health services without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities, place of residence, type of illness or time of access to health care. "Now we return to this famous member of the 199th and the amendment that I have submitted, which has accepted the profession. This article reads: "A health worker employed in a health institution and in private practice, who works full-time, can perform certain health work tasks from his profession with his employer, i.e. another employer, outside of regular working hours, by concluding a contract on supplementary work with the director of a health institution, i.e. the founder of private practice. "I asked the amendment to delete itself with my employer, that is." Why? Because in any case there will be a conflict of interest, which is clearly expressed and I read it from Articles 20 and 26 at the time of providing health services. So, those who are privileged, have money and can pay, without waiting, without crowding, at a health care facility, they'll be able to examine themselves in the afternoon. Those who don't have those options will have to be busy in the morning, no matter how busy it is. Of course, it's a property situation. So this member of the 199 is in conflict with the members of the 20th and 26th and on the matter of property. Here you can see discrimination at the time of providing health services, and also in property. Whoever doesn't have the money to pay that favor, he can't come in this afternoon. So, it discriminates against the citizens of Serbia both in time and, of course, in property. Whoever has the money, of course, will be able to provide himself with a more comfortable service. What problems will this law in health institutions cause? It'll cause a lot of trouble. First, it is said that all healthcare professionals have the right to additional work. It means paramedics, medical technicians, doctors, everyone. What's gonna happen? Let's take an example of a surgeon, there will be 50 surgeons in Kragujevac, and everyone will want to work and have that extra work in the afternoon. Not everyone can. Someone will determine, or be appointed by a director, or a minister, or some other commission. Then some people will work this afternoon, and others won't. It will cause dissension, contention, impatience, vanity, which even at this moment exists in health care, and no one can deny it. What does a surgeon need and what is the team of a surgeon, and what is needed for a surgical intervention? In addition to the surgeon, an assistant, a nurse, an instrumentist, an anesthesiologist, an anesthesiological technician is needed. It's about one team. We have an ear clinic in Kragujevac, we have a gynaecological clinic in Kragujevac, orthopaedic clinic, surgical clinic, eye clinic – let's see how this will all be regulated in one anesthesiological block that Kragujevac has. On the other hand, let us not say that there will be no other side problems, which are: there will be patients in the same ward who have been operated on the afternoon, at the request and who have had the opportunity to pay, and of course also those who have not paid. Don't tell me now that the service provided in the morning, in the afternoon, for those who paid, it won't be better and better. It will be safe, and there will be discrimination between the two lying patients. Of course, there will be other problems besides these problems. We know we have a waiting list. The day before yesterday, I said what is drastic with malignant diseases, people operated, so it's said – the price on the waiting list is 9,000 dinars, and then it's said "a patient who wants to be treated". Is there any man who's been operated on by malignancies that doesn't want to be treated? So it's said, even though you have a waiting list -- patients who want treatment from the waiting list, it costs so much, and patients who want treatment off the waiting list, it's ten times more expensive, so here's 9,000, and here's 90,000, but that's why it has the priority of reception. These are the problems that Serbian citizens will face. There is this conflict of interest and, of course, discrimination – whoever has the money will get a better health service, they will get a faster health service, and whoever has no money will be on the waiting list, so the question is whether they will ever get off that list, whether they will get a health care or maybe the worst thing can happen to him, which is to lose their lives and not come into a situation to get the help of a doctor. Of course, everyone pays. They pay, in this case, those patients who have money and who get immediate health care, but also those who don't have it. Those who don't have a living, and those who have money. Simply, I think it is impossible to organize private work in a health care facility, no matter how we baptize it here right now – additionally, they were looking for a term that would fit and could get away with it. Complementary work, it's private work. It is difficult to organize supplemental work and regular work in a health institution. What the minister wanted to explain earlier, I understand the minister's wish to pass this law quite authentically, but I don't think that's good. And, that amendment that I gave, I gave it in my desire to make it possible for healthcare professionals to have supplemental work first. I don't see a single reason why some of the other activities have extra activity and the healthcare workers don't. Simply, healthcare professionals can also work in the private sector, and if necessary, according to that contract, private workers can also work in a health institution. On the other hand, centers that do not have a particular specialty can have that extra activity, from another center to have people come to them. I simply think that my amendment has all been regulated, and it will not cause any of these negative consequences that, if this article is left like this, it will certainly be. I think the most expensive price will be paid precisely by patients and that, of course, which patients – the poorest patients. Those poorest patients have a lot in Serbia. This is not the way to protect the social sector. The social sector should not be defended like this, nor should it be afraid of the private sector and the development of the private sector, as this country is heading towards privatisation. I think it's just impossible to organize this. There's something else I want to say. Imagine now, the school has extra activity. You should have consulted the law, he says that educators can carry out this extra work, but he says exactly under what conditions – not in his school, but in another school, and he cannot, of course, give additional work to his student. What would it look like if some other professions now had that extra activity within their institution? Let's take an example, I've listed some textile industries right here; he says, we sew for the company first thing in the afternoon, and then we sew for ourselves, so here we sew when strangers come to us. Of course, we share some... It's just impossible. Imagine if JAT was introduced now, and he says, "We're flying in the morning, but we've got extra action in the afternoon, so we'll fly, we'll drive someone." Imagine the judge, for example: in the morning, the judge will be a lawyer; or, again, the judge will work in the social sector in the morning, and in the afternoon, he is doing extra work, this for money. I just don't think that's possible. Of course it'll cause a lot of problems. I, in a desire to simply correct any chaos in the healthcare institutions that will happen, have invested this amendment, but I don't think there's any good will, at least in the Ministry, that it should be accepted. Of course, it will be known that there was a New Serbia MP Vladan Vukevic from Kragujevac against this and said that some chaos would be born there, and here the minister believes it will be an ideal solution. I think the time, for the shortest three months, will prove who's right. I'm saying this because I know this was at the dentistry clinic in 1992, and it only lived for two or three months. It caused such divisions at the Maksilofational Surgery Clinic and, of course, Professor Piščević abolished it after three months, although he had the chance. The same was organized, so additional work was paid to the clinic, and the clinic was then paid to the doctors. I know how many fights and problems there were at the clinic back then. I think it was in a very small number of state institutions; it was at the Maxilofational Surgery Clinic, maybe some others. This, of course, will be a terrible problem for healthcare professionals who will hate each other, argue, and for patients who are in a situation to be treated, and simply cannot. Then it will happen that those who work early in the afternoon in the state sector, and do not have the opportunity as their colleagues who will work this afternoon, will be bribed and corruption might be even more pronounced in terms of what they will say – well, this afternoon is the 5000 dinar intervention, here, I'll do it for you for 2500 in the morning. All of these are some possibilities that will exist. I think this law, in addition to discrimination, will legalise bribery and corruption at a large door, and whether or not we want to admit it, it exists in health care, and, of course, patients who are being treated best, and there is also a fear of a lot of talk about it. I think this is going to be legalized and it's going to create big problems. I hope that the MPs, regardless of the Ministry's proposal, will also respect the profession that said this amendment should be accepted. We'll see how the MPs react, and in the end, however it is, we'll see what the health situation will be like in three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23413	Thank you. Here you go. The People's Messenger of the Living-Dacins, according to the same amendment. So, if in three months there's any hope we're older, shall we, shall we?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23414	Thank you very much. It is that it is already late hours, but I think it is very important that this member decides and how one of us is experiencing it. Of course, I respect the arguments of all fellow MPs from the parliamentary groups, but I would also like to say the position of the SPS parliamentary group, which I, as their representative, also expressed at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. We will also vote here tomorrow in voting day for a proposal from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and not because it is imputed here that the amendment is governmental, because I see that they are in the signature of colleagues from the G17 Plus parliamentary group; I guess it is an association because it is also the minister from the same parliamentary group, or party. I would simply ask the minister in the end to tell us who's right, who's wrong, how who's experiencing it. I have an impression, and I deeply believe in what I'm about to say, and I'm proud of it, that, regardless of the shortcomings that certainly exist, the Health Center of Kickinda has in the last six years preceded exactly this kind of work, but of course it couldn't be called supplemental work. The health center's got a lot. When I say a lot, he's got financials. Regular patients lost nothing, and we who were hired, of course, were limited to paying us as much as could be paid under this law, but simply had to be respected up to 30%. I'd only ask for a little patience. What's this about? It's about workers who, therefore, have our mandatory health insurance, they had it, they have it today. It seems to me that much more than we think there's going to be some kind of fuss and crowd, that every afternoon everyone's going to ask us to pay us, to make some money, to damage the facilities. I don't see it that way. Let's just say, our local self-government a year ago wanted to do extraordinary checks for all the employees. They wanted you to stay out of order, which means they're not waiting for work days. They wanted people to be hired on Saturdays, which I'd say was a connected and chosen doctor. So they wanted special examinations. Of course, without a lab, you can't go anywhere in a box like that. In doing so, I was this selected medical biochemistry specialist, and I can't do everything myself, but they were hired and two labs. They were looking for an intern, exactly the name and last name. Why, they probably know that, it's a matter of their choice, they wanted that very intern to examine them and, of course, there was a nurse. They wanted a neuropsychiatrist, both by name and last name; of course, he does not work alone, but also by a nurse with him. And they wanted a radiologist, or ultrasound, where a radiologist was accompanied by a nurse. Since we estimated that more than 20 of these complete reviews on one Saturday we couldn't do, these checks lasted six Saturdays in a row. We were not adequately paid, so we were hired. The law restricts us, and we in Kikinda generally respect the law, but that's why the institution made a lot of money. Or I'll tell you another example. With pride, one successful firm, who really cares about its workers... I was saying that, and when we talked about health security at work; it's a company that was social, now privatized, a Banini company, no commercial, you all know it's the best cookie factory, coming from Kikinda. They've been self-initiativeally twice a year and today, since six years ago, for a number of people doing systematic checks, even with gynecologists and more often. They want adequate protection for their wives. They all have mandatory health insurance. So they don't really do anything wrong, so they don't threaten any moment anyway the difficult financial situation in health, which takes years to go back, and today we're all really measuring every cost, they before they start coming to those checks buying us all the reagents. I'm talking about the lab. They buy even EKG tapes, which in all these measures are the cheapest, and the centre pays a service per republican price list for non-standard services. So they just want to help the health care, but they really do it that way. They even made deals with selected doctors and they paid that compensation. I think that's what makes this law possible. If someone wants to hire me today to work next Saturday (I couldn't work today, because I'm here) or do some work on Sunday, why shouldn't I be tied to my house and at my house, where I have the best equipment, do the job? I bring a lot of health care, a lot of it, because if all these people are satisfied, we'll be hired again or they'll give an idea to someone else who can. So it's not just that - we're looking for donations without cover, to help us, we're complaining hard. We want to earn and do fair work and my institution to get more than it can realistically get not today, but in the next 20 years from the Ministry. I am so experiencing it, and I cannot accept that someone is limiting me to be occasionally engaged in my own institution to earn honestly from doing what I do on that day, given that there is a permanent service in the laboratory (now I'm only talking about my service), not people who do their work Saturdays, or their working hours, but people who have a day off. The thing was absolutely clean, and it was recollected, the chosen doctor, "Banini" asked for a gynecologist and sister, and paid for, ophthalmologist and sister, intern and sister, medical biochemistry specialist and two lab boys. I have to tell you, everyone was pleased. Which is why tomorrow I'd... I'd be honored if someone chose me like that to hire me, because I'm not a doctor, so I can talk to a patient in four eyes. Why would I go and do that now, with all due respect to all my colleagues, somewhere, I don't know, in some private lab, so that it would be outside my facility, where the equipment isn't nearly as good and quality as I do, fortunately, and to the pride of our house in kickinda, I have in my lab? Why would I, where I have biochemical analysts, haematological analysts leave and go, how we lab people want to say, work with a stick and rope method, because maybe the order of size is very different, the needs for exploiting the apparatus are very different and I understand why, maybe in some lab, we only have a spectrophotometer, which has done a lot of good work for patients, but simple technology, technology, all of luck, in medicine goes forward. I just wanted to really explain why we're gonna... Because that's how I experience it, I don't experience it that I'm going to work eight hours in the lab in the morning, and then someone's going to hire me, so I'm going to make some money, this one's not going to be on the waiting list, he's going to pay me, so I'm going to stay and work in that same house. No, I'm experiencing it like this, and I think that's enough arguments for all of you, even the public, which is why we, as an SPS parliamentary group, are going to vote for the amendments proposed by our G17 Plus colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23415	Anyone else by this amendment? Minister Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23416	Just the example we just heard was the right example. If the amendment of fellow Vucicevic was adopted, it could be said that all of this could happen, but only in a private institution, where someone went to be a consultant. The fact is that in these 15 years 70% of the work in private institutions actually, by many estimates, is done by consultants. The law is so wide-ranging that it is possible to be a consultant in a whole series of institutions and work records is actually not well-organized. In this whole story, a citizen who needs some additional service and wants to be paid under this solution should not even seek it in any state-owned institution, but only in a private institution. This business done for companies, Banini and these others is not entitled by any state institution, but only by private-owned institutions, with or without consultants, and it is simply an amendment behind which a very clear private interest really stands. It's legitimate, but the interest should be recognized as both public and general. We could cite a series of examples from practice. In fact, it all comes down to the fact that the state institution is working for mandatory health insurance money, and when it works for some other money then it needs to be regulated, and that's why it's proposed, and it's regulated to introduce a definition of something called supplemental work, so if someone comes as a team on Saturday to do that extra work, then be adequately paid and stimulated to just do it at the prices that are then on the market, which are much higher. Then the money remaining in the institution will be invested for the climate and for the settlement of the space and for better conditions for the work normally carried out for the means of compulsory insurance. So, a public health care facility in the state sector works for compulsory insurance money, but also for others in supplementary work. The private institution works for private money, but also for compulsory insurance money when there is a contract, so these are examples of institutions that have contracted so far and from now on according to the propositions that are now in the regulation. A similar experience, which I have the impression that we will have in the period of implementation of this regulation, Italy has passed 15 years ago. In a very similar way, the practice was regulated, which at one point was so mixed that it did not quite know the limit quite clearly. She started to settle after that. So, behind these solutions is exactly the solution to the problems that are being discussed here. There have also been examples of other sectors and their solutions. Additional work as an institution exists in the Labour and Working Relations Act, but in terms of legal regulation of the legal system, every system law in certain areas respects its specificities, so education has its own way of defining supplementary work, and the health sector through the health care law should have its own. What will happen in those first three months, and will we then see that something really turned out to be good or bad? First, in those first three months, it is impossible to see the implementation of such a regulation, because this definition leads to much greater order. Before Kickinda can do a review for Banini, she'll have to prove it, because by means of a sublegal act that's brought in precisely to say, first of all, how many times can it be done and how many services per person and per unit of time and space. So this has to be defined, it has to be proof that all other previous conditions have been met, the money has to be on a special sub-account which is shown in the financial report as a special income, by contracting regulated labour obligations with the institution. So, the first result in the first three months will be that private institutions or private offices will be able to have a consultant who has only one contract on consulting supplementary work; therefore, only one in the next three years. In the first three months, a more agile health inspection can be seen, with a completely new database of all institutions, both state and private in Serbia, as two weeks after the adoption of this law, a sublegal act will be adopted that regulates the network of institutions and a sublegal act that regulates standards and will start to regulate this area. During these discussions, one estimate has been made that does not stand. It is said – from gross national income 6.5% is allocated to healthcare by compulsory health insurance, and for God's sake, corruption is 2% to 4%, according to World Bank estimates. But that's not true. That estimate, 2% - 4%, that's the money that's paid directly out of the pocket. Why don't we have the exact information? Because statistics in our country still don't have what's called a national health account, which we're now introducing, and that estimate, from 2% to 4%, means all money in the private sector, and informal payment and corruption. This means, of those 2% - 4% should return to the public sector, where professionals are created, the part should be clearly distributed between whoever did the job and between the institution and to see the improvement in the institutions, that it strengthens healthy competition, that there is a better order and that there is no "cheering" in the regulations for a part of the interest, but that it is the main public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23417	Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23418	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know if I could agree with Mr. Secretary. I worked in public health until 2000, and since 2000, I've been private. I don't know if anything's changed since 2000. I don't think so. You could always come to a doctor with a manual and no instructions. When you come without a manual, you have the price of the checkup and pay. You could also come to ask for surgical intervention without instruction, of course on a personal request, because you pay for that intervention. It was, it exists now, but of course it was the prices set by SIZ. Every surgical intervention has its own price, every review has its own price, but it cannot be the same with what is now being introduced as supplemental work. On the other hand, he could never live up to social and private life. It's, in the extreme, immoral. Why? Because there's a huge difference between the private sector and the social sector. In the private sector, someone built the building, bought the equipment, the patient could and didn't have to come, and the state's social sector is forcing citizens to pay for health care and, of course, there's no excuse to introduce a private one, if we call it complementary work, within the social sector. The social sector has proved to be inconclusive, it has proven to have developed privately compared to social. I would like the minister to now tell me that, by which laws the consultation of colleagues, the related persons to be created, of course, are examined in the morning, and in the afternoon everything will be visited, and who will invoice it, the amount of medicine that is given, that I do not indicate all the machinations can be. But I'm sure this law, sublegal acts, is simply impossible to fix, and that works out well. I'm sure of it. Maybe it's three months' time, but I think it'll be enough to give the first effects. Of course, we'll see how the citizens react to all of this, but they won't react positively, because this solution won't be complete and it's very difficult in our terms to edit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23419	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23420	Of course I didn't want to say it before my colleague Vukevic said it himself, but now he said it himself. So, since 2000, he's a private man and he's been proposing a solution by which he, as a private man, has the right to hire the best oral surgeon who's the only one doing any kind of intervention and that he can do it for the extra money, either from private insurance or from personal payment, only in his office, and not in a state institution where I'm the director. That maxilofational surgeon. I say by law there's a general rule that with instructions I can come to this maximum surgery and be operated. If I don't have the instructions, I have to pay, so it'll be done. We now say by law here that the one who pays can't pay so it can be done tomorrow morning instead of the one who came with the instruction, but it's extra work and that extra work has to be specifically defined and that's why he's here specifically defined. This story about whether something is possible or impossible is possible to check if, for example, it is possible. Now we all get on a bus and drive no further than 250 kilometers, wherever we go, north to Hungary, south to Greece, east to west, northeast, northwest, southeast, southwest, every system has a model that tries not to ruin the public sector and the state hospital. There's one example, among other things, that's across the Atlantic, where it's just such an attempt at complete separation, but it's a system where 40% of the donation is directly out of the pocket, in which you don't necessarily have to secure yourself and in which there are 40 million unsecured persons. Then there is neither "s" of solidarity, between the rich and the poor, nor between the healthy and the sick. So the essence of these changes that are being offered here... So, why extra, not overtime? Because my colleague Dacin just told examples that are more than obvious. So, since it's not extra, it's only paid as overtime and people aren't motivated to spend Saturdays with their family, they work. But work, one stays in the facility. The definition of the supplemental provides a fair-play, profit is divided in the way he has earned, and we know that in our business we know very well who hairs and who carries water. Don't think people are leaving privately because it's private, or state-owned because it's state-owned. No, they go to a man's name and last name who wants to do some sort of intervention, if that's some sort of top-notch intervention. Here only a regulated space is opened that the state institution here today at eight o'clock in the evening can use its capacities now for those who do not have guidance and pay, not in the morning, when treating a people who do not have to pay and who should have the same top conditions. The establishment needs to use its capacities maximum, there should be regulated rules of the game, and then this 2% - 4% of national income, which is now undefined, we have clear channels defined where and how it goes and of course we're very close to accounts, records, taxes, with a much better picture of records and insight into how many services and where it works. So the accepted amendments round the story this way, and the amendment that the predecessor pointed out actually winds the water on one well. Things should be called their own name. If the amendment of counterpart Vukicevic is accepted, in this case the consultant can only go to a private office. In that case, colleague Dacin can only go on Saturday and have the people of Banini examine someone in a private clinic, and in case of further work being defined, tomorrow 20,000 workers will be in a private facility... Let's just say, "Sartid," if it's an economic well-being, it won't be able to close any deals with the state institution anymore, because it doesn't have the possibility of supplemental work and engagement of its capacity, but only with the private one. Where is this system solution that does not cheer, but regulates, with the aim of emphasising the right public interest plan? I think it's obvious that when compared to these several discussions and for that reason, because of these and many other arguments, and these many others fall into comparative analysis... The professional public knows very well that at the beginning of this year, the public debate started by putting all the solutions on the table, so the Austrian, Slovak, Czech, British, French, Italian, Hungarian, Croatian, Slovenian, all of them, and from them slowly coming in this year to something that I think represents a good solution for this moment. At three years, only one consulting agreement outside the state institution is being held, and the state institution is opening up space, not for private personal work, because I can't make a decision as a state doctor about doing a private gastroscopy at my clinic, but first I have to prove that gastroenterology works well in the morning and makes maximum use of capacities, which is not the case at this time, because if something is waiting longer than it should be in quality, it won't be possible to do additional work. If not all the specialists in the infirmary this afternoon, there's no additional work. So that's why these two or three fences, only if they're satisfied, then there's room for extra work, and then that money remains an establishment. Or, a home of health that has good physiology and has ultrasound treatment of injury; you come for half an hour to treat your injury. So, across the street from home health, there's a private physiology office that does the same thing. You have a man who wants to pay to do the treatment at 2300 hours. By solving his colleague Vukevic, he will have to go across the road to a private physiology office and there to do that treatment at 23.00 hours, or at home, and it will be impossible for him to have a home of health through this procedure to get the right to meet someone at 23.00 hours, because it brings income from which that physiology will in a month install the climate into all the offices, so whoever does not pay thanks to God will receive a service in decent conditions and will raise the level of the institution. So from day to day, from month to month, and in three months, not this first, but another, maybe three months, maybe four months from now, you'll see a shift better. Far from it being ideal; if there was an ideal solution, nothing easier, we would see where what is ideal, let's bring it in and that's the right way. In fact, what we've been saying for a few days and we've been making different views is the best proof that there is no ideal solution. So, on balancing and terrorism, where there are more benefits, and where more defects, it's more damage if I give privilege only to the owner of a private office that he has the exclusive right to make a contract with someone, to only do something with him which is a special procedure, and to ban the state institution where this top expert has learned the trade, without which he would never know that he is doing and that none of the people who are necessarily more secure than he is benefiting from. So one solution is – complete separation, either private or state; then you lose that expert completely to people who don't have money, because then he doesn't stay in an institution where he can't count on the extra profit. If you prohibit him from doing so in this institution, regardless of the conditions on Saturdays and Sundays and out of work hours, then on the spot you transfer the private insurance market to private institutions, additional funds to private institutions, all private institutions. It's not fair, it's not correct, and nobody in professional circles understands it unless someone has a really clearly defined personal and group interest. Interest drives everything, but organized societies serve to bring interests into line and make rules that apply to everyone and whoever breaks them, for God's sakes, then they will have a chamber, they will have a license, they will lose their jobs, and after three years of consulting work as complementary work is abolished even in the fourth year if you are full-time in your establishment you can't be a consultant. Then you have to work under the Labour Act for four hours, and then you can work the other four hours there, but then you will be paid a contribution and regulate your working relationship in a different way. It's a vision of editing this area, regardless of politics, of different attitudes. Believe me, I brought this up as a health minister who is a doctor and who listened, listened to all the arguments, tried to weigh comparative experiences to make a solution that would ultimately be useful, above all for those who did not have to pay. So, a small percentage of people have money to pay for an extra favor. The state institutions should look better and they, believe me, are better in 2005 than in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23421	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the minister misread me, but I've never been able to hide that I'm private and there's nothing controversial about it. I don't have anything to cheer on my waterway for a moment. Private company, standing board, or someone wants to come or someone won't come. That's clear. Of course, it's also true that this law... And the minister was private, the minister worked in private. So what, my God, was doing private, now he's a minister. It's true, I didn't mean to say, this law absolutely shuts down the private sector. So, by adopting this law, the private sector is being shut down and the private sector is opening up within the social sector. This is the first step, privatisation of the social sector by certain groups of people who will rent space within the home. And it's not true that my amendment doesn't give me the possibility that a doctor from the Refugee Hair is working at the Clinical Center, but there's no possibility that a doctor from "Beige Hair" is working exactly in "Beige Hair", or a doctor from the Clinical Center right at the Clinical Center. Where he spent 20 years working hours, where he knew his colleagues, sisters, and where he could organize a network, and everything that needs to be examined, which should be complemented, so where to do additional analysis and examinations to get to a diagnosis and do a surgical intervention, that it would all go on the line. How are you going to invoice it? Everything will go in the morning on the line, all friendly and all over relationships. Of course, a certain group will take one lease, a second lease, a third lease, and this is the first step in privatising the social sector that will come later, with this law, the minister absolutely shuts down the private sector and opens 20,000 private offices within the social sector. I didn't want to say it earlier, but when the minister told me – some interest in the private sectors. No, there's no interest in the private sector. The private sector is a private sector. He does economics, he has his prices, someone accepts it or doesn't accept it, but if the minister wanted, which was normal, to equalise the private and social sectors, both in rights and in duties, this law would have been adopted by both private and all doctors. This is what we expected, the equalisation of the private and social sectors, both in rights and in obligations, and the correction of everything that today in health care is not good for tomorrow to be better. I don't think this law will solve it and it will, but I said – some Dr Vladan Vukevic said that there, the minister said that. I think three months from now will be the first results, but here, in three to six months this law will produce results, I mean negative ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23423	Minister Tomica Milosavljevic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23424	I'm really sorry to pick up so much, but I think it's important that we continue this way. This is a question that needs a clear attitude. Serbia has already seen what it looks like once a complete ban on any additional work is made and insists on strict separation of the state and private sectors. It was in one regulation in the mid-1990s, and it wasn't right. It wasn't good, because after that he blossomed work on black. It was a way to find a social valve for a situation where you didn't even have the element of paying for a healthcare worker. So two possible black and white solutions. One solution is to completely ban any work outside of the institution where the ownership structure you're working in, so it's a state doctor or a state or it's private. That solution is unrealistic. No country in Europe has applied it without working properly. None of them do. Each has different experiences, I repeat, in a public debate we discussed all the solutions that exist today in both highly developed countries, both in transition and in the poor. There's a lot of wandering, changing, searching. There's no ideal solution. There are certain things that are clearly and openly said here by this law. It is said that, first of all, supplemental work exists and that it is called, is said to be paid. The pay is fixed and the bill is received and then the tax is released when the end of the year comes. It's said that there's an account where these funds are collected, and everything else is, in fact, a replacement of thesis. That, Bezania, Clinical Center, one hospital, another hospital, that's eyewashing. We must face the fact that we have a series of reviews and procedures that are not well recorded enough, that the quality of the charm and the different, and that is why we are passing laws, because the need to introduce clear rules of the game, which we will then stick to. That's why it was important to talk about a set of laws these few days. Far from being perfect and being nailed for good. In the law, it says nicely, for three years, there has been a right to consulting work in a private institution. It's never a guarantee of the ownership structure for the quality of work. After 10, 15 years of transition in a single health system that shows that there is two to four percent of the money that is actually in unregulated flows and is jeopardizing the entire system of financing the country's health system. This is seen and seen in other countries in transition. That's what the surrounding countries have been through. We have to do everything to make it clear what's going on with the health insurance money. Today it's more transparent than ever on the insurance site. I'm talking about the capitulation, the different way of paying, the clear idea of what to do with the extra money, that the state institution is working for that mandatory insurance money, but also for private insurance, and that private institutions are doing the same. This isn't the end of private facilities. This is the end of bad work. This is the beginning of a much better work of those who are good, and so it should be. They should be the best on the market. They should not survive private institutions registered in the Ministry of Health in one way, in the municipality in another way, and are then called the International Head and Eye Centre Clinic under the corporate law, and they are essentially specialist offices. That's what's being regulated here now. There should be a clear contract for a consultant who is a consultant in that facility. Then you can't go to school and wave whiskey in front of your stomach and diagnose pancreas, and that someone is a gynecologist by profession, working in an office that is an office of general medicine, and it's registered in the municipality as a center for this and for that. That's why these laws are important, to pop and Bobba. No disarmament, 3, 6, 9, 12, life will show what the next step in system editing means. It can't be done with the disarmament. We are in change, and that is why it is a great responsibility for this assembly and this government, and therefore I think it made sense to make an effort, change the regulation, above all, to make the health system more efficient, to make it more accessible to everyone. Regardless of these discussions, when you take a closer look at what we've said here, except for a dozen arguments about terms, about variations that are like this or that, in fact, there were no fundamental differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23425	I thank the Minister. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 199 of the amendment, MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, the Government and the Committee on Health and Family did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radojla Bukvic to Article 199. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 200 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment of Goran Ilic to article 201 has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted to Article 202 by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 208a be added after article 208a. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 209 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 210 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 211 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Miljko Četrović submitted to Article 211 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23426	Dear People's MPs, since this debate has been delayed and we are entering the late evening hours from day to day, I will be very brief, and on Article 211(1), I have suggested that the word "Minister" be replaced by the word "Ministership". An explanation of why the amendment does not stand, and the reference to point 44, as opposed to the amendment submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, where he also suggested that the word "minister" be replaced by the word "ministration". In an explanation of why amendments to the MP Natasa Jovanovic's amendment are not accepted, the Law on State Administration, adopted by this National Assembly, was published in "Official Messenger" 79/05. And we have had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of State Administration that the ministries, under this new law, will be organised by having ministers elected as political persons, and all others in the ministries, starting with the deputy ministers, assistants and others, will be professionals and will be elected by the competition. Article 211 provides for provisions that, after considering the reports and the proposed measures referred to in Article 210, the Minister shall adopt a solution which may temporarily prohibit, in full or in part, the performance of certain tasks in a health institution, i.e. from point 1) to point 4 and in the final position of this Member and propose the withdrawal of the licence to a healthcare professional. It clearly says here that this argument cannot be applied. I ask the question, and I agree with that, if the minister is in charge of signing sub-legislative acts, he certainly does not work as a minister, in this case when it comes to making a solution, when the minister can arrive, when it comes to the health ministry, to bring all these solutions, to enter into the essence of any solution and report and proposed measures by the supervisors. Basically, this is where this amendment was supposed to be accepted, because it's about one of those professionals... And here it is explained, when it was the Law on State Administration, that it will have a mandate and be elected by competition and will be defining professional criteria, experience, ability and knowledge, their mandate will be five years and will not match the mandate of the minister. In that sense, I believe that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23427	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23428	The State Administration Act says very precisely what the minister must do. But I thank the People's MP for asking – when can the minister arrive? Well, he's got to be able to read every solution. There is no solution to this type that this minister has signed without reading well and insisting on standing a paraphras and that of the expert who did the job and secretary of the ministry. It's a procedure in the state administration. I added this a little bit, which didn't have to, but actually, the State Administration Act is very precise and we don't have the right to change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23429	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 213 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23430	Dear People's MPs, it's almost 9:00 p.m., and we've been here since 10.00 a.m. The MPs of the SRS did what we promised. On the occasion of six amendments, we didn't go out to explain them. In part, we've already given arguments before. I will not explain this amendment, because it is absolutely absurd that I try to explain to a small number of MPs here. It's absurd to bother our theater with a sterile debate. Let me just have a few sentences at the end, because I won't answer again. Health, social well-being, and even knowledge, would be perhaps some of the most valuable categories anyone can have or may not have. I don't want to talk about other abstract, like justice, it's not at the expense of this society, of someone thinking about some justice. I would rebel for some other important things that happen to us as a people, this parliament would probably bring some resolution to free our President Vojislav Seselj, who is in prison, and is not aware of why and does not start his trial. He'd probably have something to say about what's going on with Slobodan Milosevic, but he shouldn't be looking for it now, when times obviously aren't like that. What I would like to say at the end of this debate, if this is the greatest value and the whole world recognises health as a top value, today it is quite clear who bears responsibility if that health is, if it is good or if it is bad, the World Health Organization says clearly – government. Now I'd like to order two things to the government. I resent the cabinet of Vojislav Kostunica, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS and many doctors who have appeared to me these days, because this is how he allowed the system health laws to be passed. Secondly, more importantly, I resent the office of Vojislav Kostunica which, after five years of the revolution that the DOS came to power, gave Serbia such bad laws. Practice will show, we won't go into the duel. In the end, a few words about the minister. Mr. Minister, you're a great expert and nobody's slow about it, but you're an extremely bad minister. Mr. Toma Nikolic told you that on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Here, I'll tell you why. Mr. Minister, you have a weak democratic capacity. Mr. Minister, you want to be the only owner of the truth. Mr. Minister, you here in Parliament say "good example, bad example." You can't talk like that in parliament. Don't be worth it. The minister means servant to the people. You want to be the supreme arbiter, you want to impose your opinion, and that's a bad minister. So, Mr. Minister, we also had questions we wanted to ask you. We will be forced to place them in writing. We also resent the media for keeping all this quiet. The media conductors, both electronically and in writing, are silent about this disgrace and this disgrace. Thank God you're watching this, but the Serbian people are still informed about what's going on. That's how much we have to say, and we don't want to talk to anyone about anything anymore. We'll probably ask our questions to your ministry and you personally at the press conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23431	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23432	I thank my colleague Momchilov for the words he has given me, but I think, above all, as Minister, I owe thanks to all the MPs, because these few days we've had a high level of academic debate, whatever anyone interprets, about our work, regardless of not being all doctors and not all health professionals. Of the hundred amendments, as far as the health care law was concerned, 20-25% were respected and incorporated into the final text of the bill, which you will decide as MPs tomorrow. The decision will be yours, as authentic representatives of the electoral will of citizens; 250 MPs decide on draft laws. We've already said most of the explanation of the most important issues in this solution. What I want to say about this amendment and these few that we are now talking about and the whole set of laws, which is mentioned several times, these regulations are based on analysis and effort that hasn't been mentioned since yesterday and not just since this year. When speaking, for example, about chambers, then you can talk about the efforts made throughout the 1990s, and 1994, after that in 1996 and 1997, and then 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. Finally, doctors, dentists, pharmacists, biochemists, nurses get a chamber as an independent professional institution, which for them is an additional obligation because of the licenses they are bound by, on the one hand, but the profession knows very well that the license means raising the level of dignity. If anything is leading me to this job, or to sit with you and talk about what we have proposed as a government, then it is in the first place the main goal, which is to increase the dignity of people, citizens who come to be treated with us and increase the dignity of us who are trying to give them what they expect of us. Sometimes it's a cure, sometimes it's a comfort, sometimes it's an awakening of hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23433	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to the title above Articles 214 and 214 - 218. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23434	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my amendment is the logical consequence of the amendment submitted by Mr Nedeljkovic to Article 213. Namely, it's about accreditation of health institutions. Of course, I have no illusion that the motionor will accept this amendment, given that it is two completely different concepts, the concept of the promoter and our concept. But what is strange here is that 94 amendments remained unaccepted by the proposings, and among those 94 amendments is the most important amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. However, it should be said that there are amendments to all parliamentary groups, both the DSS, and the G17 plus, and the NS and other parties, and even the AP Vojvodina Assembly. This means that no one is satisfied with this law, that is, how good this law is or how good it is. The Serbian Radical Party will not accept and will not vote for this law because it is bad. We don't trust Mr. Secretary. Since he has been a minister for four years, he was in the previous government and in this government, he has proved on several occasions that he does not deserve our trust. I'll give you just a few examples that we can't trust Mr. Milosavljevic for. The first example concerns reform of Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service, which began several years ago. In 2002, the EU allocated more than fivem euros through the European Agency for Reconstruction to reform Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service. It is then clearly said that out of these fivem euros, three and a half million should go for the purchase of equipment and the rest for consulting. The idea of the EU was to invest three and a half million in completing a blood plasma fractionation unit at the Institute for Blood Transfusion in Belgrade. Of course, it's an idea that's good and that needs to be accepted by the professional public here. It's also accepted by the expert public. However, some circles here, circles around Minister Milosavljevic, did not accept such an idea, or they did everything possible to prevent it from being realized. It began with all the selection of the house for consulting, the choice of "Sofreka", which led to a change in the original goal and the item that reads for the purchase of equipment, i.e. the completion of the blood plasma fractionation unit, has been erased. Instead, the centre for blood plasma fractionation in Belgrade was shut down. What are the consequences of that? The consequences are disastrous for Serbia. Right now, let me say that I'm not from the profession, I'm a graduate engineer, all this stuff that I'm saying came from the profession. What are the consequences? First, what do you get by fractionating your blood plasma? They come from information I have from my profession, blood derivatives used to treat some serious diseases. If Serbia does not have the centre, the blood plasma from Serbia must be sent out of the country somewhere for fractionation. The idea is to do it favorably outside Serbia. When working outside Serbia, there is a risk. There is a risk that products returning to Serbia are not from the blood plasma sent from Serbia. In fact, all these centres outside Serbia will not only fractionate Serbian plasma, but will also fractionate blood plasma from other regions, Africa, Asia and who knows where. If these blood derivatives return to Serbia, which is not native, this will lead to a health disorder for people who use these blood products, or an immune system disorder of a complete nation. So we have a problem that someone is consciously trying to endanger the health of a complete nation. If it's done consciously, and here it's a de facto fact that it's done consciously, then it can only be called one name, which is treason, or high treason. That's just high treason. And this reform in Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service is identical, perhaps even more devastating than the reforms carried out by today's president of Serbia, and then the defence minister of our common state, Mr Tadic, when he mutilated and destroyed our army. What happens next? In addition to this segment around blood plasma, this group that pushes and imposes such a project reform of Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service is trying and managing to eliminate the autonomy of all regional blood transfusion centres. So, all the transfusion centres that worked at health centres in the regions are placed under one central authority, i.e. to be more precise, only three centres, Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, are left in Serbia, and all regions are shut down in the sense that their autonomy is being extinguished. They're now operating as working units on this, and it's hard by the tormented employees there to be working units. The idea was that blood from all over Serbia was sent to these three centres, and then these three centres returned a number of units of blood, according to their estimates, of course to health centres in the districts. I don't know what that's about. I don't know who the author of this kind of reform is. I come from the Zlatibor County, the Transfusion Service at the Health Center in Užica has functioned extremely well. All those who resisted this reform are prone. Although blood donors from the Zlatibor County and all municipalities have made an appeal to you as a minister, even though the management of all ten municipalities from the district have brought in one joint declaration, signed by the presidents of all ten municipalities, signed by the presidents of the voluntary association of all ten municipalities, regardless of all these appeals, it is the over 300,000 citizens who are serving this health center, the service at the Užice Health Center is being shut down, in the sense that its autonomy is being abolished and it must now operate as a working unit. I'm saying again that it's hard work done to be a task force. These are all reasons why we do not trust Mr Milosavljevic. I am taking the opportunity to ask a parliamentary question, which should be said – I am interested in who is the author of this reform of the Serbian Blood Transit Service? If the original idea was different, if the original idea was that the fractionation of blood plasma works in Serbia, why is it and who changed that idea? Let me remind you, all the countries around us, or almost all of us, have these centers and struggle to keep these centers alive and to survive. Austria has three such centres, one of which works only for Austria and the other two work for service processing. So one is only for their citizens, so they don't mix their blood plasma with others. We're doing the opposite. I said it was just a betrayal, if all of this is true. Another question I ask – how much money has been spent so far for these purposes? So, in addition to the five million that the EU has allocated as a donation, how much has been spent from the budget so far, since the reform is still at some initial stage? Another example I wanted to point out, which is also one of the reasons for our mistrust with our health minister, is that something is happening again in Užica at the Health Center, and I hear that the same thing is happening in Sremska Mitrovica, perhaps in some other regional centres. Namely, it is a reconstruction of the work of the Health Center in Užica, and I hear that it is the same thing in Sremska Mitrovica. I'm not going to convince what's said there, both at the Health Center and in public, and that's why I'm only going to ask a question. The first question is - who is the president and who are the members of the tender committee who held a tender for the execution of works at the Health Centre in Užica? The second question, I know who got the papers, it says on the board at the Health Center, I know who does the work, but I'm interested – who owns the company that got this job in the tender? The third question – what is the basic activity of this company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23435	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Just a minute. It's five questions in total, isn't it? Let's check it out in the morning. So two, then three. Thank you. Here you go, Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23436	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as far as parliamentary matters are concerned, there is a procedure for that, I suppose. This means that every question that has been raised in this House as a parliamentary question has been answered by the Ministry of Health within the deadline. Very well-intentioned, if I were you, I would hardly dare speak as a machine engineer on behalf of someone, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23437	But I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23438	Allow me, honesty...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23439	It's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure to talk about private matters. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23440	I'm sorry. A few questions were asked in the preceding words. I will try to sum up what is actually happening with the reform of the transfusiological service in Serbia. Since 2000, the European Union has been helping Serbia's healthcare in different ways. One of these ways is to support the national transfusiological service, so to speak, which does not actually exist at this time as a national transfusiological service, but exists in Belgrade, seduces, transfusiological services in various institutions of Serbia. The project implies a period between 2003 and June 2006, and a total aid of 5.5, for example, million euros. I don't even know exactly how much, she knows exactly how much the EU gives. And there is a European Agency for Reconstruction, which implements the project under European laws. What is important for the Serbian health minister? Is it important for the Serbian transfusion service to receive a gift from the EU? Of course it's important. This gift implies respect for the procedures of European law. This does not mean that the EU brings money into a bag and says – this is money, and now you do whatever you want in a transfusion, but first, along with experts who do this job in Serbia... There are 173 doctors dealing with transfusionology in a narrow sense, and they are experts who run this business throughout Serbia. The tradition of blood donation is rich and great. However, the fact is that it happens years ago, and it actually takes MPs to know, that at one point, for example. There's enough blood from donors in Subotica, so much that there's not enough bags to collect that amount of blood, and at the same time blood for transfusions is missing in some parts of the country. Why? Because it's an unequal blood supply. It is very important that blood donation be voluntary, that it be for an unknown recipient, not ordered or for a relative, and that it be not paid. It is a strategic commitment to strengthen the donation that is voluntary, which is unpaid and which is for an anonymous recipient in this country. The project should help draw up a strategy that Serbia imagines should look like a transfusion service in Serbia. Is it even necessary to have a strategy and is our transfusion service ideally organized? It's not ideally organized, because it's over-decentralized, because everyone in every transfusion center does all the work in the transfusion area, from collecting blood samples to preparing blood for the patient, through testing and blood for safety. Such a system is not sufficiently efficient and reliable anywhere and it can happen that blood testing in 42 different places does not fully respect the same protocols and that is a well-known fact at European level. The World Health Organization has the view that countries should review their transfusion services and suggestions to us, as a health sector, was to help us analyze the existing situation, to buy missing equipment and build some missing buildings, to design our own strategy with the help of experts. I don't know how to make it, as a health minister and as a man who deals with a part of the job. None of you MPs know, I suppose, but that's why there's a procedure for how that document is made up. In April 2005, a document was drawn up called the National Transfusion Service Strategy in Serbia, to provide enough safe blood for all in Serbia. In the meantime, in Nis, for example. completes the building which will be opened early next year. Some of the equipment is already installed in Belgrade, Novi Sad. The procurement procedures, the tenders, the people involved, are all available where the procedures for spending donor money are available. When someone gives you money, then he has his own rules. When he gives you 5.5m euros, then he gives you according to his regulations, he has inspections that come and control it. And when one negative campaign was created, like months ago, unfortunately tried to create, then the health ministry in the last three months answered, I think, four parliamentary questions, which were identical, and four questions of the blood donor association from certain regions that were identical, as photocopyed. They were literally given everything in those answers, including the complete documentation that exists at the Ministry of Health on this. When tomorrow in the day (I hope not night, you will not have to vote at night, but who knows) vote as MPs of this law, there is a condition for something else planned for this project, which is that Serbia has its own strategy and to pass a law on blood transfusions. Therefore, no one else will decide how to organise a transfusion service in Serbia, whether each hospital should have its own service and buy whatever it takes from the apparatus for the service, so how much it cost to cost. Or maybe a country of 7.5 million people with this many centers has a more elaborate strategy, which spends less money and with more effects. It's a question that will not be so easy to answer, because the draft law is made exactly by experts in this area. I said, there's no 1730s, there's 173. You will also pass a law on the Red Cross that says: gathering of voluntary blood donors, their motivation should be done by the Red Cross, not that they set up their own associations and begin to perform as a parallel Red Cross and then be manipulated because they are not informed. It's a complete lie and it's not true when you say it – there's talk about a faction center. The complacency is, I learned it from this transfusiologist thing, when a country needs to have so many voluntary blood donors to collect enough blood for itself and to have it at all times in every hospital. Every doctor will explain to you, it's not just blood, you say give an injection, so it's over, but there's a criterion for who is given, who is not given, who is given what blood is given. National center for separation – of course, but according to European principles in the central institution at the Institute of the "Sveta Sava". As far as voluntary blood donation is concerned, here is the day before the truth - giving declines. That's not true. Giving is growing. Since 15 June, we have had a regular campaign at national level, including Bajaga, Ana Stanic, Dejan Cukic. For the first time in some parts of the country, for example in Bujanovac, there were donors who had never given blood before, both Serbs and Albanians. The new national campaign begins on 16 December and I will be free to invite Mr. President of the Assembly to help us call on citizens to participate in this campaign, because this campaign should be permanent, continuous, to help us with our presence, and all of you. Therefore, I understand your good intentions and try to simply tell the MPs – it is untrue to manipulate blood in this way, and by transfusion. At the meeting where the strategy was brought, the same people who told you these stories and didn't raise their hand, stood up and said their position if it was different. He sat down as Director of the Council of Europe for Health Affairs, sat down as a WHO expert on the area and assessed that the project was developing properly. I'll be free to call you and your MP group in Nis on December 16th, where we'll see exactly when we open the building. It depends, of course, on the efforts of local self-government to provide electricity, heating and water. Everything else is a complete mix of half-truths, a lie. After all, we will answer as a ministry to a parliamentary question, precisely. You said, "There's something going on in Užica." Oh, my God, it's done. The investment in Užica is the largest, out of 50m euros. The project is called - emergency intervention in 20 Serbian hospitals, including "Torak". The "Tarlak" story has been completed with the signing of the contract and 2.5m euros are being invested from January to November in the renewal of a vaccine programme against polio. We expect to be in a position at the end of 2006 to return the World Health Organization certificate and that the Tolak vaccine can be sold all over the world. One out of 20 hospitals is a pleasure. I think the project is worth between 2.5m and 3.2m euros. It's usually 70% infrastructure and 30% equipment in these hospitals. How do you do that? The project is due to be completed in early 2007 and to be evaluated in mid-2007. Already today at Smeder's people are not frozen in the hospital, because it's a completely changed way of heating, windows and doors have been changed, the kitchen has been changed, and now it's started to work on the reconstruction of surgery and intensive care. Emergency reception and neuropsychiatry opened in Jagodina. The work begins in Čuprije, Paracino has completed the drive of surgery, in Kruševec the works have started, in Sremska Mitrovica have moved far away, the walls are being walled, you remember Mitrovica, because I think a pleasure company got a job there. How'd they get jobs? In "Politics" occasionally come out bilingually large ads offers. Competitions are being played so that, on the one hand, the procedure of the European Investment Bank is respected, and on the other hand, I must say my personal insistence, the procedure of our Public Procurement Act has always been respected. Believe it or not, the European Bank didn't mind when we explained it, but, for example, with such projects, it is a condition primarily of the banker. However, we in the ministry insisted that it be respected, both with the World Bank project and with this, both procedures. Who got the job? Who owns it, what does it do? We'll answer that in writing. The equipment competition is one for all 20 hospitals and, of course, the chairman of the decision-making committee is the minister. The deputy president is the deputy minister, and members of the commission are ministerial assistants. Why? Because it's a big responsibility and because I want to be absolutely sure that 20 hospitals are where the equipment came in, so we can stop and say, here's how we did it. Everyone is also available on the Ministry of Health website (and you don't even have to ask, but you asked, we'll answer your questions) to the project and find all the data by the dates until the project arrived, how it goes. It's about the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23441	Certainly, the MP will use his right, not you now, but otherwise, and ask parliamentary questions, because MPs have elected ministers and it is important that many things are spoken from the speakers, so there is immunity for both MPs and ministers, but the document is given with the seal. And to you, Mr. Jovanovic, you put me in a position that the minister called me, you heard, you think he really invited me to call the MPs? No, it's to give blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23442	And the minister invited me to give blood, and I thank you for that. I've already given blood twice this year and as chairman of the SRS Management Board in the pleasure district every year I give blood to the party's rooms in Uzic. That's not controversial. As far as these pairs of Europeans are concerned, should they be used, etc. – in principle, if a donation threatens something of national interest, it should not be used. If he's not threatening, of course he should. I said it in principle, I didn't say it specifically. The third thing, I'm interested, you didn't exactly tell me here in the strategy that you mentioned, which is, as far as I can tell, what's the situation with this fractionation center? Does it survive or not? Fourth thing, the principle of self-satisfaction. You have given one definition of the principle of self-satisfaction, that it is the state's ability to meet its needs. But I have another definition here that says that it means that blood is prepared from one region and used exclusively for the population that lives there; there's also enough blood, but it's also used in that region where it's taken. So this is a propo story I just told. I don't know if that's true, I said. If it's true, it's not good. And the propo story means that our blood plasma will go to Austria, Switzerland and somewhere else to break, so that something that isn't ours comes back, because then it's not the principle of self-satisfaction. So, we want that principle, it's prescribed by the World Health Organization, we respect it. But there's a fear, based on everything that's happened these past few years, that this center will be shut down. I'm just asking if in the strategy you mentioned earlier, this centre survives to work in Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23443	I apologize for making a joke, but we've just been working here for days, all of you MPs, I've been playing football for two hours this afternoon, and so tired of inviting us to guarantee that we'll give blood... But we'll give it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23444	Really short: the strategy was sent to every MP in the name and name of the Serbian Parliament. I don't even know how there's no information. She's been sent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23445	All MP groups decide, some share in one way or another, huge materials that arrive to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23446	The issue of plasma separation is not a political issue at all, and it is not at all a question that should be cut down by the minister or by any authority of the state. The question of separation of plasma and the production of antibodies, serums, is primarily a professional and technological issue. No one has ever said anywhere that a fractionation centre will be shut down at the Institute for Blood Transfusion in Belgrade. We'll send blood. I don't know where to put it back. Self-satisfaction is not the complacency of the Užica, nor of the Zlatibor County and cannot be spoken – I do not give my blood from here, but what I give it will be here; we are the Republic of Serbia. It is a national interest at the level of Serbia, giving and such procedures will be provided to keep everyone safe, regardless of whether he is from Užica, Bosilegrad, Shop, Kikinda, Sapca, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis; everything else is a matter of techniques and organisations. Basically, you will have in your hands the law on blood transfusions and will be one of the results of these efforts two or three years ago and it will be available to you to talk about it and to install in it everything you think you need.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23447	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 243 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 256 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Radoslav Jovic and Nikola Jovanovic have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of 263a be added after article 263a. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vesna Lalic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 275 be added after article 275. The government has accepted this amendment. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Professor Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, the minister, want to give the closing statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23448	I'm not going to be rash, I promise you in advance. I thank everyone for the effort we have made together to explain to ourselves these few days some dilemmas and to show the citizens of Serbia a high degree of seriousness and responsibility. I am convinced that after tomorrow we will be satisfied, because together with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which represents a basic document that allows the state in 2006, thank God, to function even better than in 2005, we will also adopt laws in the field of health care, health care organisations, chambers, insurance, of course the law on the Red Cross and the Precursors of opiates, and we will all be satisfied, because we have marked the beginning of a different regulation of the area that is important to each of us as a citizen, given how long we have examined some solutions, scales, discussed them. I think that Serbian citizens deserve to receive even better health care at the end of 2005 and in early 2006 according to new regulations, to recognize in us people who care about the health of Serbian citizens, primarily insisting that we live healthier, to avoid risk factors of behavior, not to drink, not to smoke, to move physically, not to be overweight, so that we can prevent anything that can be prevented, and that thanks to these regulations, we treat everything that can be treated, and even what we cannot today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-27-0.u23449	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Before I set a voting day, I would like to thank you once again for the responsibility of all of you from all MP groups that, by making a huge effort all these days and nights, you have presented your views. Compared to that, tomorrow in voting day, each according to their views, concepts, the decisions of your political parties, but based on a clear and transparent final discussion, after several months of expert discussions on many of these laws that we have reviewed, of course, you will vote as you decide, but you have taken advantage of the opportunity for citizens to know how many different concepts participate and how responsibly MPs do their work before they pass some law. Thank you so much for that responsibility. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint Monday 28th November 2005, at 10.00pm, as a day for voting on all points of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. You who are now in your parliamentary clubs or here in the Assembly have almost 12.5 hours to rest. I wish you a vacation by tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 163 MPs attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 118 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions to start the working day. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported that he has been prevented from attending today's session. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, we will move on to a decision after the break, at 10:30. We'll give a five-minute break to get a few more MPs in to get started on time. Thank you. Get your fellow MPs to enter the O.R.
