ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14060	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 152 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic and Išpanović Istvan. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Important Energy Law by the National Assembly (Common Principled Search with the 15th and 23rd Points - Candidates for the Council of the Energy Agency and the Strategy for the Development of Energy of Serbia by 2015) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the draft law on the termination of the law on electricity law, a single search on the proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on proposals for three of those agenda points. Authorised representatives for these agenda points are for DSS - Vladan Jovicic, and for SPS - Dragan S. Jovanovic. Does the proposing representative, Minister Radomir Naumov, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14061	Mr. President, gentlemen of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, eight months ago this distinguished house passed the Energy Act, which is a fundamental legal act governing new relations in Serbia's energy economy and laying down new rules for the operation and operation of energy subjects and the development of Serbia's energy sectors. The law promotes energy policy objectives and sets out the obligation to adopt a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy for a period of at least 10 years, as well as the obligation to adopt programmes for the achievement of the Strategy, for a period of at least six years. The energy development strategy defines the priorities of the overall development of the energy system and explains the need to adopt appropriate instruments and measures to implement priority programmes and achieve the promotion of the objectives of this policy. For the future development of the energy sector in Serbia, in addition to these documents, the Mining Act, the Law on concessions and the Law on the Protection of the Environment, as well as the relevant regulations governing conditions for the construction of new energy facilities and for the quality of the provision of energy services in the supply and supply of electricity, heat and natural gas are also important. According to the Energy Act, there are institutional, structural, economic and ownership changes in public energy companies in Serbia, which gradually establish new conditions for the work, business of energy operators and the development of energy production sectors. Institutional changes are characterized by the establishment of the Energy Efficiency Agency, and there is a preparation for the establishment of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, which should follow immediately after the appointment of the president and members of the Energy Agency's Council. As you know, the Energy Agency has the role of a regulatory body to perform tasks in improving and directing the development of the energy market, on the principles of non-discrimination and effective competition, further to monitor the application of rules and rules for the operation of the energy system, as well as to coordinate the activities of entities in ensuring regular supply of energy and services, including their protection and equal position. In this respect, this agency is specific, as it will, in accordance with the law, carry out certain tasks which have been in the jurisdiction of the national authorities so far, such as the issue of a licence for the performance of energy operations, the establishment of a proposal for tariff systems, the price of energy products and the cost of energy services. The regulated energy and energy prices will be provided for the protection of tariff and energy service users for the regulation of the operation of monopoly works, as well as the protection of the owners of energy facilities, which is through the establishment of prices based on eligible costs. Given the extent of the Agency's rights and functioning, members of the Council must be people with great professional experience and proven professional ethics, people with high moral integrity. At the same time with full knowledge of energy at systemic and technological levels, they should monitor the work of energy operators and energy systems. In order to successfully follow the rules and rules of work of the system, members of the Agency's Council must understand the regulations and functioning of Serbia's overall energy system, in order to be able to address the problems imposed by real energy practice in time and adequately. In this regard, I believe that the proposed president and members of the Agency's Council represent an optimal solution. Structural and organisational changes relate to the reorganisation of the existing structure of the public energy economy. When it comes to EPS, changes are made in the gradual separation of parts of the current vertically integrated public company EPS, where basic activities are not taking place, as well as the establishment of two legally independent energy entities, as the government has already done in January this year by adopting founding acts for these two companies. The first entity, i.e. the company, comes from today's electricity transmission system and parts of the EPS dealing with the system's management functions and remains owned by the state, is Serbia's electricity network. The second entity comes from today's power generation company, including land-exploitation mines, and today's electricity distribution company, and as such, the entity remains owned by a complex power company, today's public enterprise, which is the EPS. In the case of a gas economy, the Ministry of Mining and Energy will, based on the findings of the previous analyses and decisions made by the Management Board of the Public Enterprise "NIS" on the possible models and effects of reorganising this company, these days propose to the government a model for the reorganisation of Serbia's oil and gas economy, according to the criteria laid down in the Energy Act and the relevant directives of the European Union. Since the new life of these two companies in Elektroprivred will begin from July 1st this year, it is therefore proposed a law that determines the termination of the current Electricity Act as of June 30th. Gentlemen, in these emerging conditions of socio-economic reforms and the urgency that our country joins the European Union, it is necessary to establish a strategy for the development of Serbia's energy, even in the absence of a strategy for economic development of the Republic, in order to point out priorities, priority directions for development of the entire energy system, which will increase the security of supply to businesses and citizens of energy and increase the quality of energy services, while reducing the cost of providing these services, both at the country level and at the level of each consumer. In this regard, the proposal for a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, which is under discussion today, is based on insight into the current state of Serbia's overall energy system. The whole is comprised of energy consumption sectors and energy production sectors. In this first sector are industry, traffic, general consumption, which includes households, public and commercial activities, and agriculture. Of course, energy production sectors are oil and gas industries, coal mines, electricity, municipal heat and industrial energy. As the strategy was drawn, knowledge of the change in the final energy consumption structure was used during 2003, estimated from 1990 to all sectors of consumption. This assessment shows, for example, that The reduction in energy consumption in industry by around 40%, and in traffic general consumption has been slightly increased. The participation of individual sectors has also changed. Industry participation from 43% in 1990 fell to 31% in 2003. The share of consumption in the traffic sector increased by about 7% compared to 1990. Also, the share of liquid fuels in final consumption, which was 43% in 1990, decreased to 36% in 2003, while electricity increased from 21% to close to 30% and natural gas decreased by about 1%. These indicators point to an unfavourable final energy structure in Serbia, especially when it comes to the household sector in which electricity participation in total consumption in this sector was increased from 38% to about 55% in 1990. In the past four years, Serbia has been able to significantly increase not only the production of electricity and heat, but also the security of supply of economy and citizens to all energy, thanks to the financial support of the international community, which was directed into programmes for renovation, rehabilitation, and the modernisation of energy sources, primarily in electricity and municipal heat. Unfortunately, not in the oil and gas industries. The result is that last year has been one of the most successful or successful years in terms of our country's energy functioning for the past 15 years. The work, business and development of energy production systems are conditioned by a number of specific, but also by natural constraints. It is, above all, about economic and economic constraints, which are seen in the slow recovery of the national economy. The 2004 gross social product is only 56% compared to 1990, expressed over the 1994 dollar. The added value of the industry sector is below 40% in 1990. Specific restrictions are technological, both in terms of energy and production technologies, in all sectors of industry, including traffic. Apart from two blocks in the "Nikola Tesla B" thermal power plant and some small modern industrial enterprises, it is the technology of the 1980s, when the issue of energy efficiency had no key impact on sustainable socio-economic development as it is today, when the whole developed world, and many developing countries, are rapidly raising the technological level of all sectors of the national economy through the introduction of new energy-efficient and environmentally acceptable technologies, as well as rehabilitation and modernisation of existing energy sources. There are other restrictions, objective, natural constraints on Serbia's available energy resources, and not only in quality energy, such as oil, natural gas and quality coal, but also limited lignite reserves on central Serbia's territory, including uncertain outcomes of agreements with the former republics of Yugoslavia on the use of the remaining technically useful hydroenergy potential. Or, imposed political restrictions on Serbia's energy sector access to the part of the power infrastructure and the use of our largest lignite resource located in Kosovo and Metohija bases. In this context, the issue of our approach to lignite in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija must be a long-term state priority, given the possible consequences for future development not only of the energy sector, but also of the long-term economic and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. In order to make the global objectives of the new energy policy realistic, the strategy comes from the existing situation across Serbia's energy system and respects the opportunities and restrictions arising from the economic development of the country, available energy resources and technical, technological, productive and economic performances of production systems. Based on positive experiences over the past four years to improve the technological situation and operational performance, it has been estimated that in the next short period of four to six years, the security of supply of economy and citizens to heat, electricity and business economy will depend on the effectiveness of the programme, I would also say the continuity, technological modernisation and effects of the implementation of the rational use programme. The basic premises for energy needs were made for two scenarios of economic development by 2015, i.e. for the assumed demographic, macroeconomic and energy indicators for the overall economy and industry, respecting the estimates of the National Bank of Serbia, the Government of Serbia, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, according to which a favourable rate of GDP growth in the next ten years for Serbia's economy can range between four and five percent annually, and in industry between 2.6 and 3.6% annually. In line with the promotional objectives of Serbia's energy policy and these basic premises to identify energy needs, five basic priority programmes have been selected in the energy development strategy, which are diverse in programme content, but complemented by the position of harmonising the work and development of the overall energy system. The following priorities are discussed: first or foremost priority is the continuity of technological modernisation; second or targeted priority is the rational use of quality energy; third or special priority is the use of new and renewable electricity sources, especially the biomass of small river streams; fourth or optional priorities are extraordinary. Emergency investment in new power sources; and fifth or long-term development and regional strategic priority is building new energy infrastructure facilities and electricity heat sources within Serbia's energy sectors. The first three priority programmes were recognised before setting energy needs by 2015, according to the selected scenarios of Serbia's economic and industrial development. These de facto programmes are in some way imposed on existing energy and technological and environmental conditions, and as such constitute a condition for Serbia's economically certain and energy-efficient and acceptable energy development in the coming period. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a strategy for the development of Serbia's energy by 2015 details the content of the programme of individual priorities, described the measures enabling them to be realised and presented positive effects on the whole of the energy system. With regard to these programmes, I would like to remind you that if you did not recognise the location, concept and capacity of the new energy source in this document, it is because, according to the Energy Act, detailed strategy programmes for each energy generation sector will be developed after the adoption of this strategy. The preliminary estimated amount of financial investment for the implementation of priority programmes, in general, is about $7.7 billion and it is only seemingly high. It represents only 3.7% of the total gross social product achieved in 2015. In this respect, it should be noted that there has been no investment in new energy sources and facilities in the Republic in the last 15 years and that nearly 50% of the funds are intended for technological modernisation programmes of existing energy infrastructure. The usual volume of investment investments in the energy sector in the European Union countries, especially in Central and Southeast European countries, has been moving between 2.2% and 3.2% of the country's gross social product achieved over the past period. Finally, in order for the objectives of the new energy policy to be achieved or achieved, i.e. priority programmes to be implemented, in the strategy, you have seen, the basic mechanisms of social and state impact on market business and increasing financial stability have also been explained. First, the establishment of a rational market environment, harmonisation of tariff and price, tax, customs and anti-monopol regulations, as well as structural reorganisation of energy enterprises and more effective control of social property in the energy economy. Secondly, the establishment of new modern technical regulations, regulations and standards for energy technologies and the establishment of specific instruments to stimulate activities for rational use and efficient use of energy. Third, reaching an agreement on Serbia's accession, with the whole of its territory, to the energy community of Southeast European countries, whose establishment is expected in 2005, i.e. it is already, in practice, established, and at the end of June, it will only be a solemn signing of the treaty on the establishment of this community. Fourth, establishing the basis for the ratification of Kyoto Protocol and our obligations arising from its implementation. Fifthly, stimulating and supporting strategic initiatives in the domain of investments in new energy sources and energy efficient energy use devices, as well as financial incentives for private investment in economically effective programmes and selective use of new and renewable energy sources. The sixth, implementation of the social protection policy of the poorest category of population, taking into account the protection of the economic situation of the economy and the provision of the population to energy. It is in the government's jurisdiction that, in the case of inadequate and untimely interest of other investors to build new production capacity, energy public undertakings should be provided with conditions for taking timely measures in order to create conditions for reliable and regular supply of energy consumers. Dear People's MPs, the Serbian government has taken the view that Serbia must preserve energy as a national resource. We are aware that energy has to adapt to the demands and changes that have hit this sector in the last 15 years. All the changes that have occurred and happening in the energy sector are dramatic. They are dramatic because companies in the sector require independence, market orientation and international competitiveness. As the biggest task ahead of energy, the concept of sustainable development is set up. The changes are coming and being imposed by richer, orderly and economically stable societies. From there and the weight of the problem we started to solve. The fact is that countries in transition, which have entered the process with too many optimism, actually, have gone to the strawberries, and now face the consequences of premature and unverified moves. That is why we want to preserve domestic energy, which directly and indirectly employs a huge number of people and businesses. We must not and should not be wrong in the way of reorganising and adapting this sector to modern processes. That's why we've brought this strategy that hopefully allows this kind of approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14062	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Dragan S. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14063	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's united debate, in my opinion, the most important place, and by complexity, is taking up this proposal to determine Serbia's energy development strategy by 2015. In this respect, I do not deny the importance of any other two issues, i.e. the draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act, as well as the Proposal for a Council of the Energy Agency. In particular, I think that these are important issues from the position of creating preconditions and assumptions for the functioning of the future energy sector, as well as for the implementation of the strategy that we are talking about today. I have to admit that the Prime Minister's opening statement has been a few blocks of my planned presentation, but I'm going to try to say something. The SPS parliamentary group respects the need for the existence of such a document, I am talking about a strategy, especially in terms of how to regulate the internal energy issue, as well as the positions in front of international factors, which, in this sector, are still needed in terms of investment in reconstruction and revitalisation, and in terms of investment, so beyond what is necessary, in the energy sector. By considering the proposal submitted, I would like to try to pay attention to three questions that seem important to me. The first is the ambience in which this strategy is brought. The second is the priority programmes of the strategy. The third are some status issues of energy, which I think have a bigger place in the strategy's proposal. At the beginning of the proposal, already on the first page, in the introduction, I will quote: "The basic premise in selecting targets, setting priorities and appropriate instruments is based on the country's political definition of rationale for the development of overall energy with the economic and economic development of the country and its inclusion in European integration. "A rather clear sentence, quite logical and hardly anything against it. It is clear that a strategy of this kind of importance would be adopted, it is necessary to lay down and as a base take a strategy for the country's overall economic and economic development. However, in the next pages of the strategy, we are familiar with the fact, and so did the minister in the opening statement, that there is no strategy for economic development in Serbia, and that the authors of the energy development strategy, in fact, brought input data and basic documents based on the assumptions of certain macroeconomic developments in Serbia, which they estimated would be represented in the period this strategy relates to. Another unknown I want to highlight is the current transitional status of Kosovo and Metohija, which is clearly a general problem for the whole policy, economy and economy and the overall problem for the country. When we find ourselves on energy, I remind you, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, there are lignite resources of over 70% of Serbia's total reserves, so it's quite clear from that aspect, and knowing that the dominant production of electricity in our Republic is from the thermo-sector, then we understand how much this unknown interferes with a clearer and more precise strategy. Therefore, the strategy has been developed in one alternative form and it treats two equal opportunities for future economic development, which is dynamic and slowed economic development. In these conditions, the strategy, which has been given to us for consideration, was objectively and could not be more precise and better, because it was proposed on the basis of respecting the current and expected economic and economic circumstances, without parts of sectors located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. We are also witnessing the absence of a clear state policy towards this sector, and when I say state policies, I am excluding the Ministry of Mining and Energy. If we have come to realize that we are making strategies for specific actions in conditions of lack of a state strategy, then we simply have to open one question, however much we want to spare this area from politicisation, and this question has to be asked: what are our governments, what our government has been doing since 2001 to 2004, if such fundamental documents have not been passed. I don't want to turn the story on other subjects, maybe we're part of the answer to that question and we heard it in some media last night, where we could clearly figure out what that government was doing. I don't want to open that question. The question is, in the absence of an economic and industrial strategy and development, how can a strategy in this country be adopted at all, when we know that this is one base platform for all other issues. By the way, this is why it is surprising and surprises the considerable courage of members of the former government, who are today authoritatively coming out here criticising energy processes, criticising them with slow restructuring processes, and it is clear from everything that they have done during their term of office, except that they have burdened energy with numerous affairs. Another issue relating to the priority programmes of the strategy I would like to draw a little closer to the basic material. Analyzing the strategy, we find that only in the fifth priority is the construction of new energy infrastructures and new electricity and heat sources, as well as capital-intense energy infrastructures. Furthermore, in the text and basic premises, it is clear that this fifth priority is also conditional and depends on this dynamic that I mentioned earlier. We can assume each other as an alternative option. On the other hand, we are witnessing that at 40km from Belgrade there is one investment in progress, which is the "Colubar B" Termopower Plant, installed twice 350 megawatts, in which, to remind you, about 40% of the investment value has been invested so far. Let me remind you that talks are being held these days on the subject of possible continuation of the construction of this thermoenergy capacity. On the other hand, I think it's an investment that deserves a place in this strategy in order to define ourselves accordingly. Does the state of Serbia think that this investment is going towards completion or in some alternative situations there is another idea. Also, not to go into details, for several years there have been studies about the possibility of building a 800-megawatt block at the site of the "Nikola Tesla" B Termo power plant, and I'm only talking about capital investments, so my point is that these significant items are not treated in this strategy as more specific options than those treated. For a moment, let's just stick to this finding, so if you'll let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14064	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14065	Just a minute to finish my thought. I won't use the other 10 now, I'll leave it for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14066	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14067	The important thing is to say, by looking at the document of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia called - Development Goals for the period until 2006, it is said that one of the basic development goals is to reduce electricity deficits from the middle of this decade, so that the Elektroprivred would be able to provide consumers, both in economy and households, neatly, timelyly and efficiently with electricity, without systematic imports. I think it's a strategically important definition. In order to achieve this strategic goal, basic development directions are also needed, and they apply, I don't have time to go into detail, to end the production capacities that are in progress and start new, and are related to the replacement of the lignites that have exhausted the reserves. At this point, the EPS already knows that we have a deficit in electricity production and that if we do not start to invest energy sources, we are threatened with a serious deficit, which can lead us to a situation of systematic imports of electricity. I'll just remind you and say, politics and the SPS program on these issues are quite clear. The first is to provide development policy with conditions for energy potentials to produce sufficient amounts of electricity for the needs of the economy and citizens, and for certain periods to create export opportunities. Secondly, that the energy restructuring programme, whose start is already under way, is implemented with respect to social programmes and collective agreements, and in this respect we support the efforts of the workers' union of Elektroprivreda. Third, that energy companies must remain state-owned and therefore the government and the ministry resist some obvious efforts to bring these powerful companies into a situation of crisis, in a situation that they cannot become profitable and, as such, offer to sell out in a short time. I will retain the right to continue the third question in the second period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14068	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The river has Slobodan Mihajlovic, an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14069	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after eight months today is on the agenda of energy again. In the part of the application of the Energy Act, this could have been significantly earlier, but the process of establishing a strategy for energy development has been shortened, and there are also a lot of objections on the proposed strategy. As regards the first point in this united debate, on the abolition of the Electricity Act, it should be recalled that the period of six months is respected by the Elektroprivreda, i.e. the Ministry, and that it is in accordance with Article 170. The Energy Act respects it until the end. However, this could have been much earlier, especially since there is no dilemma regarding the separation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda and the creation of Serbia's power grid. This could have happened earlier, and this would have given it more time to establish two new public enterprises, and would have been achieved in dynamics regarding a new organisation in electricity in general. After this, there is, in itself, a question -- and what about the oil industry of Serbia? What about the NIS Act, so-called War law? Is there anything planned regarding the application of the Energy, Restructuring and New Organization Act? So we don't have an answer to that. But regardless of these calls, not so big, objections regarding this bill, the DS MP club Boris Tadic will vote for this bill, i.e. on the termination of the Electricity Act. Point 14 of the agenda is the proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Energy Agency's Council, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning of my presentation on this point, I'm just going to quote Article 163. The Energy Act, which literally says: "The president and members of the Council will be appointed within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The government of the Republic of Serbia will submit a proposal to the National Assembly within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law for a list of candidates to elect a president and members of the Council. The council will be established within 30 days of the election day. "Today is 12 April 2005, 240 and some day since the adoption of this law. This was supposed to be on the agenda exactly six months ago, and the question is clear -- which is why there was such a delay, given the need for faster implementation of reforms in the energy sector. One reason is also political trade. Namely, one of the proposed members of the Agency's Council until the other day was also a committee member G17 plus in SO Fireman. During the establishment of power in SO Firevac, another vote was needed to establish the PSS coalition, the SPS and the SRS and it was missing. At first, the G17 plus did not agree to such a non-principle coalition and therefore the Assembly Committee on Industry has been trying to put the Agency's proposal on the agenda three times in a row since the end of last year. The reason was the lack of quorum. Obviously, the deal was reached because the fourth time the proposal was passed on the same board. I think the Minister of Mining and Energy could say what we lost in these six months from the EU, as regards hitchhiking the implementation of a new organisation and reform in the energy sector. In doing so, we should say that we are the last country in the region to form the Energy Agency, even after Albania. It is obvious that local political trade, by reputation of past times, was much more important than our country's strategic interests. A clear and unequivocal question arises, with a very complex answer, who will answer for all of this. The second remark concerns the concept of the Agency's Council's proposal. There is no member of the Council who, with his experience and expertise, could do his job with a knowledge of oil and gas issues. They're all from the field of electricity, economics, and there's no one in the area of oil and gas, as a very important part of energy at all. Also, the human potential of Serbia's energy has not been exploited, but the principle of delegation of members of the council from the ruling majority was used when forming the government's proposal. And who knows which time we're asking ourselves -- is that minority support to the government when it comes to the engagement of SPS personnel? This way of selecting members of the Agency's Council raises doubts and the possibility to oppose the interests of already formed and publicly known energy lobbys. Individually, the proposed Agency Council can be discussed for a long time, some due to a large party biography, others due to a very modest professional biography or professional biography that has no touch points with energy. With all this in mind, it is justified to doubt and worry whether the current Government is aware of the importance of authority which will have the future Council of the Agency. Why, after the publication of a public call, is not public, by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, a reasoned proposal for a personal composition that will have a future Council of the Agency. After all, what are the government's guarantees that it will form an independent body of any influence, that any party's influence or influence on the Energy Agency will be removed. Because of all this, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will not vote for this proposal by the Energy Agency's Council. As regards the Energy Strategy by 2015, which is the 23rd point of the proposed agenda in this united debate, Article 5. The energy law provides that, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly should adopt a strategy for energy development for a period of at least ten years. One such document, of national interest and importance, should precede a national consensus on its adoption. Also, this strategy should be based on a previously adopted strategy for economic development, from which the needs of the energy sector arise. Instead of the non-existent strategy of economic development, as the basis for this energy development strategy, data on the state of production, imports and consumption of electricity, their projections for the next ten years are taken by the end of 2002, without updating the data for 2003 and 2004. And we are already in the second quarter of 2005 and there is no answer to this question in the government's proposal. The strategy, without ideas and a clear direction for development in the energy sector, is mainly the result of a lack of vision, knowledge and solutions for the abundance of the upcoming challenges, necessary and comprehensive reforms. All answers to key questions the government does not give, but solves problems when faced with them. This creates an illusion of activity in this field, solving problems is delayed, and the government gets time. A significant lack of strategy is its defensive character - there are places where authors are being fenced in advance from success, i.e. failure in the realization of individual planned activities. The nature of this strategy is not developmental, as it could objectively be. In their strategy, everything is uncertain and under a great deal of question, so that's where the question arises - why is it even being brought? Defence, when it comes to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, wants to prevent the development of a company such as EPS, from becoming a profitable company, in which it could be realised in recent times that it must be privatised in full or in part, which we are increasingly witnesses. Any privatisation in the EPS at this time is unacceptable, until the company is fully formed on a healthy economic basis, as a profitable organisation. In a series of objections, there is a lack or mention of any literature and resources used in the creation of a strategy, which can only be evidence of volunteerism, improvisation, non-professionalism in its making, because if we swear to all our mouths in connection with European integration and directives, we should at least express our sincere position in the form in which the European Union's documents, standards it owns, are in place. The strategy has not answered any strategic issues - which state interests and how they should be protected, as well as how these apply to individual subsectors, such as: gas, electricity and oil. How to increase competitiveness and open the market, in order to benefit electricity consumers without questioning the country's responsibility for the functioning of the system and security of supply. How to implement all changes in the dynamics and concept of energy development, which will inevitably be conditioned by European Union directives. According to Security Council Resolution 1244, Kosovo is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and according to this energy capacity management is entrusted to UNMIK. The draft strategy discusses Kosovo and Metohija's status beyond the energy policy elements by 2015, as well as Serbia in general. If the global political goal is to join the European Union, then in the field of energy, the political goal is to enable the use of coal resources in Kosovo and Metohija. This energy-political influence must not be forgotten at any time, so it cannot be treated separately, and there are reasons for anxiety, given the inadmissible passivity of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the restoring ministry over the problem of supplying electricity to Serb parts of Kosovo. A two-month late reaction does not give us much optimism that complex energy problems will be solved most in Serbia's interest. It is also not true, as the strategy stresses, that there is no adequate data for the electricity facilities for Kosovo and Metohija, so the strategy is reportedly working without Kosovo and Metohija in fact. It is simply impossible for the EPS to have no data on thermal and hydro potentials, then on power lines located in Kosovo and Metohija. Such an unprincipled and unmistakable impression of Serbia's most pressing problems today is certainly unacceptable, and the consequences can be far-reaching. Regarding the restructuring of public enterprises, we can say that the great space is dedicated, above all, to convincing the provisions of the Energy Act. Thus, with regard to the restructuring of public enterprises, key issues are not being answered in addition to this. What is the government's strategy on privatising these public enterprises, what is the dynamics of the transformation of state capital, in which energy activities first invest private capital, and in what way? How does the government see Serbia's Elektroprivreda and the oil industry in two years? Finally, the new development-investment cycle strategy lists an 11 billion-dollar effect, but without any calculations or more serious analysis, which is not enough for one serious analysis. It is embarrassing to mention the strategic partnership, and it does not say with anyone in any sector, in which way, in which time limits, in which percentage of the estimated value of the capital of the underlying assets is still in place. Something has been done about the restructuring of the EPS, which we can see in this first part of the joint debate, and what about the oil industry of Serbia? When will the current ministry propose modern organisations and restructuring of oil and gas industries? When the same ministry will prevent such affairs as imports of Syrian oil, low-quality oil, for which the processing needed to add another 30% of the oil from the lagers, so that it could be processed and exploited at all. That affair cost our citizens about $1.3 million. Let's remind ourselves that Finance Minister Mr Dinkic has in his time torn down the then government with the Kolesar affair by three times less amounts, about 400,000 euros. Mr. Minister, even though you were warned, you supported a false NIS management report and also pressured the NIS Management Board not to discuss this affair. There's also a stenogram about it. All of this has been fully informed and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Labus, as well as the president, Mr Vojislav Kostunica. Nothing has been done about it. The request of the Novi Sad district prosecutor sent to UBPOK to collect the necessary information on Syrian oil imports, despite numerous prosecutors' emergencyes, has been in the drawer for more than four months. Who is this being protected by the police minister and the UBPOK? Whose interest it is to allow such abuses, ignorance and inert management of NIS, as well as other members of the government, who are familiar with such abuses, ignorance and inertness, to go into restructuring and any privatisation and the smallest part of NIS. Also, has the government resolved Zeljko Popovic for the same reasons, v.d. Director-General of NIS, Decision No 119/1714/2005. The year of March 24th, then by the same number, provides a solution to the renaming of the same man to the same place in the same status. This violates the provisions of Article 14(3) of the Government. The Law on Public Enterprises, which reads: "The Founder may until the appointment of the Director of a Public Enterprise to appoint a V.D. Director." Namely, the founder of the public enterprise of NIS is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the appointment of V.D. The Director-General is not in charge of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but in the jurisdiction of this House. Given that under Article 14 paragraph 5 of the same Act V.D. The status of director may only take one year and that the previous V.D. Zeljko Popovic's status expired late last month, the government's intention and desire to keep him at the post of Director General of NIS. In doing so, at all costs, he wants to avoid his appointment in this home in a public debate, where the reasons for and against his appointment would be held responsible. There's a lot of them. It also raises the question whether this is the way of setting up the company's work and development in the efficient and long term. This is the government's strategy for managing one of the most important energy entities. Her relationship with abuses, her relationship and the sighting of the rule of law, the legalism of the government, which boasts that the government is without an affair. Furthermore, the strategy shows no problem with our country's high dependence on oil and gas imports and one billion-dollar foreign exchange expenditure. No way of reducing import costs is defined, nor is NIS training for the realisation of foreign exchange inflows to cover part of imports. The strategy also does not show an analysis of the capacity, the structure of the refinery's oil processing, as well as the structure of the consumption of oil derivatives that have a decisive impact on the country's energy and foreign exchange balance. Only one sentence states that the technological modernisation of refineries is needed, which is otherwise a well-known thing, but whether there are economic reasons and a market justification for the independent work of the two refineries in Serbia, and on which principles their survival is possible, there is not a single word, and we have a strike in Panchev. According to the strategy, significant investment investments in all sectors of consumption are needed to achieve the objectives of the R & D programme and increase energy efficiency in the energy consumption sectors, which is in line with the population standard. The document does not state that the final objective will be to reduce final energy consumption and the size of investments, as well as the payment deadline on the basis of energy savings achieved. The strategy does not contain a range of low investment measures of energy efficiency, their value and the craft period of the funds invested as an alternative. The presentation of unsatisfactory programmes and plans is equivalent to their absence. In the event of Serbia's dynamic economic development, 550,000 consumers are also expected to join the natural gas or district heating distribution system. The strategy is not concerned with the issue of its real feasibility, and should, as investments at the level of the household are about $2,900. Also, industrial consumers would have to finance the connection, so many question the eligibility of investment in the introduction of gas, as the state does not provide any guarantees. No review of possible incentive and organisational measures is given to lead to the realization of the proposal. Although the strategy is based for the period until 2015, it is not considered, for example, a possible rise in natural gas prices, although it is an import energy of 100%, and it is fully recommended that electricity substitution be made by this energy resource. Instead of including, as an alternative, available domestic potential from alternative sources, parallel to gas, and, above all, from renewable sources, for which today and building funds are significantly easier approved by global investment funds. What about power plants in about 30 companies that allow the tight production of heat and electricity, the capacity of about 250 megawatts, of which the largest number is in a very bad, non-operational state. The failure could certainly call the lack of reference to the opportunities of domestic equipment and devices manufacturers, as the strategy of technological and industrial development should respond to the challenge that comes from the need for energy development, both in classical and in new technologies. It is also unimaginable to observe the development of an energy system without international co-operation, within economic and European programmes aimed at achieving energy efficiency, introducing clean technologies and increasing the use of renewable resources. For future development of the energy sector, the importance of direct bilateral, scientific and technical contacts as well as the launch of joint projects is special. There's nothing about this in the strategy. Given that the time is near, I will continue my second part in this individual announcement, but I will say that for these and the reasons that will be presented in the subsequent discussion, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club will not support this proposal until 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14070	Is there another president or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, DS, G17, SRS and DSS. The first has the word of MP Milisav Petronijevic, and let MP Dragoljub Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14071	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as well as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Mr. Dragan S. Jovanovic, who presented our parliamentary group's position on the proposed documents, will stick to Serbia's Energy Development Strategy by 2015. In order not to repeat what the already authorised representative of our group has said, I want to proceed to where he ended up. I would like to remind you that we are looking at the Energy Development Strategy through our policy and our programme, policy and SPS programme. He's clear on this, and we're up for three things. First, to provide development policy with conditions for energy potentials to produce sufficient electricity for the purposes of economy and citizens, and in certain situations to enable exports, therefore, to invest in production. Secondly, to implement an energy restructuring programme, with respect for social programmes and collective agreements for employees, and in this respect we support the efforts of the EPS workers' union. And one more thing, we know that restructuring is necessary, necessary, but we also want to warn that it should not be done the way it started in JAT, NIS, etc. Third, that energy companies must remain state-owned and that the government therefore resists the obvious efforts to bring these powerful companies into an unexplainable situation and as such sold out at the market. I would like to remind you that the continuity of our efforts has been in this area since last year, when the Energy Act was considered. Our proposals at the time were to treat coal production specifically in the law as energy activity, secondly, to determine that energy is a majority state-owned, thirdly, that the law specifies that the principles of restructuring, entrusted to the Government, will be carried out in a vertical structure, with the preservation of activity. Even then, we have advocated that the law finds a place of organisation according to these principles, and then it is not accepted and we have received assurances that the Ministry, or the Government, will take care of it, and we expect them to take care of this way of organising the EPS. The next thing I want to warn you, given that Belgrade is not only the biggest consumer, but also the largest electricity producer, I want to ask a few questions to the Minister and Government on this. First, given that the Strategy covers one place and says that the energy economy in Serbia is making up, not counting everything, coal mines. Of course, the Colubary Basen with 14% of the coal reserves is, after Kosovo, the largest base, and that is the Belgrade area, and we are interested in that issue. Given that the development strategy is designed to expand the Western field, the Tamnava field, then introduce a new surface copy "C", connecting with a "B" and opening a new surface copy, this is foreseen by the Development Strategy, and that is a priority. We consider it logical and normal, but we want to ask one question, which we warn the government to take care of, and that's the question: what happens to the population that is in that space, which is to be displaced, and what remains in those spaces. I'll get back to that question later. The second question, electricity; since it is unclear in the Strategy, it is the conclusion of the Colubar "B" thermal power plant, the strategy says that it continues to build, even says or new, is it clear what is happening to the "B" thermal power plant in Kalenić, and we heard that it has already been built 40%. We believe that this should be a priority in line with our efforts and focus attention on greater development of production. Another question from Belgrade's point of view interests me, as it enters the energy economy, which is industrial energy. Since in one place the Strategy speaks of this, however very briefly, that these are the sources used to produce technology steam and heat for the needs of manufacturing processes and work space, what is happening, does the Ministry, Government, have a strategy to make this thermal energy even more rational? We know it was given to local self-government, but if the state determines the strategy, it has to commit it. Let's take an example of the Obrenovac Termo Power Plant. Currently, the hot water warms up Sava. There were projects of the Obrenovac-Belgrade thermal line. About 20m to 30m euros were invested. The new government in Belgrade has stopped it, and while one of the previous ones has opened it, this government is burying these channels, the sales pipes, etc. What's the Ministry's position? We know of the examples of Prague, which also heats up in a similar way; the Russian track, which has as much as 60 kilometers of that hotline. Can this warm water warm Belgrade too? The next question, we think that the development of energy involves not only producing more coal, more electricity, but much more concern for the population, which I just said, which lived in areas where coal surfaces were being torn down, as well as the population left to live in impossible conditions in the environment of large surface coals and thermoelectric power plants. I will give an example of the Lazarec municipality, Obrenovac, and in part Lajkovac and Ub, huge spaces are taken up by that population, a fertile country, because at the site there are significant energy potentials, where large surface carbon-exploitation spears have developed, one powerful energy system "Nikola Tesla" A and B and Velika Crljeni. When it comes to that, two questions again. The first question is, what happens to the population who lived in those areas? I want to ask directly about the Vreoci settlement. The heaths are surrounded by spears of surface, a dryer for the processing of coal, fecal waters, all possible pollutants. There's only one island left. Is it possible to develop energy only by looking at one side and leaving that population to live in extremely difficult conditions? We're asking that the Warblers as a settlement be completely taken care of, not just the parts that are attached to the surface nettles. When it comes to the population left to live in impossible conditions, I will take just a few examples. I was just talking about large surface spears in the "Nikola Tesla" thermal system A and B and Big Black. They have become a significant factor in environmental degradation. Large amounts of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater that pollute air, land, poison water are excreted daily. The fertile land is taken, and then the one that remains is poisoned. The water is poisoned or surface spears are dragged away. Finally, the air is poisoned because by burning coal in Obrenovac and the Great Blacks, huge amounts of ash are created, which partly comes out through the chimney, while the remaining amounts are delayed to the dumps, and the dumps are not treated in the best way, so that in an unfavourable direction the wind is always in the area for some unfavourable wind direction, the whole area is filled with large amounts of ash containing heavy metals. I had a chance on Sunday to pass by Junkovci, Falcon, Big Black, Step-Eve. It was Dan, and the lights in the car couldn't help to get through a huge cloud that was overrun at that end. The state has to protect these people and it has to be an integral part of the development of energy. It must provide a healthy country, healthy drinking water to that population and healthy air. So these are all our examples, our views, as we look at the energy development strategy, for which questions we are looking for answers and, of course, we will finally give our court a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14072	The People's Messenger Dragoljub Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milka Silaev be prepared. At the same time, I convey the announcement that the 10th session of the Trade and Tourism Committee, scheduled for Tuesday 22 March starting at 10.00 hours, will be held on Thursday 14 April 2005 with the beginning at 10.00 hours, in the fifth floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14073	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015 is a planned document for the adoption of the Energy Act, which the National Assembly adopted last July. The Energy Act provides for a strategy for energy development to define the long-term objectives of the development of certain energy activities, development priorities, sources and means of providing the necessary amounts of energy, i.e. energy, incentive measures for financial investment in energy facilities to use renewable energy sources, incentive measures to increase energy efficiency, conditions, ways and measures to ensure the protection of the environment and other necessary elements for achieving the energy policy objectives, which, as we know, are defined in point 4 of the said Energy Act. At the very beginning, I would like to highlight the importance of adopting such a document, given that energy promotes overall economic development. The proposed document should essentially pave the way for ensuring that from the current state of the energy system, made up of energy generation sectors and energy and energy consumption sectors by 2015, a qualitative new state in which this system could achieve the required energy policy objectives. At the same time, the strategy must be based on a projected real economic development from which real needs will arise in the energy sector. When drawing up the strategy, the authors had two extremely large restrictions. First, it is the lack of a strategy for economic and industrial development of the Republic of Serbia and, secondly, it is not knowing the status of energy resources, primarily coal, but also installed capacities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. After reading the strategy, two are basic questions that can be asked. First, whether the proposed document complies with the requirements of the defined Article 5. The Energy Act? Secondly, would the realisation of such a defined strategy create conditions for economic development in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? The most important remarks that could be put on the proposed energy development strategy by 2015 are that the text is very general, too much space is devoted to the description of the existing state of energy and the analysis of the provisions of the Energy Act. I must admit that this part of the strategy is simply brilliantly done, but there is room for a lot of criticism because we don't see this development projection as we expected. The largest number of concrete responses needed to give the strategy and adopt the National Assembly are left for later programmes and documents to be delivered by the Government. The fourth observation is that the proposed text did not fully respond to the requirements contained in point 5 of the Energy Act, where it was defined what the energy development strategy must contain. Finally, the strategy says nothing about the participation of domestic machinery in the construction of planned energy facilities. One of the biggest shortcomings is that the proposed strategy does not define incentive measures for financial investment in energy facilities where renewable energy sources will be used. This means that the provisions of the Energy Act, concerning the status of privileged producers of heat and electricity, cannot be used to improve the quality of the energy system. Otherwise, of course, the idea of the Energy Act was to ensure that such instruments were made more effective and efficient, that it was modernised, but the lack of incentive measures of a good idea contained in the Energy Act would not be used or we would get these measures later by a government decision, but without adoption in the National Assembly, which is also a problem. Also, no incentive measures have been defined to increase energy efficiency, which can be put on the soul of the Energy Efficiency Agency, because it is based on Article 147. The Energy Act required this agency to do so during the process of preparing the energy development strategy. I have to admit, it turns out that the document proposed by the government to adopt the Assembly is actually a proposal from the Ministry of Energy, not the Government, because, in my view, it's pretty obvious that in the creation of this document, other than the Ministry of Energy, other ministries did not participate, which is not good, because I suppose that in order to define the incentive measures for financial investment in electricity facilities, which use renewable energy sources and in buildings where energy efficiency is increasing, the Ministry of Finance should have taken part. Thus, this leaves the government with the possibility of defining these measures through a strategy programme, but without a decision from the National Assembly on what was provided for by the Energy Act. The objection may also be made to the organisation of a public hearing. The proposal for a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015 was exposed to public debates in public enterprises EPS and NIS and at the joint session of the Serbian-Vojvodine Chamber of Commerce, and the public presentation was held at a professional meeting of Serbian-Electrane energyists in 2004. It can be noted that regional chambers and municipalities did not participate in the public debate. This could mean that the interests of individual regions and municipalities are not sufficiently taken into account, which is why the proposed strategy, in our opinion, does not provide conditions for balanced economic development and increasing the competitive capacity of economic operators in regions with insufficient energy infrastructure. As an example, I present the problem of gasification of southern Serbia, outlined at a meeting of the Council for the Economic Development of South Serbia in Leskovac, attended by Mr Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy. I thank him publicly for taking the time and attending the meeting. The Council for the Economic Development of the South of Serbia, the regional Chamber of Commerce of Jablanic and Pcinjska County, in the extended composition, at the first session held on 26 February 2005, in which Mr. Milutin Zastanovic and the technical director of "Yugoros-gas" Belgrade, Mr. Slobodan Ćirić, took part, as well as his associates, Director General of NIS-Energogas, Mr. Milutin Zastanovic, and the technical director of "Yugoros-gas" Belgrade, Mr. Slobodan Ćirić, discussed the issue of gasification of southern Serbia and, at the same time, concluded: first, that the South of Serbia currently lacks enough energy and that this is one of the most serious limiting factors of its economic development in the coming period; second, that in this part of the present lack of energy, due to the present lack of energy, the uncontrol of the wood has already occurred, as well as the lack of energy use of electricity and energy, the need to the need of energy, the need to improve, the need of energy, the energy, the energy, the energy, the energy of energy, energy, energy, the energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy efficiency, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy Based on the discussion and the above findings, the Council for the Economic Development of the South of Serbia, the regional Chamber of Commerce and the Pcinj County, has reached the following conclusion: the creation of the possibility of using natural gas, as a comparatively economic energy energy, is of great importance for the further development of this part of the Republic of Serbia, and for these reasons the businessmen and the population of the Jablanic and Pcinj district support the proposal of the Minister of Mining and Energy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Ministry of Mining and Energy, create conditions for Serbia, as one of the priorities, to include the construction of the master gas pipeline Nis - Leskovac - Vranje, as part of the realisation of the South Serbian gasification project. This time, we expect Mr. Minister to confirm these allegations and agree that the gasification of southern Serbia, namely that this Niš - Leskovac - Vranje gas pipeline should enter as one of the priorities. We are aware that the construction of an underground warehouse in the Banatski Dvori and the Master's gas pipeline Dubnica - Dimitrovgrad - Pirot - Nis should be priorities, as it concerns efficient and reliable functioning of the system. But we expect that the construction of the Niš - Leskovac gas pipeline - Vranje is not delayed for the period after the construction of these two important buildings, but that its construction should be accessed at the same time as the Dubnica - Nis pipeline. In the end, I want to highlight a few good solutions, in my opinion, in the draft strategy. These are proposals for forming a energy council tasked with monitoring and managing energy reforms and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy. Also commendable is the proposal, outlined in the strategy, to establish an energy institute that, in our opinion, is missing Serbia. It's also a good idea that we support, but this time we ask whether there is coordination between the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. Thirdly, it is also worth the praise and insistence to establish a new modern technical regulation, regulations and standards for energy technology, where, unfortunately, compared to Europe, we are quite late. Here I want to point out the serious financial problems that the Federal Standardisation Office has. It is not possible to carry out the serious business in front of this institution without more serious financial support to finance projects to establish a new technical regulation. So, I will conclude, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club cannot vote in favour of the proposed strategy, since, in our opinion, it contains in itself the shortcomings which are the problem and therefore the document should be returned to the government for further work. In the end, as regards the proposed composition of the Energy Agency Council, the Energy Agency is a regulatory body, as we have already heard in the discussion of predecessors, which have almost all countries of Europe and also countries in the environment. Albania also has a regulatory body and an agency. The Council of the Energy Agency is an extremely important body. We object to the proposed composition. Of the five candidates proposed, four are from the EPS. There's no man professionally involved in oil and gas. Furthermore, it deserves a comment proposed on the list by the fifth candidate who met the pension conditions -- in 1940, it is a woman. I think you should go with younger people. So the DS can't even vote for a proposal for a candidate for the Energy Agency Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14074	The word of the messenger of the people, Milka Silaiev, shall be prepared, and the messenger of the people shall be Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14075	The Honorable Presidency, dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, long or little earlier tests have been carried out -- the resources of the country of Serbia and it has been said that Serbia has a position, has a country and people. As for energy, not only do we have the illusion that we're rich, saving is what absolutely needs to be potentiated, the state must have a savings program. Not every product with 30% of the price should have energy. For European countries, it is far less, orientative 10%. Therefore, a major reorganisation of the system and the psychological approach of our people is necessary to save energy. I would now move on to a strategy that also results from the reorganisation of the system, and the creation of the Agency and the adoption of laws on the termination of the previous law. The position of Serbia's public energy and mining sector is one of the more difficult points of the next phase of economic reforms in Serbia. Further development of the sustainable economic sector must be sought in decentralisation, demonopolisation and rationalisation measures, based on European competitiveness and restructuring, which is based on all international and European laws, according to reformers in Serbia. The economic source of financing and functioning of energy after democratic changes in 2000, normally, has been affected by donations and some loans, but they have already dried up. The company faces an obligation to train and raise energy sources to a higher technological level and to make organisational advances on an independent basis, in line with the principles of the regional, Balkan, European market, and in the interests of citizens and society as a whole. The restructuring of the energy sector is an integral part of economic reforms, and in all transition countries it is a preparation for market independence and privatisation of the part of the energy sector, with a view to greater efficiency and market transformation of the system. So far, all governments, especially after democratic changes, have stressed the change, economic transformation and restructuring of this sector, but none have been prepared to bite that sour apple. Political demagogy and populism have distanced us more and more from the main problems of energy reform, compared to political crises and pre-election campaigns. But that should be the end of it. A necessary condition for the reform of the energy sector is the financial support of the international community. The changes ahead in energy reform will be painful, and they have been around the world. An example of this is the English neoliberal approach, with the emergency mine shut down, made by Mrs. Thatcher. Our approach should be a gradual and gradual separation of secondary actions, then decomposition of large systems, such as EPS and NIS. This reduces the cost of business and the number of employees normally, in collaboration with trade unions that should support reform, so that there is an expression of co-operation, partnership, and not confrontation. Globalisation of the market, decentralisation and privatisation of the energy sector are at work in the world. The process should begin with us, and there is a national strategy on the long-term development of the Republic of Serbia's energy. Energy must not enter privatisation as a mere object of trade in the most powerful international lobbies or multinational companies, with the aim of buying the market, and at the expense of employees of Serbian citizens, as well as society as a whole. Respecting the current and possible economic circumstances in the country and in the environment, a document on the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy strategy by 2015 defines documents to identify the development strategy, so the following economic and energy priorities are proposed to coordinate the work of Serbia's energy sectors. And this requires continuity, in which measures and activities for significant improvement should exist, both technological and operational performances and existing energy sources through detailed remonts, modernisation and revitalisation of thermal power plants, hydropower plants, coal mines and the system of transmission and distribution of refinery, urban heat, industrial power plants. Rational use of energy and increasing energy efficiency is necessary. The measures and activities provided for for significant electricity substitution, for the satisfaction of thermal energy services in the household and public commercial activities sectors, then for reducing their own consumption in production and losses in the distribution of electricity and heat energy, and for increasing the efficiency of energy use. Selective use of new and renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technology of devices, which provides for measures and activities for more intensive use of biomass and the exploitation of remaining hydropower potential, especially for small hydropower plants. There were a lot of initiatives in the country to create high-end power plants on rivers, but the state did not allow that, which was a shame, and it must now be used again. At the same time as organising, researching and using geothermal sources, there are many examples in Serbia where hot water is not used, and that is sad, so we will have to save more and use it, as well as organise mass use of solar energy for decentralised heat production. Further, rational use of quality energy, increasing efficiency in the production, transport and distribution of electricity, and in particular heat energy, where our losses are large, especially heat energy in the areas of heat energy services in the sectors of industry, household and public and commercial activities. Diversification of the source and direction of oil supply, natural gas, intensification of oil and gas research in the country and abroad is necessary, and for this our companies have great experience in this direction and should continue to intensify, in line with the economic opportunities of the energy economy and economically justified imports of quality energy. Next, the gradual introduction of technologically reliable, energy-efficient and economically efficient and environmentally-acceptable technologies, including increased use of renewable resources and natural gas technologies for tight electricity and heat production. Selective use of new renewable energy sources, with the aim of slowing down the growth rate of energy imports, reducing the negative impact on the environment, and what the previous speakers were talking about. Also, the creation of one additional activity for the domestic industry and the employment of the local population, including the adaptation of practice and EU regulation in this area. Structural reorganisation of vertically organised and integrated public energy companies and the creation of a market business environment for energy operators, with energy prices regulated for normal natural monopolies, which respect legitimate production costs and enable investment in development and the creation of a fund to protect the poorest group of citizens. Encouraging scientific and research work, targeted education and human development, designing technological and development programmes for the needs of energy economy, including domestic machinery and electrical construction, as well as the need to perform specialised hydroenergy activities of services. The basic mechanisms of State impact on market business and increasing the financial stability of energy subjects and exploiting the development potential of energy economy to achieve sustainable socio-economic development should be implemented through: the establishment of a rational market environment, the harmonisation of tariff and price, tax, customs and anti-monopol regulatory, as well as measures for structural reorganisation of energy enterprises and more effective control and management of social assets in the energy economy; the establishment of new - modern technical regulations, regulations and standards for energy and technological activities and the establishment of specific instruments for stimulating activities for rational use and more efficient use of energy, including the formation of bodies for monitoring and management of reforms in energy and the implementation of energy development strategy. Following an agreement on Serbia's accession to the entire territory of its energy community of Southeast European countries, whose establishment is expected in 2005 and which it is intensively working on, even one delegation from here, and I was in that delegation, was in Bucharest for a little training of Southeast European MEPs on the importance of forming such a community. Further, establishing the basis for the ratification of Kyoto Protocol and our obligations arising from its implementation in our regulation and practice, including institutional organisation for our participation in the use of the reliefs that make it possible to apply Kyoto Protocol. Promoting and supporting strategic initiatives in the domain of investments in new energy sources, i.e. technologies and energy-efficient devices and energy-use equipment. Measures of financial incentives for private investment in economic-efficient energy efficiency programmes and selective use of new renewable energy sources, including measures to establish a national fund for those projects. The implementation of the social protection policy of the poorest category of population must be a commitment of this country and the entire system. It's normal to take care of that. Full implementation of the relevant reforms in Serbia's energy sector imposes a commitment on the ministry and relevant government ministries to establish, in addition to those measures, an appropriate programme instrument, and above all: a programme for rational use of energy and energy efficiency; a programme for the use of new and renewable energy sources, a programme for environmental protection and a programme for scientific and technological development in Serbia's energy performance, including the energy statistics system. Our statistics are a terrible pain in the ass, the whole country. No relevant document is available unless we have good statistics, and Serbia is known for it. Something must change in that process. Statistics must be good and run correctly, because statistics make trends, and trends make plans. This programme for environmental protection and the scientific and technological development programme in energy activities must be part of Serbia's coordination programme with the EUROSTAT system. So, in line with socio-economic reforms in Serbia and the positive effects of Serbia's energy sector reform, it is expected to create a favourable environment for consistent implementation of those priorities, including two additional priorities. These are an emergency priority, within which measures for the emergency construction of a new energy source are justified, with a gas and steam cycle for the tight production of electricity and heat, in order to support the energy sector scenario of intensifying production and service activities and activities, because Serbia's perspective is in services; not in large production, but in services. This would increase the growth of citizens' standards and thus create preconditions for achieving the country's prosperous economic development and our accession to the European Union. For this economic development scenario, priorities of capital investment in electricity and heat production facilities, partly new and alternative sources are envisaged, then investment in gas, oil and coal sectors, new transport routes and supply sources, in the development of a distribution network and increasing the number of individual gas consumers. This priority provides for investments in the construction of a small number of medium-sized city heats, urban waste, or city heat, which gravitate coal mines with underground exploitation, including investments in new lignite-based thermal power plants. In such conditions of economic prosperity, apart from its own investment by domestic financially reinforced energy entities, private and foreign and mixed investments in those facilities are expected. So, the development strategy by 2015 is a vision of our energy path. It provides for a qualitatively new state for energy operations over the next ten and over years, while at the same time developing energy entities. A new legislative, institutional, structural and economic business framework has also been envisaged. Nothing less significant is the vision of including our energy in regional and pan-European integration. The basic premises of this document were carried out on the basis of an assessment of Serbia's economic and economic development trends by the planned period of 2015. I point out that they took exact indicators, which respected our current economic opportunities and trends in the economic development of the country. Respecting the reality, especially the technological state of the entire country's energy system, the strategy looks at the coherent development of the production system with the energy needs of the consumer sector, with the maximum costs our society needs to pay in order to have a normal supply of energy. In addition, the strategy envisions the reorganisation of vertically integrated public energy companies and the creation of an environment for their market business. It also reflects energy prices, which are regulated by respecting legitimate costs of production, enable investment in development, but also the creation of a fund to protect the poorest group of citizens. The restructuring of major energy systems is a priority in further implementing structural changes in Serbia's economy and state. The process should be conducted in front of the public, and in accordance with acceptable principles, both for the government and for the professional management of the company and for the trade unions. Only such a tripartite contractual concept of restructuring can be sustainable and give appropriate development results. The G17 will support the strategy, as well as the previous two laws, and I hope that the purpose and goal and strategy and these two laws are understood, that this is necessary for Serbia, that the need to regulate the area in this area of the Balkans is in line with all other Balkan countries, and normally this is a form of accession to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14076	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic, and let Radmilo Milosevic - Baja be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14077	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, as the largest opposition, and not only the opposition, but the largest party in Serbia at all, will not vote for a set of proposed laws. I know it doesn't bother you. Most of you are worried about being given less sugar here with coffee or a little more, so it doesn't suit you very much, and the fact that voters are turning their backs on you every day, I know you're not interested in it. We are in Serbia today in a rather strange situation, trying to impose some new dogmas, as we have at times had communism and Yugoslavism, so today in every other sentence, whoever addresses, any minister, any MPs who support the government, so to what we watch every night of half-eight on the daily of TV Serbia, you can hear the same thing, and that's -- here, just a little bit, we're entering Europe. And the fact that the people don't have bread to eat, that people live harder and harder -- that doesn't interest anyone. But they introduced a new dogma, and if someone says anything against it, they should burn it at the stake. So if you've noticed in the last month, those who have been watching the daily TV Serbia carefully at the beginning of the diary wonder if we are somewhere with Switzerland, and at the end of the diary realize that we have long gone beyond Switzerland, so they just don't know who to be the pandan of the globe, because we live so well, we have such good government and so good government that we don't even know why anyone is rebelling or what the opposition is going to be. Well, yes, I say, it's best not to, as Solana has told you well -- don't let radicals beat you so easily and without trouble, so now you can write in this constitution what you've been writing for a year or two, so three or four more, as long as it takes for you to write -- to rule for life, you don't have to worry, the opposition doesn't need. Right? Just like Comrade Tito did. I know that you are the most pleased and this kind of enthusiasm with the MPs of power could not have caused anything but hope that they could stay in their chairs for life. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS believe that here, and when it comes to energy in due time, and when it comes to technical laws today, or those who announce the strategic struggle of the Serbian state for different relations and for a more favourable position within the energy sphere, the key problem is not mentioned. We're going to talk about him today. Not to say so - we don't understand ourselves or anyone else understands us, and then we're much more professional and important, but we're going to speak in folk language to those who Serbia's citizens understand well, about what they accept and understand as the biggest problem today in our country. The biggest problem in the field of energy, in the field of the ministry covered by Mr. Naumov, is corruption and crime. Corruption and crime today rule this society, rule this country. Corruption and crime rule today in the energy sphere. Corruption, crime and the mafia rule in telecommunications. Corruption and crime rule in the financial sphere. Corruption and crime, unfortunately, rule in the sphere of culture. Corruption and crime rule in the field of sports, corruption, crime and the mafia rule in all areas of social life. It is a fundamental thing that Serbian citizens want to fight, to ensure their children and themselves an incomparably better future. Here is the question, I wanted to ask Mr. President of the National Assembly, I suppose, that he has not finished with coffee and cigarettes in front of you, but I am also asking you people's MPs in the National Assembly: why, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have we never considered the report on the work of the polling committee that we have formed to determine the factual situation in relation to, some would say to the alleged, we would say to the actual, malversions in the Elektroprivred, NIS, anyway, in the field of energy and financial-banking affairs related to, first of all, the trade in the electrical sphere? Why didn't that report ever come to the assembly session? You want to know why? Because we came to the report by revote, because the MPs and those who support them, the three of them, and one of the authorities didn't want to agree with their report that there was nothing, and maybe there was, and even if it wasn't a big deal, but it'll be someone else's fortification, so we'll rent independent Odator houses, so they'll say somewhere, and maybe they won't, and all in all, they'll be "eat a donkey wolf." It was voted by most of us, and we don't mind. Another representative of the opposition party and I, as representative of the largest party in this House, were reputed. We were overvoted and half-crossed, because we were told that we were informed by the sixth member of the New Serbia commission, who carried out the task like all of us, could not come to that session, and we were not told that because of the death Luke, a man could not come to the session. Isn't that right, Mr. Michaelovich? We were told that he couldn't come because of the death case, but we only learned that two days later, and someone needed to adopt a report like this, so that no one could ever say that there was any thieving, any crime. Since there's another dogma here that we listen to every time, after democratic changes in 2000, and after democratic changes in 2000, I don't understand what that means, but I know that the citizens know that they were thieves, and now every time you say something like that, I'm going to say, after the 2000 thiefic changes, we've had the following things. So, according to the thief's changes, thieves took key positions in the state government and went into charge with what belonged to society and the state. They began to deal with what Serbian citizens had built, what they had built, what they had done decades before. They're going into general kidnapping, I'd say, in a hidden way, well organized, the way the mafia does, really expertly. It's about people who are very educated, who are not understated, people who are masters of their thieving craft and who have done it in a way that is very difficult for you to find guilty. Only a few cases, in which it is clear for every layman, are how much the state of Serbia has been robbed. When I say several cases, these cases are worth several million dollars, that you don't think it's a 10 dinar robbery or 10 euros, or 100,000 dinars. No, it's a few dozen million-dollar robbery, which is easy to prove, and we expect the prosecutor to react, because they know that the mafia is in co-habitation today with all the sights and levels of power, and then the prosecutors keep it in the drawer, so they're waiting for something to end, so when there's a change of government or when the radicals come to power, they're going to pull it out of the drawer to get to the new authorities, to show -- well, now we're going to chase the thieves, because by yesterday we didn't want to go after the thieves. I'll read you only part of the report that couldn't become an integral part of the report, because I know it'll never come to the agenda. It would be good for the citizens to hear what it's about, and then I'll pay some attention and show you some new documentation that you've never heard of before, which you haven't seen before, so after that, Mr. Minister, let me know how it's possible for such a thief to be buried under a cloak and under the cover of the current government without anyone responding. We can start talking about it right now. Namely, I have here a report from NIS. We won't reveal the source, but with the exact numbers of invoices and individual invoices. Namely, the government of the Republic of Serbia allowed seven million dinars to be spent on advertising, advertising in 2004. Do you know how much has been spent? 57,513,727 dinars and 89 pairs were spent. That's right. Now, my dear friends, what is this money spent on and what is it like? It's a public company, it's state property. The State is responsible for functioning and behaviour, in accordance with the law and in line with the interests of citizens. Now you're going to see where and how they launder money, because you're going to have to explain to me which video, and it's not an art film, costs 1,641,000 dinars. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, we all participate in campaigns, we all have better and more expensive videos, some better times have come, as you say, so no one has ever paid more than 300,000 sets of videos in dinars, not one video of 1,641,000 dinars. Here, for example, the "World of Oil" show, I don't even know what the show is, to be honest, I guess it's going on national television, maybe it's going somewhere else. Says the number of invoices 44130 DU-676 since 10 March 1,824,750 dinars; 4414 DU-633 since 16 January 2004. 1,307,100 dinars. Listen now. For March 3, 2004, they have two invoices. That's 44123 DU-641 and 11124 DU-642. One on 1,741.080 dinars and the other on 1,611.000 dinars. Three hundred and forty thousand dinars for one show. Hey, guys, what's this about? It's for every week as much as you want and every time some of them are different and weird amounts to 0.89 pairs. As they calculated it, no one living knows it, no one can dream it. It's about NIS. Then we'll talk about how we got to NIS and who this government is setting up for V.D. Director General, one of the best men. You'll hear who. The godmother of the Vojin Lazarevic mafia. Now, what do they say? The pano design costs 312 thousand dinars. Someone drew what a 312 thousand pan looked like. Says the TV video, here it is, July 20, 2004 - 1,305,000 dinars. Is that worth it, Mr. Minister? Not the people seem to be going to the pumps, but they're going to pour in the juice shops, so that's why it takes so much advertising and so much to cost the videos. So it's over 50 million. Now we're coming up on something that's interesting. There are expenses that were not planned at all for 2004; Mr. Minister, I will deliver everything to you to check. Unplanned expenses, says like this, Olympic games -- wrestling, three million. Sponsorship and donation, but unpredicted, I'm not talking about the ones you're supposed to be talking about, I'm talking about what's beyond the amount of money, I'm telling you unforeseeable. He says, car racing million, 18.05.2004, 45/82 DU 1416. It's not funny, Mr. Minister, it's sad. He says, the concert - Sava Center, what concerts there are in Sava Center to pay for, I haven't heard of the NIS concert. Says the second concert at the Sava Center, so he says, boxing club, then cycling races, I didn't know that bikes needed oil, too. I'm gonna get to the scariest thing I'm gonna read. He goes on to say, student karate championship 1,800,000, and then some special concert, ladies and gentlemen, concert at the Sava Center, payment 29.06. In 2004, 45/239 DU 2164. A concert paid for 2,915,508 dinars. The whole hall, now we've rented it, that you're buying, and that you're eating and drinking, with all the lighting, with everything possible, so it costs 300,000 dinars, and what does it cost, Mr. Minister, 2,915.508 dinars at Sava Center, what does it cost? We're moving on, car racing, the Olympic Games - Athens. The volleyball council, European championship, basketball, sponsorship "Rodić", and now the "Vojvodina" athletic club 7,200,000. I'll say later and why, as well as why the swimming club; because one of the directors' sons swims there, by name and last name, so it's not that I invented it, I'll show you the document, it's about the director of the Naftagas traffic Boško Vučurević, his son plays there, he actually trains swimming, and that's why 1,200,000, he swims nicely. Seven million and 200,000 for the Vojvodina athletic club, and people and citizens of Serbia do not know and do not have bread to eat. What's it cost there, it's state money, is it a state interest, did you predict it or didn't you? You're not, Mr. Minister, these are your unexpected expenses. There's a ball in there, there's an Exit, I don't even know what kind of stuff. I have here and I have documentation of how and how you know about the big robbery of Syrian oil, but I'll come back to that later, it doesn't fit at this point in concept. This was my idea of what the report should look like about the work of the Survey Committee, something like that Mr. Mihailovic did, I have to be completely honest, and we were ready, of course, for different types and compromises, and many other things, the text was written in a light language, there are no big accusations, just something that seemed to us as a fact, which the National Assembly could accept and adopt at any moment. So we clearly and unequivocally established the following facts. That electricity trade in the Southeast European region, and especially in Serbia-Montenegro, is such a lucrative business that its situation is fantastic. That's why, and because of the facts, all companies that have purchase contracts must have a speech to simultaneously sell electricity. The polling committee paid particular attention to the monopoly positions related to EFT and Interface in the electricity trade, as well as the previous mapute processing, and established the following: First, the EPS held together from the beginning of 2001 to February 2004 (this is when the first one came after the thieving changes, Novakovic, and brought his friend from Santa Monica, where they held the bar together, but later) concluded jobs, some of which were undoubtedly harmful to the EPS. Since it was a high-level business, it was difficult to trace paperwork in the EPS, but the objective adverse consequences have become undeniable. At the same time, an incomprehensible reaction by the government of Serbia and then-resoring minister, Kori Udovicki, who only after remarks by the Office of the High Representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina carried out an analysis of 11 contracts, which the EPS and NIS concluded with the EFT and Interface. The so-called contract was particularly harmful. a service maputa, especially concluded in Novi Sad. The arrangement was made without any compensation, the processing of electricity was done, with the reason that it was in the interest to maintain the stability of the electricity system in neighbouring countries. Since electricity exports were in the period from 27 July 2001 to 2 September 2001, when the systems of neighbouring countries mostly had electricity surpluses and based on the agreed export price, it was clear that there was no export at all, but realistically assumed, and that was the case, the deposit of electricity, which was subsequently imported in the winter months. This also indicates the report of the foreign inspection carried out in February 2003, which concluded that no charge of exported electricity was made by that date, both those exported in 2001 and those exported during 2002. Secondly, it is quite obvious that the close personal and business relationship between EPS and NIS management, on the one hand, and the leaders of private companies EFT and Interface, on the other. The closeness and ties between the mentioned leaderships have led to a slight decrease in the attention of the CEO and the lead team of EPS, and on the lead team of EPS was one of those, where we were hit by people whom you will place as the CEO, also from the Hamovic and Lazarevic mob team. We'll talk about this later, about best man and other friendly relationships, and I'll leave it to the end. The EPS leadership, despite the ministry's recall warning, then the Kori Udovicki ministry began to warn them, concluded a buy-in contract with the EFT firm for February, though Serbia had no need for electricity imports due to the state of hydroaccumulation and coal dumps. Only the unnecessary imports cost Serbia fourm euros, only one tranche. They, of course, were all defending themselves on the Survey Committee that they couldn't accurately assess whether there would be needs or not, and it would be terrible not to, and that's why the forecasts were for February in advance, as if they couldn't get a weather forecast of what weather conditions would be during that period, so that's how we're going to solve it. Third, the particular problem is so-called. the deposit of electricity. The electricity industry almost always, even at the cost of direct damage, allowed the EFTA power storage company at the time when it corresponded to the London firm, and in order for the deposit to be allegedly justified, it was put into a cold phase of the Morava thermal power plant, as well as a spill to Bajina Basta hydropower plant or a thrust of energy at the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant, contrary to all business norms. Fourthly, there is an absolute and clear connection and interconnection between the public administration, EPS, NIS and EFT and Interface companies, with which public enterprises have concluded business. The friendly and best-ranking links are unequivocally used to make deals and maintain the monopoly position of the EFT in the electricity trade. Fifthly, at the same time, it is obvious that the head of the EFT company is intending to protect their businesses from political ties, which in the coming period may pose a major problem for the state and its public enterprises. Not by chance, Vojin Lazarevic, one of the leaders of EFT and Interface, has friends and best friends at the top of the regime's parties, DSS and G17 plus. All this would be no problem if Lazarevic did not provide his political ties with input jobs for his companies. The link is particularly visible in financial and banking affairs, the second edition of the National Savings Bank's action, which was carried out in a suspicious manner, with the apparent agreement of Lazarevic and Dinkic, as well as through a highly suspicious deposit of funds from the National Bank's foreign reserve in the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow. It's no longer suspicious, it's now clear to everyone what it is. This is particularly clear after Olivera Ilincic's testimony and abandoning the testimony of former official Vesna Trifoni, and under clear and unequivocal pressure from the current leadership of the National Bank of Serbia. Now let's say something about how this energy mob works. The energy mafia is a very serious criminal association that is harassing Serbia. They have friends everywhere. I'm waiting for someone to tell me that's not true, so I'm going to tell you from this pay phone who's the head of this mob that brings in the support envelopes at certain times for individual politicians in Serbia. If he says I'm lying, I'll tell you exactly who he's bringing, what place and how many numbers in the envelope, and who's pulling out of his pocket. It's not some big secret. However, these are very small figures that are removed from the pocket, given those that are brought into the envelopes of one of the leaders of the energy mafia. The first observed work done by them, particularly Mr Hamovic, was in the summer of 1997, although the only visible in the business was Vojin Lazarevic. There was an impression that it was just some blurry work on the EPS line - Montenegro's Elektroprivreda. It was a service processing of mules into electricity in the TTO Novi Sad, and for the purposes of the Elektroprivreda of Montenegro. It was agreed at Vojin Lazarevic's private house in 1996 with the leaders of Serbia's Elektroprivreda leadership. We are not surprised that after that, those who were in that villa were appointed in 1997 to be the general directors and deputies of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. And later, in 1998, much bigger jobs come directly with Montenegro and Republika Srpska, attempts to blackmail state leadership and all others, and by electricity price, so as not to launder as much money as possible and to make as much money as possible soon as possible. I have to skip one significant piece, because I can't really read and say everything, but let's start with what happened in Republika Srpska. So that's where the big problems are going because the team has always done its job with certain Drago Skulić, who was one of the leaders of the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska, and they are involved in all possible variations, purchase contracts, electricity depositing, trade in all possible ways, which had nothing to do with serious trade. However, after that period, there is the creation of a real strategy and entry into Serbia's market. In this moment, it begins installing Mr. Novakovic as Minister of Energy and Mining in the government. That was the first job. It was routinely finished, no big problems, representing him, of course, as a great expert, a great expert, who had a coffee shop with them in Santa Monica, at Los Angeles or wherever. The deputy minister is appointed Dimitria Vukcevic, with a clear and starting-up strategy to control the EPS first, then NIS. You will see later that Dimitria Vukcevic is becoming exactly one of the key people in this other system. Of course, a farce has been carried out regarding the election of EPS Director-General through a public competition during March 2001, which is the first, only and possibly the last time that the country's largest public company general is elected in such a way. That throwing dust into the public eye was the first example of surreal transparency. That's what you say, democratic, and I say thieving changes. How transparent the best information was that a member of the EPS selection committee was Sveta Bulatovic, otherwise the executive director of the EFT firm at the time. Of course, the choice wasn't made to choose a man with a vision of how to, for years, a ruined company, resuscitate and place it on his feet, but to choose a man enough to be directed into EPS affairs, but infinitely grateful and obedient to his benefactors who would place him in that place. That was Mr. Geric. Now watch what happens. Is it possible that Ljubomir Geric, and the one who comes to the head of the NIS after that, will be school buddies? Is it possible for some competition or serious choice, so it happens by chance, to say that they went to some big high school, a big school, so it happened by accident. They both went to school at St. St. John's, so the elementary school went to the same school, so the comrades have been sharing money ever since, so it's all gone, so it's all gone to no one. What happens next? It's worth mentioning, I've got a lot of stuff, I just won't be able to say it all. I ask you, Mr. Markovic, when will that report, what was your obligation, to put on the agenda, the Survey Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14078	Mr. Wolfie, just keep going. As you know, I'll always go by the Rules of Procedure, as soon as I get the terms, put them on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14079	Thank you very much, Mr. Markovic, but I'm reading the Rules of Procedure myself, so I haven't seen anywhere that there's a chance that you can keep your drawer for a year. I haven't seen that member. Two cases of fitting specifically to be mentioned, by Goran Novakovic and Dimitri Vukcevic, and realised through the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. An EPS tender for the purchase of electricity in the Hungarian direction is indicative from 15 November 2001 to 30 November 2002, a job worth about $45m. The tender is subject to financial conditions, setting up everything that secures a safe victory for the EFT, which is the first payment only after six months and an advantage for those who do not seek the guarantee of the bank. That should dissipate all potential bidders except the EFT. The moment is noted, but it is known only now, that at the time the owner of Trast Bank was, imagine, Vuk Hamovic. Also, it's probably by accident that a large percentage of all EPS inflows went right through Trast Bank, very perfiduous and skillful. But besides that, there are four bidders. The lowest price offers German RVE with $28.5 per megawatt hour, EFT $28.9. He wins the EFT at a higher price, and with a reason he's not looking for a guarantee from the bank. Why would he ask if EPS already keeps his money at Hamovic's? Is that a crime or not? Why, when he's holding this country's money, $28 million in their Euroaxis bank in Moscow? Is that a crime or not? Is it corruption or not? It's a question for the minister. Another example worth listing is the service maputite processing contract in the TTO Novi Sad reached between Interface and EPS. It's where fairies, apartments, houses aren't very interested, they know they've been robbed a lot. The meaning of the arrangement, the electricity produced in the TTO Novi Sad, is exported from Serbia to the EFT account in Greece, Albania, Kosovo, it is abroad for them, already per daily distribution by the EFTA. Since this is a lon-job on a mule you don't pay customs and taxes. Thanks to this, the Interface has bought 130,000 tonnes of maguta from Vojin Lazarevic of Dimitri Vukcevic, from his godfather's godfather, at a price of $100.6 per tonne. The 2002 EPS official balance sheet provides a coefficient for the processing of electricity mules. Since the first three months of the EPS balance are scheduled to deliver an EFT of 344 gigawatt-hours, which takes 83,900 tonnes of mules, and a simple division of 4.1 kilowatt-hours from one kilogram of mules. It's not a fact that you can get a maximum of 3.55 kilowatt hours. And it's a clean crime, but not the only one, since the business ran during the summer of 2001 and throughout the winter of 2001 and 2002. With a price of $24.53 per megawatt hour, direct damage to EPS and NIS can be observed. They were later established by documentation and analysis of the contract, carried out by the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia, which is your Ministry – and I don't think when people from different parties are that the state has to change, as some of you think – and have done an analysis of 11 agreements between the EPS and the EFT. It makes it clear how and how abuses have been committed and how and how the robbery of state property has taken place. It's huge money. I'll just read the conclusion, that I'm not reading everything, so that the citizens of Serbia can understand the situation of the robbery. The total loss of EPS and NIS in the realisation of six direct contract contracts can be estimated at between $4,628,260 and 10,680,000. This is only 11 contracts analysed. Not everyone else, and these con men around the dump and everything. Therefore, from 2,708,260 to 8,760,000 is the loss of NIS by both contracts for the sale of mules, depending on whether the loss is calculated in relation to the average NIS export price, the lower value, or the European average price in the same period, although it should be borne in mind and it should not be excluded that the opportunity to sell mules was limited. There is an even bigger difference compared to the prices at which NIS sold lube to domestic heat. Furthermore, $218.320 loss of EPS on the contract with the EFT, marginal processing costs and loss due to poorly agreed processing coefficient; $542.520 loss of EPS under the contract with the "Interface" due to unpaid marginal cost of production and maintenance; 1.377,240 loss at different prices of EPS imports and prices at which the "Interface" received energy from the maputate processing. These are only parts of what the competent state authorities have officially established. That's something that, respected citizens of Serbia, we have to stand up to. Let me ask you, Mr. President, since I'd like to take a break, and I want to continue, will you take a break?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14080	Just finish as long as you want, and we'll take a break. Would you like to hang up and get back to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14081	If you don't mind, if the MPs agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14082	It's not a problem. We're about to move from this Paddy Ashdown report, which you've quoted so far, I suppose, to part two.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14083	Don't hint, it's not that report.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14084	Thank you very much. A brief hour's break, then Mr. Wolf's sequel. You've been talking for 35 minutes, so you'll continue. [[After breaks – 16,35]] We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. Please at first determine the quorum. I find that the electronic system shows that we have enough MPs to continue our work. Let me begin by congratulating all of you and all of Serbia's citizens on a positive assessment of the feasibility study, which would be impossible without the work that this parliament had last year and responsibility. My congratulations. [[Applause]] Once again, I remind you that this is only a prerequisite for all the responsibility that surely all parties in this House will show in the future. Thank you very much. We're continuing our work. Mr. Wolfie, you interrupted your exposure in 35 minutes. Here you go. The next MP is Radmilo Milosevic-Baja, who will get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to object to Mr. Markovic's violation, abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and when I see you so happy, it's hard for me to tell him after lunch, cafes, everything. I just want you to look forward to it, and I came here to fight you and the mob, and that's my job, unlike you who don't know what you're fighting for. Soon, I hope that Serbia's citizens, not our politicians, will have the opportunity to look forward to a better life, but difficult while you are in power, difficult while corruption reigns in Serbia, difficult while the mafia is ruling. And that the mafia is ruling in Serbia, and not only is it in all the social life, not only has its tentacles everywhere, it best shows the sphere of social life covered by Minister Naumov, which is energy. As we MPs of the SRS this morning pointed out before you and the citizens of Serbia, in this sphere it is best seen how large capital, how thieving can become the essence and strategy and tactics of the action of the leaders and the electricity industry and the NIS. I'm sure Mr. Secretary has prepared the answers. It seems that, Mr. President, this positive study has significantly improved the traffic in the buffet, at least as far as some special drinks are concerned, but please warn some of them to be a little quieter. I am sure Minister Naumova has prepared answers to what are three million concerts, which are athletic clubs that deserve to support eight million, that Serbian citizens pay everything out of their pockets, and that they are not clear about anything, because of anyone, or who is the one who makes the decision contrary to the law to that money and thus directs it. We also talked here about the failure of the president of the National Assembly, not by accident, but by intention, to put on the agenda a report on the work of the polling committee, and to show us what the polling committee found in connection with the crime in the EPS, the financial and banking affairs related to the electricity trade. I see it doesn't bother anyone, the minister laughs a little bit, and everyone else laughs a little bit. What people do, one day they get to say something to themselves, even if they laugh at themselves. When every night on national television, Serbian citizens know that, every night on national television, I usually say that, at the beginning, as if we were living in Switzerland, and at the end of the diary, as if we had crossed Switzerland. Now let me show you what we have overcome all the countries, and those that are the most corrupt in the world, and the more the citizens of Serbia worry about lies, fiction and nonsense about how they live well and how little they wait for this wonderful government, and they will live three times better. I've brought an example, and I hear you asked Solana to let you go another two and a half years to arrest all those they're looking for, and then you'll have all those who bother you, so you can't rule that way. You will hardly succeed in this work, since the people want to change and the people want to fight the mafia, against those who bring you envelopes, to which individual laws pay. He says, the Prime Minister's office, this is the former prime minister, information on the work of the Morava Termo power plant during the January-February 2002 intervention import. During the intervention of imports from London's EFT company in February 2002 (From the Hall: Is this what Laufer reports? Laufer is your boss now, if that's what you're interested in, you don't seem to know. , with the power of delivery of 50 megawatt hours. The EPS Power System Management Directorate has issued a warrant to stop Morava Termo Power Plant, 100 megawatts. The Morava thermal power plant was in a cold reserve from January 29th to February 25th, 2002. Now you're going to hear why she was in a state of cold reserve, regardless of the fact that coal was enough, which the thermal power plant could normally work and function normally. In January-February 2002, Serbia's Elektroprivreda signed four contracts for the intervention of electricity imports with the EFT company. A total of 138,000 megawatt hours were imported, with 104,400 megawatt hours in January and 33,600 megawatt hours in February. While January imports took place on January 29th 2002, a warrant was issued to Termoelectrics must be stopped, due to the improvement of the electricity situation in the EPS power system, by the bloc. Imports continued throughout February, which was only concluded on 14 February, with a total of 33,600 megawatt hours, 50 megawatt hours during 28 days, and $1209,600 was paid. There is absolutely no excuse for this import, since our 100 megawatt power plant was in reserve. This is an official statement, official information delivered to the prosecutor, which was delivered to all competent state authorities, by Assistant Minister Ljiljana Hadji-Babic during that period. Did any of you get upset about that? Have you ever found the truth about this? Why you never wanted to hear, to hear, what is most important, and that is -- what did those who knew all about the EFT business, or most of all, tell you about it and how to prevent the mafia from doing business. You're not. You're not, because the mob is directly involved, with all the leadership, with those you've brought to power in certain public enterprises. Now I'm going to show you what a timely organisational scheme in the EPS looked like, to see little godfathers drinking the blood of Serbia. I hear they sued me for that text, which the Sunday Telegraph published. They shouldn't sue "The Weekly Telegraph", they should sue me, I said in person -- that the godmothers drink the blood of Serbia. Here, now I repeat, to repeat this lawsuit against me, let these people leave you alone. Here, an organisational scheme in the EPS, of course, everything moves from who? From Vuk Hamovic. He went through Sveta Bulatovic, who, in his time, was employed by the EPS, in the most important place in the EPS, and then, even as one of the most important people in the EPS, participated in that commission, which was elected by Ljubomir Geric, as the CEO of the EPS. Today is the man - where? Executive Director of EFT. Then there was Ljubomir Geric, CEO of the EPS, and look, I'm talking about what the scheme was in 2002. There was Vladimir Djordjevic, Vladimir Marjanović, Pavle Vulić, Ratko Bogdanovic, Ljuba Maćić, one of the ones you are proposing today at the Agency's Council – even worse – Dana Vukovic, Branka Pavlovic and Dragan Vignjevic. [[refers to a comment from an unheard hall]] What's changed since then? One of these on the EFT payroll, one of those mobsters, was appointed Director-General, no less or less, and these were some of those who opposed mafia business and said at meetings of the National Assembly of Serbia polling committee and envisioned by the transparent government to head Serbia's Elektroprivreda. And here's how things are in the organization scheme at NIS. Here, therefore, you have some historical elements, to see how the mafia always protects itself and how it progresses. He says the same, of course - Vuk Hamovic – it's funny to you, it's not funny to Serbian citizens how the mafia rules this country and how corruption destroys the tissue, and only you laugh – means, Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, Goran Novakovic, former minister, but what, his friend from Santa Monica's cafe, there at Los Angeles, Dimitria Vukcevic. And listen now to these names - Bosko Prosenica, Zoran Nikodinovic, Rade Culum, Vesna Marjanović – and this is what she worked at the firm's "Squadra" and PIM" company, Vojina Lazarevic, one of the top mobsters, worked with him at the firm, but was then placed in the position of the head of sales at Jugopetrol, on that-pot – then, Željko Popovic, then vice-general for economic and financial affairs, Radovan Bajić, Milisav Đurica, chairman of the Supervisory Board, one and another decision, as he is told him, Sinisa Borovic. Now, this Zeljko Popovic, you see what he used to be. He was still fifth or sixth in the hierarchy, he wasn't exactly the first, but since they couldn't leave all the same, like at the time when there was another political coalition in power, then they took this mobster's head, and this mobster today spent 57 million instead of seven million, just paying for the commercial. He spends 33,491,000 total unscheduled funds. For what? To sponsorships and donations. That's the pattern. Now, am I able to remember who everyone else is, besides being tied up by mob work, how much money they're going to grab, how much State they're going to damage, how much money they're going to steal, they're all connected to each other with the most godfather's connections. Believe it or not, how is it possible for you, Mr. Minister, to appoint the best man of Vojin Lazarevic, after all, after all the jobs, to be Director General of NIS? Is that true? Yes, it is. Yes, Mr. Minister. Well, how can you put one in this nomenclature here today for the president of the council? How is that possible, Mr. Naumov? It seems that the more the mafia strengthens and the more blood it drinks to the citizens of Serbia, the better the place and the greater the position in your government is taking. Now, Mr. Minister, that's something you can't accept. Since I spent 11 minutes, it's a total of 45, is it so, Mr. Chairman, that other colleagues from the SRS might get the word, now I'm going to interrupt, and then I'm asking you as deputy head of Parliament after you give me your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14087	The word is given to the People's Messenger Radmilo Milosevic - Baja.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14088	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this act that we are discussing today, the development strategy by 2015, I had in my hands a little earlier, and I tried to talk to some people, who are experts in energy, and they don't belong to the government, to the ministry, to the political parties, and to hear their opinion. They said this energy development strategy in Serbia is an extremely good act. That it's better than the land around it. That after a long time, we got an act we didn't have. Of course, there were remarks that the strategy was a little general and that there were no concrete details. But the strategy doesn't need to contain these specific things. It is up to the government and the Ministry to complement this strategy over the next ten years, and of course, to develop more detailed plans and projects for energy development. I won't be long on this act because it contains many facts, but what impressed me personally is that the strategy put the use of small water streams i.e. mini-hydrocentres and per cent of the ministry on our small water streams in Serbia's hill-mounted areas are somewhere around 1,800 gigawatt-hours, which is about 30% of the energy of the one that has large river streams, and about 6,000 is, as I recall, gigawatt-hours on large rivers, and about 2,000 is on small streams. What I've been trying to do for a long time, in the previous government and in the previous ministry, is to get to the point that people who are interested, on smaller streams, on smaller water streams, place hydrodes from 10 to 50 megawatts, and what's extremely useful is that these streams are usually mountainous, lush. After the snow melts, they have the highest water capacity, and these are some autumn and winter periods, where we need electricity and most needed. The construction of these mini-electricals is also useful because it regulates the currents of these streams, so we will not have cases, such as in a stream from the Mines, which destroys the "Nikolje" monastery, because if a mini-hydrocentre had been placed there earlier, it would have regulated that water stream and would not have made the floods its i.e.. make damage and undermine the roads and such a significant object as the monastery "Nikolje". What I expect from the Ministry is that all these water streams are evaluated, their strength, and simply prescribes what is needed by a potential investor, so that when it is arranged, to publish a public call, that all interested people can come to the Ministry and get all the necessary information - that all the permits need to be added, they could set up a mini-hydrous. That's what this act, the development strategy predicts, and the Ministry is to do these details and simply get at least half of those 1,800 gigawatt-hours. I'm not talking about non-renewable resources here, it's lignite, which we have the most, but the same thing, that lignite isn't some quality coal, and it needs to be used as much as possible, and that's supposed to be this strategy, it's designed to build objects. What is important is the same thing, that human environment protection is envisaged, so that the ecology will participate in it, and the existing facilities will surely suffer some investments to protect the environment, so that we do not get what one of the MPs said that ash and fog can't get past the thermos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14089	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Frislav Peric, from the place: You have weakened now. That's right. The only problem is we can't brag about getting those envelopes to us, but that's why we're happy and proud, to tell you the truth. And I heard this about the Legion's wife and Chad, I guess the citizens of Serbia heard about it, but it's not exactly on the agenda. As I see it, you from the DSS, you can't sleep from a nightmare called Cedomir Jovanovic, I know, you don't sleep at night, you're just working on a feasibility study. Yeah, well, it's a miracle. I know, you and the owls, everything in the duet like that, every night you find yourself, so you talk about what's best for Serbia, you just can't think of anything smart. If you want to give me my time back, since it's obvious that the more cheerful MPs are the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to coal reserves in Kosovo and Metohija, especially lignite reserves and what it says in the text strategy proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I just have to say that not only is it a vague political context, not only how it is unclear and how the Republic of Serbia thinks it is exercising its right in its territory, but we get completely wrong signals, contrary to decisions made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have heard something today that the National Assembly has not decided, that is, directly opposed to the resolution adopted by the highest home in this country, which is not to go to the hands of those who want to co-operate with the Albanian authorities in Kosovo and Metohija and to give them the legitimacy for all anti-Serbian moves and moves against the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, and we have been informed that, I suppose, that someone else would praise you, said that those unfortunates, even criminals, if you will, are one I think, 11 years of a judicial verdict convicted of the most serious crimes, so one of the worst criminals... Well, the theme is, it's better to be the subject than who's going to drink as many glasses here, because you're going to talk about Switzerland and Sweden in his diary. So we expect you to stick to what you are here in the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija already said. We know there won't be any of these small, tiny parties that will leave the government, because they wouldn't have thought of it, because no more parliament on the postcards, and they wouldn't be able to watch on the Internet after any choice. But we're warning you because you're going to like the election, whether you like it or not, eventually they're going to have to come. So you can negotiate with Solano that the elections don't suit you now, you can arrange to be defeated in half a year or at any time, however, in those elections, because people want to change and they want to fight the mafia and corruption. Now I'm going to read about the financing of political parties, and it's about Mr Hamovic, Lazarevic and the other mob bosses in our country. Namely, first they start, already in the period since 1996, with the funding of parties in power, the purchase of individual vehicles. Today when they buy vehicles, they're usually the most modern full-use jeeps and mandatory GPS, they were then the flag of vehicles. It is no accident that two of those who took over the EPS at the time, completing their business with blizzard affairs, even contracted and sold the Shipyard "Belgrade" to Vuk Hamovic. First the sale was made and then the sale was cancelled. However, an interesting trade starts at the time, as those who will later become ministers, DS ministers, and these are Aleksandar Vlahovic, Goran Pitic. The essence of the scandal with an attempt to sell the Shipyard, of course, was in miserable value. The evaluation, of course, was carried out by Deloitte & Touche, headed by the already known ministers from the previous government. That very fact meant that the new government would be "reformal", and that reform is understood by allegation, so it will take as much away as possible, as you do when you say after democratic changes, each time it is necessary to add first of all to the thiefic changes. So then new Hamovic's people come to the head of the Shipyard to destroy it a little bit more, to destroy it, so that it can go to privatisation with a price that will be incomparably lower than the market requires. The financing of DS Zoran Djindjic Hamovic and Lazarevic began in mid-1999 after the signing of the Kumanov resolution. In the last three years, they have received all jobs, accounting for between 350m and 400m euros, and a minimum. In millions of euros, the support given to individual DOS political parties can also be counted. They occupied EPS and NIS, primarily through then appointed Minister Goran Novakovic, who today has an ERG company, Energy Resources Group, based in Genex apartments, in the same rooms where up until a few months ago, the EFT had moved into its new building. It is even less known that his firm was still for 2004 before signing a contract with the NIS for imports of 840,000 tonnes of crude oil. Of course, the look on the face-to-face doesn't need to be specifically talked about, I think we've done this on a little earlier occasion well enough to show what it looks like. An example is what happened at the National Savings Bank, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. He knew all of that, of course, and the previous prime minister, but even when the new prime minister arrived, nothing changed. These people have funded, and today they are the key financialists of the two most important parties in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which are DSS and G17 plus. These people are the ones who bring an envelope today when it takes anyone to finish even some "state job" that the genius strategists have decided is of national interest, of strategic importance, that there is nothing in this country that can be done without it, because only they have the right to decide. I don't want to read the details, it might be difficult for some of us to talk about where, who, who and where it brings it, but I think the citizens of Serbia are more interested in the fact that this is really happening today in this country. Here I will show you a few examples of how and how they were sent to the prosecutions and criminal charges, and explanations from individual ministries, and notes sent by both the minister and the deputy ministers, and to which no one has responded. So, according to the criminal charges of Mr Djordjevic, it is not yours, which was on Hamovic's team from the beginning, it is another man who delivered Mirjana Jovanovic, the deputy public prosecutor, and she asks the Republic of Serbia, from the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia for further explanations on mafia affairs, how much, and how much, the state of Serbia has damaged in all these affairs. So in the information itself, the competent state authority, and therefore your authority in charge of energy affairs, has been responding to this - since 2000 there have been 10 contracts between the EPS and the EFT, which we are sending you a more detailed analysis in addition. For contracts signed after the tender procedure, we think they're correct. But we have 11 contracts that we are giving you specifically for analysis: (a) July 2001 a service-processing contract was concluded in the EPS, the Termoelectrica and Toplana in Novi Sad. NIS-Yugopetrol from Belgrade sold the mule to the EFT company, the mule was temporarily imported to Serbia for processing into electricity, and the produced energy was delivered to the EFT firm. The EPS did not charge anything for processing, which must have caused him significant material damage. (b) under the same model in December 2001, a contract was concluded with an English firm (Interface limited St. Vincent) Interface limitid st. Vincent, it's possible these two English companies have the same owners. They don't have the same, but they're connected faces, as we could have found at the Committee meetings. The EPS did not charge for the work of its power plant, and because of the rental of production facilities in the middle of the winter, it had to import energy at very high prices. I hear, Mr. Minister, that almost the same jobs are being done today, only with even bigger cash transactions and bigger profits for the same group of mobsters. In January-February 2002, they were signed with the EFT four contracts for the intervention of electricity imports totalling six million dollars, while electricity deliveries were carried out on the basis of a maputate processing contract. The price was directly affected, of course even before the Public Procurement Act, those who were doing their job would always try to obtain a larger number of offers and make the most favourable offer to be accepted. So, here it's a direct contract business, that price was much higher than the price at which the energy was delivered, although the electricity on the market was expensive in winter, these prices were much more than expected. Therefore, both service-processing contracts and four intervention import contracts deserve special attention and are analysed in the annex. Of course, they are assessed as criminal and are assessed for the damage caused to the EPS and the state of Serbia in general. That's why no one answered, the prosecutors are silent, the prosecutors are probably waiting for a change of government, to tell you, here you are from nine to 10%, and your coalition partners from three to four percent, since none can be praised for being 5%. They are here at three to 4%, and soon they will fall below 2%, as Serbian citizens are waiting for something to be better for them, not to be better on the RTS daily and on other news shows. Furthermore, all the time in doing business, so other than people who directly relate to the EPS, to NIS, the top political government participates. It is the political government that allows criminal activities to be carried out. Tomislav Nikolic, head of our parliamentary group and deputy president of the SRS, has several times been the top of the regime in Serbia not only taking criminal charges filed by the competent prosecutor's office against those people I spoke of, but also telling them that the most dangerous thing for a country when the mafia starts to bite the system in general. The answer was: We will consider it. And what happens after that? After that, all kinds of counselors come along and say, well, that's bullshit, you know how many things this guy or that guy did to us, you know how many times he brought us an envelope for this one or for the one that needed to be regulated. No regulations with the mob, ladies and gentlemen. And you're going to say, yes, they're powerful. Yes, they are very powerful, they have the most powerful tutors, mentors, helpers, for the $10,000 salary they give each month to individual world powers. It's true, but it still has nothing to do with them being criminals, so now we have to leave them alone. If you don't want to prosecute the biggest criminals in this country, it's obvious that you don't, not only in the field of energy, but also in the field of telecommunications, why are you all being naive, like you don't know who's the biggest criminals, like you don't know who's taking 300,000 euros a day, not you, but Serbian citizens, so you can't even say your name, you can't say anything, because you can't deal with criminals. You can deal with Nebojša Pavkovic's daughter, after 14 years of firing her. That's what you're allowed to do, to boast, to say, my dear Solana, we've done everything you asked, but those who steal and steal so much, rob Serbia, we won't arrest them. That's the point. Is it because the best man is best man, so the best man can do whatever comes to his mind, I know the best man isn't a button, but there's a law for the best man, and the best man has to answer, and the best man has to be subject to the same rules as the rest of the citizens? How are you going to tell the citizens why they have to abide by the law if the best men don't have to, if the best men have to spend 50 million more than what the government has allowed, and they have to judge for themselves as they will and in the way they will. The minister won't say it's not exactly like that, it's a little different. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you don't have to, Mr. Omerovic, throw it away, but if you're looking for an answer, I'll answer you. I will not speak of your godmothers and the pressure on certain competent state authorities. As for that godfather you mentioned, only the SRS with pride, so to speak, did she not vote for that godfather and bear the mark of shame upon herself that perhaps one moment she could vote for him, which at any time does everything against the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the state community she represents. The rest of you who voted for him, in this period or that period, all of you think carefully about what an accident you've caused to Serbia's neck. As far as we're concerned, our conscience is completely clear. I have to say, I'm surprised, I've been informed today that about these godfather ties, that everything that's going on in NIS has been informed and representatives of the highest state authorities, that they've received these letters. I was hoping they didn't know, and what they know scared me extra, because now it's clear to me that they're not just keeping their mouths shut, but it's clear to me that they support it, that they support that one spot costs them so much. And there is, listen to the example, the man who eats with the golden eschew, it's one of the directors of NIS. He won't eat anything else. Now I'm going to tell you, we have the signatures of 39 workers, delivered by means of public information, some Milos Tomic, Velja Milosevic, some of the directors of the parts. He says - Naftagas Transport Director, Bosko Vučurević, is looking exclusively, everywhere and in every place shows photos, that only food, or food, is served from a gold service abroad. It doesn't look any different to me, he says, nor should I eat. And he says it was the craziest thing in America. And everything is paid by card, of course, at the expense of the company, or the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Shormaz, the proof is this, now you'll see what evidence is, here's evidence, Mr. Shormaz, invoice number 8-0/04 DU 32, 20.01.2004, 810 000 - marketing service, and why you don't know. Further, 072/04 DU 57 - ad, 475.041,60. What ad is worth that much somewhere? Just show me that, that newspaper in Serbia that's worth so much. You leased the whole paper? The whole country in no newspaper in Serbia is worth that much. What are you guys doing? What are you talking about? A television video of 1,305,000 dinars. What's your video? Since you say it's not a document and I'm lying, it's number 441121 DU-2103 since 20.7.2004. All to check it out. A little spot number? So what did you learn if it was a small number for making a video? It's hard for Serbia if it's small. Serbian citizens have heard whether it's cheap or not cheap. There's something else about the RTS pricer. You'll hear it now. Somewhere around 40 million was given, not one million, but apparently you didn't want to hear what I was saying today. They are allowed 7 million from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? Why don't you control a mob that drinks blood to Serbian citizens? Because it's the easiest thing to say -- these guys want to take us to Antarctica and the Arctic, and we're big Europeans, so we can steal and steal as much as we want, the mob can rule Serbia, and we don't care about everyone. I think the citizens of Serbia... I'd talk more than my throat's dry. Thanks for that, I can't answer you, living with the same drink you're using, drinking water, and I'm happy about it. I just have to tell you in the end that I'm sure, regardless of what you've made public your wish, here's Miodrag Vukovic introduced us to that last night, publicly announced that you asked Javier Solan to postpone your election for a little while, so Mr. Solana can postpone the election for you, since no one will vote alive for you. Serbian citizens want to live better, not to be told in Dnevnik, but to feel it. They want to live better, they want to see the fight against the mafia, corruption and crime, and they will not wait until there is a change of government, as today unfortunately the mafia is ruling Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14091	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica. Then MP Meho Omerovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14092	The ruling coalition is always mentioned, and in the context of this, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the minister belonging to the Democratic Party of Serbia, and in the context of the whole story you had. Let's start at the end. So you're a great diagnosticist when you claim that Serbian citizens want to live better. That's awesome. How did you find out? We don't know that as others? We have different information, that they want to live up there, and probably by you we try every way we can to afford it. Don't, it's incorrect. On the other hand, when it comes to what you've been talking about, mentioning the mafia, crime and everything else, which is, of course, our goal to solve, what's problematic in your testimony, is that you're trying to sublime all three branches of government within yourself, while you're sitting in opposition benches, so you've had a phenomenal play here, which can serve to entertain the people, but it's the right thing to do with a little bit of your testimony. So you've been here at the same time as the prosecutor, and the judge, the juror, and the one carrying out the evidence, reads them. At the oral request of the MPs, you have read the relevant documents, and in the end you have overlooked only one thing, that the state authorities of this state in the system should do their job to the end. And when it comes to the Performance Study, which you obviously do today and this speech of yours, and you are not interested in it at all because it expresses your position towards European accession, which is your right, it means no treaty with the European Union, no political moment at all, but it represents evidence that at some point this country has managed to acquire certain conditions that speak of being ready to face all the problems in this country, and these problems are of an economic nature, these problems are institutional nature. Therefore, they are seen in their generality and this feasibility study, although it serves one purpose, the accession process itself represents evidence, because no one in this sense has been seen through the fingers of who was going through the process, it is proof that we have earned a certain rating in this regard. You can deny it. The result of all this will soon be felt. The DSS will work in every way possible, because it is our task, to make these citizens better, and it should be the task of each of us, and I don't dispute that this is the task of the SRS, but please, when you come to power the next day, if you come to power, you'll have to inherit, and you'll be able to, if you ever come to power, on your own, never most likely, you'll be able to inherit these results, and you obviously haven't achieved those results, but someone else, and you shouldn't forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14093	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14094	I volunteered for the replica of my colleague Vukic, but apparently Mr. Aligrudic was talking here about a feasibility study. I don't know what the godfathers have to do with the feasibility study, which we got the satisfaction of Serbia's citizens. Mr. Vucic, I didn't mean the intrusion I told you, although inappropriately, of the godfather's ties between the president of the two parliamentary parties that have parliamentary groups in this House. I was thinking about what you were thinking, about best man's connections in Serbia's Elektroprivreda. I think you are truly the most invited to talk about best-looking ties in Serbia's Elektroprivred, because you were the chairman of the Survey Committee on Abuses and Irregularity in the Elektroprivred Serbia, and I'm surprised that you didn't use your right and intervened to finally get that report of the Survey Committee on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, as it is, because I guess we did it to have a report on the work of the Survey Committee. I also expect and wonder why we do not have a report on the work of the Securities Commission, not on points 19, 20 and 21 of this discussion on the financial reports of the Securities Commission. Just enough so there wouldn't be any misunderstanding. And if there are godfather ties in Serbia's Elektroprivred, that Serbian citizens feel the results of these godfather ties, it's more than clear to all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14095	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14096	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I may have misunderstood Mr. Omerovic, thank him for what he said. What I was saying is, so not only can't I have any interest, I can just have a risk. All those who know what I've been talking about know what a risk it is for those who talk about such mobsters and who, in such a way, dares the entire public to know, what all the media can do to make it appear to them in all other ways. I think this society must, first of all, express its clear view of mafia, crime and corruption. And one thing you remembered, which I probably wouldn't remember, which is really in place, and that's what this has to do with it, Mr. Aligrudic, is what I was talking about with the Performance Study. For some unknown reason, you introduced it into the subject, for some unknown reason you started to say, like, godfathers have nothing to do, but everything we've done has contributed. I've never heard of your condition to arrest a mobster, but your condition is to arrest those accused by the UN tribunal. We haven't heard on TV yet that you arrest the Telecommunication mobsters, the energy lobby mobsters, the mobsters from the financial or any other lobby. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: By your judgment. It's not according to my judgment. That means, since you're a state, since we have prosecutors who are an independent body, it means that prosecutors don't do their jobs, either we don't have a mafia, or there's no thieving or crime, or something in this country is going on weird, or I've taken over, which Mr. Aligrudic would say, their roles, which I'm not, obviously, because I can't be. As an opposition MP, Mr. Aligrudic, I have the right to say everything from this pay phone and point to fundamental problems in society and the state. Your answer must not be "you and the judge and the prosecutor", because neither the prosecutor nor the judge are doing anything. We did what we could. We have filed criminal charges, and the prosecutor is silent and waiting for you, who are very strong, powerful, large, self-rule with Serbia, is so broadly supported by the citizens of Serbia, and only will you rule on your own, that's a miracle. So, since it's all like that and the citizens of Serbia noticed it, and the prosecutors also, they are waiting for a change of government to take place, so they are likely to take action. I'm stamping it because some are waiting for the government to change to do it. There will be proceedings against some people at the level of local self-government only when power is changed. That's our problem, that's the problem this society is facing, because you're able to prosecute those who are your political opponents, but you're not able to prosecute mobsters, because these guys aren't sure if they're really involved with this or that party in power. God cannot capture five or six parties in power, who is connected to them and in what way, who brings to whom what he brings and how. As far as the SRS is concerned, we're proud of one thing: you can't tell us that we've bothered you in any business, you can't say that we've been an incorrect opposition, that we've been someone who's causing you any big trouble in the country at all. We are the political party that points to Serbian citizens what they would change, what they would do differently. I think tomorrow, if I were the government or part of the government, someone who would somehow participate in power, I'd like to have the opposition that you have, because it's a normal work, a normal conversation and a normal confrontation. If you don't think so, see that you're making enemies out of us, make sure you make something else out of this House that he, at least today, wasn't. I don't mind. We don't have another country, we don't want to run anywhere, and for the country, we'll always do what we think is best. You can't accuse us of any single thing, that you have a problem with it because of the SRS, or Kosovo and Metohija, or anything else. We can ask you why the memorandum is not on the agenda, why the Assembly's agenda is not a report on the work of the Committee of Auditors. I've been asking Mr. Markovic today, and every time I sit in my bench, Mr. Markovic won't answer, even though he told me three times today he'll answer that question. Why isn't there a report on the work of the Committee of Auditors in this assembly? Someone wants to tell me to shut up. Do you know what they did, a businessman tells me they didn't give you money? As you can see, they're not, because I'm one of the few people in this country who can say they're the biggest mobsters and criminals. Let's see who else can say that. Let me see why you don't cooperate with the mob and what you say they don't bring you envelopes. Why don't you come out and tell the best man that they're the best man of the mob? Come out and tell me they're the biggest criminals, or you'll tell me that the court has not reached a verdict. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Markovic, thank you for your patience. It's time to fight robbery, crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14097	Replica, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14098	Mr. Vukic mentioned me in his earlier presentation. I'll take this opportunity not to talk about what Mr. Vukic was talking about, just one sentence, it's about international standards, in which way the value assessment was carried out in a specific case. It exists as a public document and can be checked at any time. However, I will use this to say about the Performance Study, which is so easily embraced by the parliamentary majority as the biggest possible contribution the coalition in power has achieved at this point. It would be fair and fair to say that a positive assessment is conditional and that there are some other conditions that must be met before the talks on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreements are approached. I expect that in the next period, all political parties will contribute to this goal maximum, just as the DS in the previous period, above all, acted responsibly and stately during the period when it was decided to obtain a positive assessment of the Performance Study. This responsible behaviour of the DS has also shown that it has voted in favour of many reform laws in this assembly, regardless of the fact that these laws have just been prepared by the DS. So, you have repeatedly pointed out in the Assembly that the current assembly meeting in the last year was the most effective, which is simply not true. Among other things, he was efficient enough because the whole number of legal proposals waited for him to be adopted. Why was he waiting? Why are we just getting a positive assessment of the feasibility study today, and we didn't get it a year ago? I agree, the merit is right on your part, that at some point you have not acted with national responsibility, responsible for the basic objectives of our country, and one of these basic objectives is to approach the European Union. So let's not brag about that little first step on the way to the European Union. We've still got a lot of work to do. To the extent that political responsibility is measured by the state responsibility of each political party, to that extent, we will be able to reach our final goal. Indeed, I advise all political parties to put their party goals behind the state's goal, just as the DS behaves all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14099	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, when something important is spoken of, such as a positive assessment of the feasibility study, I think it must be spoken with one dose of dignity, because a positive assessment of the feasibility study is evidence of the pro-European and reform path that our country is going to. This is a historic moment for Serbia and for all citizens, regardless of political commitment. We are not here to reduce or increase it, but to tell the citizens in reality that we have achieved it, and to achieve it with envious activity, if you will this Parliament. When it is said "most in the history of the Serbian parliament", it is an exact fact. So far, this assembly assembly has passed about a hundred laws, which is the most in the Serbian parliament's history. What is important to point out is that a positive assessment of the Performance Study means that the Commission informs our country that wants to become a member of the European Union, so we want to be a member of the European Union, that we are able, as a country, to participate in the dialogue, in talks with the European Union on the accession and stabilisation process. A positive assessment of the feasibility study is a document containing 50 pages, in which we have three parts. The first part is an evaluation of the previous situation. The other part is political and economic criteria. The third is an assessment of the situation in individual areas. It is a significant elaborate, which speaks of us being on the European path, is a ticket to Europe. In this country, as far as political criteria are concerned, democracy and the rule of law are developing. In this country, economic criteria are met, which means macroeconomic stability, public finance reform, privatisation and reform of the economy as a whole. It's important for citizens to say it out loud and clear, yes, we are responsible for getting a positive assessment. But not only that, this country receives 184m euros from the European Union for the KAC programme, which means the development of institutions, development in different areas, and further progress in the development of the country itself. Not only that, if we have the strength, knowledge and skills to continue to develop and progress in relations with the EU, there will be appropriate types of assistance for the development of institutions in general and state, and assistance to citizens in different areas. I'd say, say, agriculture. We must finally open ourselves up as a country and show courage and determination to go the right way, and today we are, that's what we're going to be tomorrow, that guarantees you G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14101	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Nikolic and then Minister Naumov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14102	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I call on Article 100. In fact, I felt in the presentation of Mr. Vlahovic's disrespect for this assembly, a certain amount of indignation. You don't need that, and you don't have to do it as a representative of the Democratic Party, because if you want us to tell you from this place how much your participation in getting a positive feasibility study is, then we'll do it. Your share is almost immeasurable. There's no need to talk like that. This is a good thing for the state and good for our people. When something like that happens to the state and something like that happens to our people, then the hat goes off. So gather your courage and have the strength to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14103	Replica, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14104	So, Article 97, the deviation from the subject we are talking about, although I might be able to advertise Article 100, the violation of Rules of Procedure and offensive expressions, because I don't know where the MP recognized my malice, and it's particularly an insult to say that the contribution is immeasurable, of course, in that peri-cynic sense. I'll remind you of the contribution, Mr. People's Parliament, of the 15 system laws you've adopted in this assembly, 12 have been prescribed by the previous government. The three system laws you have adopted and they are your works: Law on litigation, the Law on Citizenship and the Law on Economic Society, and the Law on Economic Social in Draft version has been prepared by the previous government. When I spoke for a moment, I said it was good news for our country. I said DS was acting all the time in a way not to put obstacles to getting a positive assessment of the feasibility study. How was the political group that was in power today, and then when there was the opposition and when we could get that feasibility study a year ago, I can remind you of that. When we had negotiations on harmonising relations and establishing a single customs system, one political party said Serbia was first in line with the concept of harmonisation of two economic systems, which was a condition for starting talks on a feasibility study. What did it matter to you? That the sooner you sit in power, the sooner you delay the whole story in seven or eight months. I haven't had a single hour of debauchery, I just want to say that the reforms, which were made in 2001 and 2002, which, rightly, stopped in 2003, were dramatic and fundamentally contributed that we today could inherit the results of these reforms. And that, I am pleased to see, is why the new government continues to move towards the EU. I'm saying that it could all have been much, much faster and that political interests, my dear gentlemen, cheap political populist points, were not put ahead of the state's interests. This is a state-of-the-art interest. State interest is sacred to the DS and will always be, and will never build political interests by destroying state interests. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14105	Thank you. The word has a proposalary representative, Minister Radomir Naumov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14106	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I would like to begin this address to congratulate you all today, because, among other things, it is the result of the very work that you have brought in dozens or almost a hundred laws, and without it, of course, it would not create an ambience and conditions for both our development, both social and economic, to take place so that Europe recognizes it and to let us into that corridor that from now on introduces us and leads us ever faster and faster towards the European Union. I have to say, personally, I feel just as happy and proud, because I think that this area, the resort where I'm headed, in the course of the whole last year, has shown great progress and success, and has contributed well to this result we've heard today. Now, the case wanted us to discuss some documents in the energy sector on that very day, the beautiful day of April 12th. I must remind you that since March, when the government was elected here today, in the energy sector, as you know, there was no problem. This is one of the best years of the last 15 years, as regards the performance of all duties and tasks set before the Ministry of Mining and Energy. There was enough energy, there was enough energy, there was no affair, there was no shortage, this was the moment when we passed a system law that was a basic system law, and that's the Energy Act. It is also a period when we have brought the proposal of this strategy relatively quickly, because I have to tell you one fact - the energy development strategy has brought very few parliaments to us in Europe, I think only one or two. It's all brought either by the Ministry or by the government alone. We have this moment and this act deliberately, or should I say, programmedly carried out to do so by Parliament, because by this act and by adopting the Strategy it becomes a state act. It is, therefore, an act of the highest state level and it in one way obliges both the next government and the next government to stick to it. A strategy is a document that is not a sacred letter, which can be changed. It is a document based on the current view, on current visions, and that will be updated in two years, depending on the development of our economy and society, and in line with that. And those changes aren't at all small. I'll remind you of just one fact. If in any of our actions, both social and economic, there were such dramatic changes, it was in energy. They haven't been going on since October 2000, they've been going on for the last 20 years around the world. And we are today witnessing that, while transitions of economy and society are being carried out with us, the sector is being reformed at the same time, and the restructuring and reorganisation of energy companies is being carried out at the same time. It's a specificity that I say is very characteristic, as soon as it's specific, it's characteristic, but it's important for this moment and for an explanation. Why is there a reform in the energy sector in the first place? In order to carry out what is said to be a demonopolisation in the work of energy companies, those as one state monopoly lose their exclusiveness and become on the basis of market and business principles of business. They go to the competition, and through this competition, they need to be implemented and developed, and one reduction in the overall cost of production in this sector. Of course, for one such procedure it is necessary to take a series of steps. I must admit that, not to admit, but to conclude as a fact, the reform in our energy sector has started and even during the sanctions of the 1990s, because at least in this part of energy, in electricity and in the gas and oil industries, there has always been a high awareness of the need to adapt to world movements. In many cases we've done something that wasn't our will, but something that, I say, had to be done, if we wanted to be part of that world, and we did it. We've done a lot of work for the last four years, all together, and in electricity, and in the oil industry, and in society, and in this Parliament. So we got legal frameworks, legislation, and from those of such large and significant electricity importers, we became, I can say, exporters, or this year we were exporting, but some balance was reached in terms of imports and exports. That's a lot of range. He's never worked more reliably in the last 15 years, completely safe, thanks to the elaborate investment in electricity, large and significant resources. Nearly a billion euros were invested on various grounds. Something was invested through donations, something through credit, something was its own investment, and so on, and that's what you can see. I'm going to pull the parallel -- the same international community has been paying attention to Kosovo. It also invested nearly 500m euros in the electricity industry, and there the situation was worse than it was in 1999, when our population retreated and left the province. So it's not just about money. There is the need for knowledge, there needs one general effort to achieve such results. I would say that today was a relatively correct debate, at least until this moment, if we were to exclude these stories of the committees of inquiry. Simply, survey committees and all that we've heard from this pay phone isn't meant for you, it's normally meant for the public and the viewers, but they already know that they recognize what's true, and what's like, just creating one illusion and creating cheap political points. I can, I say again, underline that since March, there has been no affair in the energy sector since that polling committee. I've never met any of these godmothers, which are mentioned here, nor have anyone been putting any kind of pressure on me and, I must say, I feel very good about this place where I am, precisely because I don't come into moral dilemmas or into professional dilemmas. We heard several basic remarks from colleagues today, who told us on the way and that they would not vote in favour of the strategy, and the objections applied to the deadlines - whether we had adopted the strategy in time or not, whether we had established certain institutions in time. I think in these conditions we really did it at the maximum speed that we could and that the result was a very quality document that we offered you for adoption. It is quality because it is based, again, on one teamwork and our and foreign experts in the past few years, who have just made the basis for one such document, assessed and identified our energy needs and our energy opportunities. I'm saying, of course, that without such teamwork, we couldn't even get a good document. I have written down all the objections you've made to me, or questions. Unfortunately, we do not have time and this is not the place to answer all these questions, but I can say that these are more or less normal and justified issues, but issues that are not so directly related to the strategy itself. The strategy is one general document. She, I say, speaks our visions beyond our expectations and possibilities, and she is followed by programs by certain sectors. So that's where we're going to talk about capital investments, that's where we're going to work them out, and they're not in fifth place, when we say, fifth priority, they're all of the same levels and meanings, they're just lined up like that. Or the third priority - new and renewable energy sources, and starting with them now, the program is being created now. The program for Colubara B and some similar source is being run now. We have interest in both the world and the financial institutions, and some of the electricity companies that are interested in continuing this construction. We are, I say, very seriously talking and looking for a way to make it optimally resolved. So it will all be by one accelerated procedure now done. I can also tell you that I was now in Sofia on Friday and we signed there, on behalf of our and Bulgaria's energy minister by the Bulgarian government, a memorandum on the construction of the Dupnica-Nish pipeline. Our Bulgarian colleagues give it great importance, and I also hope that we, on our part, will give it an appropriate meaning, and that is one of the first very visible results of our current action. It will be a significant highway pipeline, with the possibility of later accession to Caspian springs, and to Iran-Turkey springs, possibly and to have some routes of transmission of gas to Western Europe dragged through our territory. It's a very encouraging moment and a result. A week ago, we had the same thing in Romania, with the Minister of Energy, and I can tell you that they are interested, especially in this climate of creation and so on. The energy community of Southeast Europe, to establish different interconnections between the countries of the region. Finally, what I would like to say to you, what we have received today as a positive feasibility study, as an impulse to join talks on Serbia-Montenegro's future integration into the EU, is an important step, but for you and our viewers, I can say that Serbia is already in Europe as regards the energy sector. It has virtually no obstacle in future development, relationships, meeting the necessary conditions of those chapters that will be put before us. All legal and other conditions are met. We have a cross-border transport and transfer contract, and we have a formed energy community, in June or July, probably the Prime Minister will go to sign it. This is a very important moment, as this creates a pan-European energy community, which is the third largest in the world from energy communities. Also, it means that we have met not only legal and legal requirements, but also technical all conditions, and we are getting access to funds for future investment. The first already large fund, it will be in 2007, of over a billion euros, is just given for gas infrastructure. An extremely favourable and positive sign for all of us, it is that we are extremely respected as an energy potential and as an organized energy community. All the countries in our environment, from Turkey to Slovenia, believe that Serbian energy is dominant in this part of Europe, and only this knowledge, with the adoption of this strategy, is what is very important, with the election of members of the Energy Agency. It is that we are here among the last in Europe, but if we have already had our sad history for the past ten years, that we have not been able to follow in the parallel of these events, I am telling you that this composition of the future Agency Council is the best composition that exists in the Balkan countries and that it is guaranteed that we will continue to work very effectively. The answer to another question that is not most important, which is how elected members of the Council are. Of course, they're not chosen according to whether it's an electrician or an oil industry. This isn't about such an esnafic choice. This is about who best knows and the marketable new conditions of the energy economy, who best knows technical and technological developments regarding all these integrations, who knows the economic relations well and who knows the legal legislation well. This way has just been achieved by the optimal choice of these people, and I hope that this assembly will soon have no need to declare some new laws in our energy field, because you have now circled everything we need for future progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-12-0.u14107	Resume session tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
