ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14108	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that a sufficient number of MPs for the work of the National Assembly are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Dejan Rajčić, Veroljub Stevanović, Radoslav Jovic and Istvan Ispanovic. You received a notice from the Serbian Radical Party that National MP Ostoj Stojanovic passed away on 5 March 2005 and a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, determines the end of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88, paragraph 8 of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time of the election of MP Ostoj Stojanovic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, on the day of his death on 5 March 2005. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on ELECTROPRIVREDI (together with the 15th and 23rd points) The Word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlović. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let the MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14109	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dragan Jovanovic, the mandated SPS representative on this agenda, and Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the SPS, presented our position on the documents under consideration today. Let me say it briefly in three questions. First, we have one personal continuity not only in this area but also in other areas in the public sector with crisis headquarters, which in one way, which I understand, but I do not justify, got a chance to manage systems or parts of the system in Serbia. It has not been done enough to distance one number of these people from important jobs in public enterprises after a while, and I think it burdens people who exercise power today in Serbia, the ministry, ministers and all others. I think that in the EPS and in general in the field of energy today there are a number of people who, completely past the criteria and beyond all the rules that should apply when responsibility is taken over for the management of important systems or parts of the system, stayed there. I don't dispute their political colors, but I am polluting with their expertise, with their good intentions and with the effects of what they are giving today in the public sector of Serbia. It's not a topic, but since we have restructuring as one of the important tasks in the field of energy and in all other areas, it's important that we know that this exists and that we haven't done enough that one number of people, who came here completely beyond the context of the criteria, outside the context of expertise, are thanking and saying that revolutionary justice has passed, whatever anyone thinks about it. But, I hope, Mr. Minister, I have in you a lot of professional and political confidence that you will be able to identify these phenomena and these people and eliminate them from important processes which, above all, concern the energy sector. That's the first question. The second question concerns one detail on page six of this document. I want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, to remind them and the MPs, 76% of the total energy balance when it comes to coal is in Kosovo and Metohija. I am deliberately talking today about this topic of great human and ethnic rights fighters and everyone else who treats them uncritically, not understanding the very essence of what is happening in Serbia and Kosovo. I want to say that fate, unfortunately, is difficult, Kosovo and Metohija and our citizens are determined by this fact, that at the level of the current coal exploitation in Kosovo for the next 500 years, continued production is possible, that whoever manages this resource can acquire a great wealth and control all other flows not only of business but also of political, unfortunately. I am saying this because a number of people make it easy to express qualifications regarding the situation in Kosovo, about the problems that have arisen there and how to solve these problems. So, once again, I remind the citizens of Serbia, they are not obliged to know, but it is my obligation to interpret exactly as you wrote in the document and for that I thank you – 76% of all resources, all energy balances when coal is in this country are in Kosovo and Metohija. In order to understand this better, gas and oil in Serbia's energy balance are participating with only 1%. So I've been obliged to say this not because I don't understand what this is about, but to try to get people to think about it this way, and that responsible people in Serbia, I choose myself and myself, with your permission, point to this circumstance and this fact, because the way to solve this issue will always be about this fact, however others translate it into ethnic, minority, historical, and I don't know what other rights. The third question, Mr. Minister, I brought here a folder, one of the most beautiful pictures of the most beautiful meaningaries in Serbia. It's the meanings of West Morava in the Ovcar-cablar ravine. There are two small power plants: Hydropower plant "Međuvrje" and Hydropower plant "Ovčar Banja". One is practically flowing, the other is with a certain accumulation, but a very weak force. These two power plants have been in the composition of the Drin power plants so far. According to the concept that exists, it seems to me that in this area a dependent company will be established in Serbia, which is at least what has come to us as information, where ′′Dirne power plants as such will cease to exist. ′′Drin power plants′′ participate with 10% in the total production of electricity in Serbia, ′′Limske′′ with two percent, other waste on large systems, on Đerdap and on those dealing with coal energy production. I want to point out that in this country everything that's Drinish is erased, everything that has the omens of Drin-free leave the scene in such a way that its name is lost. The Drina Division has been abolished. I talk about it all the time. Someone who worked on it knew exactly what he was doing. ′′Drine power plants have not only factically, they have symbolic and any other significance in Serbia. I'm not talking at all at this point about the importance of these power plants from the positions of the development of the Bay and other region that is gravitating Drini, but I'm talking about something else, about Drina as a symbol that, in a sense, should always be understood not as the spine of a country but as the spine of a nation, not the borders of a nation. Therefore, I would ask, if it is not a particular problem, organisational, essential, professional, energy, personal, there are also such, to remain ′′Drin power plants′′ as an addictive company. It has multiple meanings. That means something else to me. They're in one or another dependent company, they're going to produce electricity. For this people there and for the citizens of Serbia, there is another meaning, and I ask that with due attention, to the extent that we can, without jeopardising any other interest, remain the dependent company of the ′′Drin Power Plant, in formation that exists today or together with ′′Lim Power Plants′′.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14110	The word has a folk MP Branislav Stevanovic, and let the MP Slobodan Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14111	Ladies and gentlemen, by reading this proposal for a decision to establish a strategy for energy development by 2015, I have come to the conclusion that the authors of this proposal are none other than Mr Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Why do I say that at the very beginning? Because this strategy is still based on imports, in some future even bigger, electricity. We expected more than this proposal for the reason that we have received a lot of donations since 2000, however, these donations mainly ended in private pockets, not in electricity. In fact, about two billion euros were invested in electricity, and of that we could certainly build two coal thermal power plants and carry out all the repairs in existing thermal power plants and hydropower plants in Serbia. Therefore, very little has been invested in the electricity industry itself. In this proposal, the government does not want, at least while the authorities of this government, to invest absolutely nothing, except in some petty remonts. So he doesn't want to continue to build the Colubary B thermopower plant, or any of the other facilities we own. The natural resources that we possess, along with the hydropotentials that are only 50% used, which means that we have the possibility of building hydropower plants on the Drina, and also on the Danube – of which absolutely nothing, only some remont has been done or some minor revitalization of the plant, which is not enough for us at the moment, given how much resources we have spent for this time. Also, we need to be aware that our perspective is investing in coal thermal power plants, not, as recently advocated, gas thermal power plants, even one in Nis. Our priority must be coal, because we, gentlemen, know ourselves that 76% of total coal sites, unfortunately, are in Kosovo and Metohija, which is an unresolved issue. Therefore, in the future, we need to fight politically and first address the problem of Kosovo, so that we can have reserves for about seven centuries, to meet our needs and to be exporters of electricity, of course, from the cheapest energy - coal in the future. Of that, we have 14% of the total and we have 9% at Kolubara. When we talked about the Energy Act, Mr. Naumov, Minister of Energy, was present, now he's out, I don't know why, I've brought here an elaborate, a justification study, where it's said that we have in the Colubary 55-60 years to do the exploitation of surface coals, with an additional 700 megawatts of electricity, which we should build on Colubari B in Kalenić, which is what the gentlemen were saying yesterday. Two SPS representatives were talking about "Obrenovac," "Colabar B" and our perspective, what I'm about to say. In order to define ourselves for the production of coal electricity, we have two major problems. On one side, we have an import lobby, which we have talked about many times; and on the Survey Committee, there was a lot heard yesterday in the presentation of Mr. Vukic, who presented a lot of relevant facts here, documented, in front of MPs and the Serbian public. If I were to share all the data, something similar to what's going on at Kolubara and Obrenovec, I think it would take me a long time, and I'm going to use it some other time when I have more time and there's something like that. However, I will deal with some concrete proposals, in which we can, in a very short time, be exporters of electricity and not depend more on the mafia and on imports. A further problem arises for the exploitation of coal surfaces in Vreoc. Yesterday, Mr. Petronijevic spoke about the problem of Vreoc; it is the biggest environmental problem in Serbia; in the entire municipality of Lazarec, one percent, every tenth dies of cancer, which means that there is a far higher percentage, and there are no statistics on the health bulletin of people living there, and there are 7000-8000 residents. Mr. Minister, you have been invited by the President of the Lazarec municipality to attend a session of the Assembly of the Municipality, where it has unanimously decided to resolve the issue of the Vreco further coal exploitation, which is one of the key problems in our electricity industry and thus the environmental problem of Vreoc. You didn't answer that call, you didn't come, you didn't send an adequate personality to replace you, to address the public of Lazarets, to let Lazarets know what to do in the future. I therefore convey the decision of the Lazarec Municipality Assembly, which was unanimously taken by the council, to address the problem of Vreoc urgently, and the ecologically continued exploitation of coal, which means moving and expropriating land. I must point out that the largest coal deposits (Mr. Minister, you know it well) are located just below the Vreoc; means that the exploitation of coal from the surface of the Vreoc should take place for the next 25-30 years for these current capacities and the additional 700 megawatts planned for Colubary B. On the other hand, I said we had a problem -- a gas lobby, next to the import lobby we talked about a lot. A certain businessman of Serbian origin, an alleged patriot, wants to build a gas thermopower plant in Nis, out of personal interest. This would be disastrous for us because kilowatt is produced in a coal thermal power plant five times cheaper than kilowatts produced in TE on gas. Therefore, a certain gentleman can build five thermal power plants on gas, and that would be harmful to our poor economy anyway, and it would absolutely not suit us. The problem of Vreco should be dealt with urgently and further production of electricity should be directed towards coal, which would be necessary, as it is one of the first, fastest and cheapest investments "Colubara A", our first thermal power plant. Mr. Naumov, I spoke with the director of the Colubara Termo Power Plant, Mr. Jelic, we now have a concrete offer from a German firm, an Italian one. The German firm offers a 150m-euro loan to make 200 megawatts of replacement capacity, which means we have an existing infrastructure, with the boiler facility and the pipe system to be changed. So in the future, we could settle our needs and not be importers of electricity. That's a very good offer. If we didn't use this, something like this offered to us, you, Mr. Minister, and your government would be absolutely against this people. If we are in power, and we are planning in the near future, you will be one of the first to come to the wallpaper, and it is known how and in what way. For Kolubara B, which two speakers spoke about yesterday, we said 40% was invested, which is about 400m euros; it takes about 270m euros to invest in making the first 350mg block. In this way, in a very short time, we would be one of the solid exporters of electricity. I must also point out the advantages – The "Colubary B" thermal power plant is located on the surface spear, where we have reduced costs of transporting coal and solved the problem of moving away, which means that we have extremely favourable conditions for construction. We have an offer from a Czechoslovakia firm, and I think it's a shame, which offers to invest for further work. Your youngest minister, Mr. Ilic, said in public and in the daily press these days that he intends to build and announce the continuation of the work at Colubary B, which we expect. However, the proposal on the development strategy does not stand exactly when you plan to continue work, at any location and strength. Here you have created a flat-rate strategy, so it is not clear what you want and whether this government wants to invest in electricity at all. So, there is still a question of the import lobby, and it continues to be decided by Mr Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Gentlemen, we must certainly build on the further development of our energy on coal and coal power plants. What I'm saying is, this is where the gas thermoelectrics are favored, in that sense, to mention the environmental laws that we've passed here, four laws. I'm saying that's not true, because by installing an electrofilter on the chimneys of a coal thermoelectric power plant, we solve the problem of clean air. I can give you a concrete proposal to solve environmental problems in our country. Here, I'll give you an example of the Great Crlens – here we have in diameter of 10 kilometers over 12,000 households. If we heatify that population, we drastically reduce the pollution coefficient, and also at other locations, such as Obrenovac, Kostolac, etc. Thus, by building some more heat, we solve a major problem of pollution in our environment. Therefore, this finding cannot stand – that gas power plants are a priority compared to coal thermal power plants. When we talked about the Energy Act, I asked a number of questions, and you didn't do well to answer. I'm not going to deal with what the Bureau has already done and what we've heard. Let me just ask you, when the hair bridges were burning, which is the structures that make the supply, i.e. the transport of coal to the boiler plant itself, there was an obstruction in Obrenovac, the Great Creves and Vreocs and it was a stalemate for over a year, which means that at that time the import lobby had a clear task of importing as much electricity as possible, and there was an obstruction of the production of electricity. I'm going to ask you five questions, and if Mr. Secretary doesn't answer me, I'm going to ask it to be a parliamentary question and I need an adequate answer. I want to know, and the public to know, what you're planning on doing with Columbar A and whether you'll accept the German firm's offers. Then when are you planning on continuing your work at Colubary B? Furthermore, the solution to the hot dog issue continues to exploit coal. How much electricity did we import in 2004? The fifth question – how many and what companies are you planning to isolate from the EPS when restructuring the Elektroprivreda? In the end, I would suggest that the government start working a little bit in the interests of the people, so that you allow us to export electricity, and we have great chances; then, agricultural products, textiles, etc. I mean, unfortunately, in the last two decades, we've only been exporting experts, athletes and patriots. Gentlemen, I don't think that's much of an export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14112	The word has the Minister of Energy Naumov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14113	Dear MP Stevanović has asked several questions which are more or less professional and are not exactly questions for this home, but since it is of interest to the public, and he has thus asked in this style as if it were a certain, let me say, man can see as some provocation, so it is not to fall for that provocation, but I simply believe that the questions are the ones that you... So, first of all, I respect, of course, the concern of MEP Stevanović for our future of coal production, i.e. electricity. I can say that both the EPS and the Ministry are considering variations and possibilities to achieve plans and meet the needs of industry and population. So there's also the Hot Ones, and Colubary A and Colubary B. I'm even emotionally bound to this ′′Collubara, because I personally received these facilities that are from "Scoda". We get to know each other very well and everything is under control. Be assured there's really no import lobby here. As for imports in 2004, you know that it is extremely reduced compared to the previous period, so even with what was exported it made a certain balance and we have this winter at zero. As for the EPS separation, the government adopted a restructuring programme, which will be implemented this year. You know, according to that program, and from the many shows we've had, there's no plan to fire the workers. There is only an allocation plan, as I said in the opening statement, non-productive actions from the EPS and their relationship with the EPS are very defined in financial and business terms; and the union is very successfully discussed and I can indeed argue that there will be no problems in this respect this year and neither in the coming years nor in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14114	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlović, and let the MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14115	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with what the minister last said about this speaker yesterday, which is that the Agency for Energy and the Council of the Agency was formed in the fastest possible way. Mr. Minister, I don't think this finding stands, because in your dynamics implementing reforms and implementing priorities in Serbia's energy sectors, it says that the Energy Agency will be formed in 2004. I remind you we're already in the second quarter of 2005. What am I talking about? The Democratic Party welcomes and commends a positive feasibility study, but insists on speed. It cost us, and you can best tell the citizens of Serbia and MPs whether hundreds of thousands of euros can be measured every day, which have not come from Europe because we did not have the Agency, because we have not yet done a bunch of things that Europe has prescribed and that we have been able to bring. If this was due to political trade or other causes, which are minor to the importance of everything we would get from the establishment of the Agency in 2004, and for which you had the support of the majority in parliament, I think it's your responsibility. Also, in your last appearance, you said that an esnafic solution was brought to the Agency's Council, which has a lot of objections, which we didn't want to talk about, personal solutions. But the general assessment yesterday was that it was a professional political biography, that it was a professional biography that had nothing to do with energy problems and that it was a very modest professional biography. I don't see anything esnafic, specifically, in order to be able to believe that this Energy Agency will produce some results in the challenges that await us in the coming period. You also said yesterday that the Ministry of Energy and this government are without an affair. Here I have prepared a set of questions for you and your ministry, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which triggers affairs and affairs that are not for improvisation. First of all, yesterday, Mr. Vukic spoke of the means for propaganda, representation and donations of the oil industry of Serbia. Mr. Vukic made a mistake, or he didn't say exactly what he said about the 57 million spent in 10 months last year, that 50 million was over. It is not true, Mr. Vukic, that the money was spent by the official of the post, Zeljko Popovic. The money was spent by the director of public relations Tomislav Micevic, and Mr. Zeljko Popovic spent an additional 33 million dinars with his assistant Cvikic Smiljko. It's one small correction, but I think it's a big NIS affair. It is also an affair that the contract was concluded in 1702/2005, without publication of the tender, with the firm "Profile" from Belgrade (contract No. 45-46) to 32 million 174 thousand and 800 dinars, plus value added tax, for production, photography and lease of space, billboards, so I ask whether this was necessary for NIS and whether it is something that is cutting with rational business and management of the funds that Serbian citizens need to know about. I'm also asking you -- is it an affair or an affair when a 50m-euro loan was taken from the Hypo Bank by the NIS, without any previous financial and economic analysis, provided that 20% of traffic is made through this bank for 10 years, and what is the cost of that loan, if we know that the daily turnover of NIS is approximately two million euros? Were you familiar with that and is this an affair? I would also mention another question that was possible, which is likely to have been prevented, or yet someone has come to my senses – in May 2004, I am free to say - NIS's pest management, with your blessing, signed a protocol on co-operation with the Slovenian company ′′Peterol′′. This has been done, although ′′Peterol's letter clearly shows their intention to take over the management of the complete retail network of NIS, i.e. the market. Pressure has currently stalled the implementation of this protocol, but it remains unclear whether this is the way to protect the company's interest in this national company. There is also a possible affair, i.e. the question – why is the job of voluntary pension insurance "Dunavu" legally assigned for unfounded reasons annulled? On whose behalf? And who's supposed to get a job in a renewed tender? We know who needs it, and we know who's headed to NIS, and I think you know it too. I also ask you if the Law on Conflict of Interest has been violated, when we know that a contract, amounting to millions of dinars, has been concluded for the education of NIS management at the Agency, advisers to Mr Kostunica, Mr Simic. Is it an affair -- personnel apartments? Is 13,000 euros for the daily need for travel by NIS management? Now I'm going to go back a little bit to geology and mining, about a strategy that hasn't processed the availability of resources that are the basis for the development of energy. The strategy states that between 2009 and 2012, a thermal power plant should be built and an open surface copy of the capacity of eight megatons of coal, which can only be considered as fixed by time, place and means, but therefore, the period until 2009 is quite optimistic. The issue of restructuring of public enterprises in the area of coal exploitation has also been left out, where a social programme for the apparent surplus of employees, with the dynamics of its realisation, needs to be envisaged. Another question deserves an answer – why is the possibility of using oil shale in the Alexine Basen completely abandoned, as a primary source? Regarding monitoring the realisation and harmonising of the strategy's priorities in this respect, it is proposed that the resolution ministry organise a expert team to monitor the implementation of the strategy and set up a council on energy for the Republic of Serbia. I am responsibly saying that the efforts in this direction are unnecessary, since neither the existing state authorities within their sectors, and above all I am referring to the resolution ministry, are doing what the Law on State Administration and Ministries tells them to do. And the existence of inter-resor committees and councils, although they represent good instruments for improving the work and development of certain areas, would be a luxury and unnecessary cost, since the already existing forms of such work show extreme non-productivity. First of all, I think of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the restructuring of public enterprises, whose activity and indifference is at least worrying. The president of that commission is Mr. Labus, and I think he is directly responsible for a year and a half of the delay in the restructuring process both in the EPS and we see it very well and in the oil industry of Serbia. What began in 2002, with a clear vision and intention to make it easier and to get into restructuring as early as possible, stopped by changing power in 2003, or 2004 and even went backwards. You have as many examples as you want. A colleague earlier said, from ′′Colubare′′, instead of reducing, by leaving some companies, i.e. companies from the frame of the company ′′Colubara′′, the number of workers has increased. We don't know if it's for 900 thousand, 500 or 2.5 thousand workers, and you have to answer that question. The workers know it well and should say how difficult it will be now. So much announced restructuring of public enterprises, restructuring of ′′Colubare′′ is difficult, compared to the period 2002-2003 when we started something; as a responsible government, you should have continued this, but it couldn't, and I'll tell you why. The ministries within the government are organised as a state in the country. Each ministry has won, under a coalition agreement, its own intelligence and has no control, even the ruling majority, within the framework of the ministries. Within the framework of the ministries, the principle of organising public enterprises is based on the feudal principle. I've told many times, every time I go out for a pay phone, that local powers and politics are mixed up in the management of public enterprises, which you, Mr. Minister, know well and who these people and those who earn, who have no idea what they do and what I'm talking about. I think they should know that they should not touch where the profession is priority, where the interest of the state is priority, not some local powermaker in his feed that determines the top of the EPS and the top of the ministry that he will put in certain places, even make decisions on how to implement it. These are strategic decisions, which we will pay in the next decades. These are people who don't deserve to be where they are and who have to be publicly called and called to account. Politically powerful, there's an example of it all you want. For example, in the King when the seat of Telekom was built several years ago in the King, where it came to life, it moved to Kragujevac, because the King does not have in the ruling majority a political lobby or an MP's lobby strong enough to stand up to it. You are well aware that the same attempt was made in this House to move "Electro Serbia" from Kragujevac to Kragujevac. You know very well, and you worked on it at the Institute, as I recall, that 36 years of the existence of Elektro Serbia in the Kingdom guarantees an efficient, good work, an organization that is founded and has its own history and future. Why move her to Kragujevac? Because Mr Verko Stevanović hired an MP lobby from Kragujevac and signed it. The profession, Serbia's Elektroprivreda and all the commissions that did it showed the opposite, but we will see if they will win politics or waist. It was also necessary for the strategy to provide for measures and means for its implementation, as well as the economic and administrative consequences of the energy sector reform, in phases, in the short and long term, which has not been done. What is very important, and there is no strategy, or even not in the process of its adoption, is the public in the work. When we talk about the public in the work, we think about the fact that in developed EU countries, public participation in decision-making is meant for the energy sector. The necessary information and information should be presented publicly. Do we know today what's going on with the restructuring process, except for these short pay phone trips, where we're trying in a very short time to show the public what's going on? Do we know how far it has come, which is why the resolution ministry in the process is a mere executioner of the ideas and interests of business policy of public enterprises and interest groups outside them? Why has the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not determined the strategic interests of the state in the oil, electricity and mining sectors? Since developments on the ground are going much faster than what the strategy is trying to represent as processes that are yet to come, everything goes far from the eyes of the public, which is unacceptable, because energy resources must not be divided by a coalition agreement; or they are, and so we are in this area also getting the fate of a strategy in air traffic, in NIS and so on. There is an even long range of objections to this strategy proposal, which is not to mention the quality of energy supply and energy supply; unnecessary favouring of expensive energy, for us inaccessible energy from renewable energy sources, due to the high cost of use. Finally, there is another concern about the proposed strategy, concerning the formation of the Energy Agency, two issues, i.e. two examples for the Ministry, for the Government, for the public. I ask you for an EPS debt to the Czech Republic by "Egada" of 68 million dollars and a "Scode Export" 142, totalling 210 million dollars, which is a debt to ′′Colluber B′′, and is a debt outside the Paris and London Club, whether at the end of 2004 the firm HIP Trade bought a total debt of 210m euros for 48.5m euros, which the EPS Management Board accepted as information. So much of the survey committee, which took a lot of public attention last year, showed who it is that can trade debts at the level of Europe, who is the one paid to pay 48.5 million dollars and what it intends to do with that debt. I'm asking you frankly, who owns the HiP Trade, if you know? Another thing that is current at the moment is about a strike in the Panchevo Refinery and an oil shortage already present at pumps in Serbia. On Friday and Saturday, on two occasions, once 400 tonnes, the second time 500 tonnes of Euro diesel, divided only by priority, from the New Sad oil refinery was exported to the ERG company. According to us, this is the company of one of the related persons, Mr. Novakovic, and this delivery was directly approved by NaP Director Bosko Vukirević, with the approval of the government's representative under the DSS. I'm asking you if this is true, in our knowledge it is, and whether these are two small or large affairs that will shake up your ministry, or this government, which is always boasting that the government is without an affair. As we can see, in addition to this, there could be a number of similar examples, data and facts that would indicate a great abuse in the business of public enterprises. Let me remind you that there is a lack of respect for the Law on Public Procurement in all public enterprises, even by the Ministry; I urge the Ministry of Finance to respond to complaints about the protection of bidders and that you see it clearly once. I think sooner or later this will come to the agenda of the judiciary and we'll face it, and you'll have to answer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14116	The word has the Minister of Mining and Energy Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14117	Dear MPs, first let me start at the end. The strike at the Panchevo Refinery is frozen. There won't be any intervention imports. It's really hard for me to answer what my esteemed colleague Mihajlovic put forward, who I really thought was an excellent engineer, such a repertoire of some half-knowledge. Well, I did, too, when I was an MP, wonder if I could talk like that from a pay phone, but good. I'll just say that his performance just confirmed that this government had no affair, as I said yesterday. All that we've heard, not that it's not affairs, it's some business decisions, which are all regularly implemented, and whether they're right or not, it's a matter of certain bodies to determine, if they should be established. So, all we've heard is that these are all the normal business decisions that a particular firm has made, and not only was that known to this company, but the government was involved in that, and it was. So, if there was this Hippo Alpe Adria bank, what do you think someone under the grain was doing something? It's a very serious thing, it's done on a number of levels and comprehensively. It's not worth talking about. What I'm saying is that I'm also amazed by the certain hypocrisy of that group that is now an opponent to the strategy or the Agency's Council. The instructions are as an example – we are late, we are late and we will not arrive in time in Europe, because we did not respect certain timing, and they will now vote against this agency and against the strategy. So we have another year to be late to go to Europe, and where consistency is, it's amazing. I will not respond to other remarks, because they reaffirm that this strategy is a great document and that as soon as we develop it, we will get programmes and under these programmes we will give answers to all key energy issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14118	The People's Messenger Bojan Kekic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14119	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, since in several discussions I have convinced myself that you are answering the questions of MPs who are interested in a certain part of it, I have changed the concept of my presentation. I'm going to talk a little bit about restructuring public enterprises, since I come from Pogorec, and that's a very interesting place, first of all, as far as Kostolac is concerned. I'll ask you a few questions. I'll talk about the Energy Agency Council. If you can and if you are in a position, please explain to me a little bit about the distribution centres, which are already formed or formed, i.e. the principle decisions have been made, since Požarec is one distribution centre, because ′′Electro Morava′′ covers two counties – Braničevski and Podunavski. The rationalisation and restructuring of public state-owned enterprises is conducted on demand and under the pressure of many European institutions, and above all on the condition of the IMF. The professional services of state-owned enterprises and consulting houses have conducted a study on restructuring by placing emphasis on the separation of secondary activities in public state-owned enterprises. The data suggests that in 31.12.2004, some 137,000 workers worked in public enterprises, such as EPS, NIS, ZTP, PTT and others. Today, we are talking about some 60,000 workers who will certainly happen and adopt this strategy. I don't think that's at all controversial, as far as we're concerned by the SPS. The main question that can be asked to the Government and the resolution ministers is whether it is even known how many workers should leave public state-owned enterprises, whether the total number of workers who are surpluses in these enterprises have been identified, whether single criteria of reorganisation and rationalisation have been established, whether representative trade unions of public enterprises, as representatives of employed workers, have given consent to the solutions offered or whether this process is being selectively carried out from enterprise to enterprise, from ministry to ministry. So, under what conditions and by what criteria are surplus workers set out in public state-owned enterprises, and is there a social programme for people who will be jobless as a technological surplus? According to what we heard from the representatives of the EPS workers' union, the objective of restructuring and reorganisation is to weaken and fully degrade the EPS, followed by accelerated privatisation. According to the EPS trade union estimates, in this year, the media reportedly transmitted (I underline this that the media has transferred), out of 47,958 EPS workers, through the formation of new companies, will be aware of a number of conditions for some 40,000 employees, which means that more than 7,000 workers are coming out of the EPS based on this basis. Yesterday, on the Legislative Committee, I asked the minister, it was handled with data that the EPS should remain with 28,000 employees in the coming years; the data was known to the minister, and he does not know where that data came from, and I have checked it, it is direct data from the president of the EPS Trade Union, who made a statement, Mr Kovacevic. The process of reorganisation is carried out without a defined social programme and signed collective agreements, in other words, this phase of rationalisation takes place under the system to be taken or left. If the worker does not want to move to a newly established company, he is offered an alternative solution within the framework of an existing job system, which is mostly below the employee qualification, which is likely to be declared a technological surplus in the second round. It is said that the formation of new EPS companies should ensure more efficient work in the core activity, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, newly formed enterprises, which are the founders of EPS, public enterprises should be able to make themselves self-marketable. One of the debaters said it was a cheaper process of production, and I'm asking what about VAT if this particular company is doing a favor for the EPS. Contracts have been made on EPS commitments towards newly formed enterprises for two to four years, but the question is whether this is sufficient guarantee for workers who move to newly formed enterprises, where most of the boards have company founders, i.e. parts of the EPS, and will certainly implement the policy that suits them most. The fact is that at some point these companies will be subject to privatisation, i.e. sales. Then what happens to employees and their rights, when they come out of the EPS the way they came out, or without certain rights. You know that in the previous days in Kostolc 52 employees of the surface digger, Kostolac (they are geological professions) began a hunger strike because they did not want to leave the EPS, believing that geology is leading to basic mining work. And when technologically looked at how the Boner develops, it could never develop without the role of geodetics. Employees of geological professions are not against reorganisation, but they believe that moving to a newly formed enterprise does not have any guarantees for the future. A few days ago, a contract was signed, or agreement, so this problem was resolved. The Socialist Party of Serbia is on the view that only through shared action can ensure the safety of employees on a number of grounds and this is a guarantee that future privatisations cannot be carried out with little money, i.e. without the consent of shareholders, employees in public enterprises or their newly established companies. In addition, experiences of the current privatisation course in Serbia show that successful privatisations were conducted only where workers had their actions. Otherwise, it can easily happen that, for some time, alongside workers who will be declared a technological surplus, workers in newly established EPS companies also come into a similar situation when the privatisation process begins. It's a real example of the Standard costume company, with about 35 employees. Once this company was part of the EPS, it was singled out in a third-round company; today employees in the company do not receive or receive earnings at all in time, and the company is located before the privatisation process without any guarantees from the social programme. I'm afraid other companies, like Prim, Transport, Costolac, Georad, which I was just talking about, don't come into the same situation as Standard. So the point is, after so many years, these workers get a number of shares from the state and thus control their own privatisation. With the minister very specific answers to questions, I would have a few questions. What about "The Bones," will research continue compared to "Cyrikovac", "Klennik", given that 1,600 workers will be out of work in a year or two? What is in the area of gasification, i.e. we know that ′′Energogas′′ has certain gasification rights, but many teams and many professional services visit Serbia, especially the municipalities, offering their overall assistance under the gasification. Will Kosovo's energy balances enter the Republic of Serbia? I apologize that my colleagues did not leave me time, but I just have to comment on the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia; there is MP Matic who participated with me in forming a municipal authority in Pozarevec. One principled question, knowing the miners, I think all miners will be angry about why the president of the Agency's Council is a machineman and he's not a miner. The third thing, Minister, I have to ask you specifically - don't you see that certain ministries led by representatives of the G17, specifically I mean the Ministry of Finance, are destroying our public enterprises, specifically EPS? And as for the candidate Predrag Makar, who is a boardman at SO Pogorec, he did not want to give support to your coalition partner, or DSS, on this list, and we from the SPS had to form power as we formed. After four years, the Democratic Party is the first time out of power in the municipality of Pogorec, so I think your relationship with the DSS and with the G17 should be reconsidered and re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14120	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14121	I'll start from the last, just like last time, as far as Macar and our relationship with G17 are concerned, but I'll go back to the SPS. You know, for the Agency's Council, Mr. Aca Markovic was proposed, and I suggested him as a great and good expert. Aca Markovic was the director of the 1990s and some years, and in this team the director participated in my shift as director of the "Nikola Tesla" Institute, but it was not an obstacle for me to propose him as an expert in this agency. It's about this thing. Of course, Kostolac represents a solid beochug in our energy system and is very much cared for. Research will continue for Kirikovac and there will be no problem. Kosovo – very well in the strategy we included what Kosovo means to us. We said it was a top priority, a state interest, not only because of national and other interests but also because of these energy and economic interests. That's why we've limited the strategy to 10 years, so that in time, it can refresh itself when these resources get involved. For us in the strategy are not unknown their resources and capabilities, productive and others. The unknown is in the consumer sector, because we have no insight into it and it would be completely illogical to treat it now. That's why the strategy can be renovated in 3-4 years and it's not a sacred letter. Gasification is a very serious problem. I mentioned that yesterday, taking care of the entire central Serbia, since more or less space has been shut down above Sava and Danube. As for distributions and distribution centres, it is a very serious analysis and I think that all the parameters used for this, from technical equipment, economics, information preparation, repairs, materials, all will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14122	Replica, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14123	I am not in favour of the topic from the locals being extended to the debate on certain laws, although it should be acknowledged that it is impossible, simply, we are living people, that something that in such a way does not cause such a reaction, even when it comes to the vote of the Agency's Council. However, this does not in any way justify the SPS and the SRS to form power in Pogorevc with Karic's party and to be on the principles of the division of prey, not on some of the principles that we have identified and where we were trying to include the G17 Group, not only them, but all the committee groups belonging to the ruling coalition at the republican level, in order to balance and make the city and municipality of Povarec a place that will have its perspective. I say, unfortunately, and I'm still behind it. Repercussion can happen in this congregation as well. What is important for the fire area is the preservation of a large power distribution centre, especially because at 11 kilometers from Pogorec you have the main EPS, after ′′Colubare′′ the largest energy complex – Kostolac. As for restructuring, I'll use this replica to add something else. I fully understand the uncertainty that follows every restructuring in the public sector in Serbia, but I cannot not praise the government's courage to go there once. The confirmation of that courage is yesterday's positive for the feasibility study. But it should also be said that many abuse it, especially some out-of-parliamental parties that bully workers, and there is this uncertainty, which in no way can be a constructive factor in order to have a rational, efficient energy system. I think it's the only way of the EPS and I'm asking the minister to continue in that direction, taking into account everything that's heard from the MPs. I ask you, Minister, on behalf of all DSS MPs, if there is any indication that there is a crime or abuse of office in the EPS, in energy, in NIS, to take all the measures that should be taken from our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14124	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14125	Each MP shall have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure if his violation occurs, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the fact that when the MP comes out for this speaker, he is to speak the truth. There was obviously a mention of a prey in local self-government here, and someone wants to present it so that people are placed in SO Fireman on the basis of political belongings. That is not true, and whoever said that about this speaker should consider it well, because from his party, meaning from the Democratic Party of Serbia, at present there are three directors of public enterprises or public institutions. The position of the Serbian Radical Party on human resources policy is that unless we have better personnel or personnel to produce the same result, we do not go on the party line but on the expert one. I don't understand why someone in this congregation wants to portray it as something negative. I guess we all strive for all public enterprises to do the best they can, both in local self-government and in the Republic of Serbia. And as for the Fireman municipality, I'm sorry that the DSS lost power in the Fireman municipality with its own guilt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14126	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what your motives are, Mr. Kekic, for nothing, to criticise the Minister of Finance. I remind you that Mr Dinkic introduces order in the area of public finances, that he has domestic money and creates conditions to make and work healthy and earn money, and that the state helps the poor, the sick. As far as the budget of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, you know well that in 2003 the budget deficit amounted to 43 billion dinars, in 2004, 22 billion, and now almost gone in 2005. Also, you know very well that the state of Serbia has received a credit rating. It is also known that we are creditworthy to repay foreign debts while the state is paying back internal debts – this is a loan for Serbia's rebirth and old foreign savings. We also know that, at the initiative of the Minister, the Agency for the Insurance of Residential Loans was established. It's not much, but it's starting to work. Also, we have a loan announcement for the unemployed. In one word, conditions are being created for the greater arrival of investments in our country. The introduction of VAT reduced the grey economy. So these are all the merits of the finance minister, but all these things and the good functioning of the finance ministry mean a good functioning of the government as a whole. As for the restructuring of public enterprises, it is clear that it is necessary to do so. It is clear that neither they nor others can spend more than planned for the current year. It is clear that the finance minister must react if they have spent their salaries for the planned year in October. Of course, he wants order in this area too, because it also concerns public finances. What's very important is that everything I've said is written in a positive assessment of the feasibility study. All that seems to be in the Ministry of Finance, in terms of introducing order and functioning of the system, is actually a positive signal for joining our country to the European Union. We'll continue on that path, anyway. That there are more ministers like that, I wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14128	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14129	I'm sorry if I'm wasting someone's time, but I don't belong in a circle of MPs who often abuse this pay phone, but I only use my right to replicate. I will use this replica to remind the public that Mr. Arsic, an MP of the SRS, is sitting here, who has trampled everything his leaders say about this speaker. Namely, he and his council members in the municipality of Pogorec contributed to the establishment of the congregation majority by reaching the congregation's majority in other people's terms, i.e. the so-called DS and G17 plus strike. That's the truth. Please, if you're already bringing some of your truths here, let's hear the other side. Don't be angry if it is completely contrary to the principles we can hear from both Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mr Vukic. So these are some of our fire truths. Unfortunately, this power does not set the principles that we have been building in Pozarevec and the municipality since 2001, but it is only the principle of the division of power, where you have one extraparliamentary party, the Bogoljub Karic party, which completely goes past all the political principles of a wild population, violates the harmony that can be created in the fire municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14130	National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14131	I wonder on what basis he got the right to a replica. I don't know what the gentleman's talking about. The first was the coalition created between the SPS, the DSS and the SRS, which makes up out of 68 committees 35. I wouldn't talk about other people's mandates if a man who's a candidate for the president of the Assembly didn't get voted by a councilman from his committee group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14132	The word is from MP Bojan Kekic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14133	I have to say, I had no intention of challenging a replica, or telling a story at all. I'd have to say the minister didn't understand me at all. I didn't mention Dr. Acu Markovic at all in some context. I mentioned, lucky there are Matic and Arsic, only Predrag Makara. Our wish was to rephrase the Serbian Parliament in the municipality of Pogorjevac. Expensive Macar, and here's the candidate in front of the G17, he didn't want to vote, and that was that slow 35. Matic was elected one moment as speaker of the assembly, the next day he was no longer. I didn't want any replica. You all know that the SPS in Pogorevec has certainly had the highest number of councilors in 15 years. In 2001, we had more committees than everyone else combined, but we left power for a year and a half, two days and in 2003 we returned to power. We're glad we're working now. If there were more brains, they would certainly not have been in the municipality of Pogorec today with the Karics, but with the DSS, that is, that the G17, who in the meantime disbanded its board, voted for the story, would have finished the job. As for the presentation of counterpart Albianic, I had no idea that I was attacking Minister Dinkic. I'm in very correct relations with everyone from the finance ministry and we're also trying around the municipalities' budgets to finish the job, but the fact is that the finance minister didn't allow an increase in electricity prices. That's all I've ever thought about, if that's what you want me to be honest with you. As for the division of prey in the municipality of Pogorec, that's what the best citizens have said. Here, for 15 years, the SPS has been out there picking up prey, sharing prey, and it's always in power. I don't know when or who's gonna take us down.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14134	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the second day in this joint discussion of three documents. The first is the draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act, then the proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia and is the third proposal for a strategy for energy development by 2015. I'll take a quick look at the first and third documents, and I won't talk about the second. As far as the first document is concerned, today it may be a historic day, because this proposal (which is likely to be adopted, because there is probably most of it) abolishes or develops the largest system Serbia has ever had, and that is the EPS. According to this proposal, the entry into force of this law on 30 June 2005 ceases the work of the JP EPS and forms two new public enterprises. First, again with the same name, the EPS, which will cover the activities of electricity production, electricity distribution and the management of the distribution system and electricity trade. The second company, with a new name -- Serbia's Elektro Network, is also a public company, and it will carry out activities of electricity transmission and transmission system management. Of course, this is a decision by the Serbian government, the parliamentary majority, and it is difficult to fight it. However, I, to put it this way, was intimidated by Mr. Baralic's statement that, in fact, this decision will cease to exist as such by JP "Drin hydropower plants". In this energy development strategy, it says nicely that all today's electricity and electricity companies will be educated as one complex functional holding company and will be economically independent in the coming period and deal with special financial accounts. From this I conclude that all companies, energy producers and distributors will continue to live as they have done so far, as companies that will be independent in their business and accounting, so it leads me astray with this statement by Mr Baralic. I'd like the minister to explain whether there's something behind this that we don't see here, we can't read from these documents that we have available. As for the energy development strategy in Serbia by 2015, I must say that this document is quite extensive, consisting of several segments. But what's generally controversial here is that this document is mostly hypothetical. What does that mean? This means that we made one picture, and we didn't know in advance the framework in which we're going to place it, so the question is where we're going to put this picture if a strategy is ever made for Serbia's development as a state, which had to be a prerequisite for making all other strategies. I cannot accept the development of a strategy for energy development before the creation of a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia. I am informed that there seems to be, in the process of developing agriculture, public information and other strategies, so I am not clear why the Government, and this is a question for the Government, did not approach the creation of a complex substance, i.e. a strategy for the development of an economy or the development of a complete Serbia, so that these border strategies are based on these individual branches of our economy or other activities. What is important in all these strategic documents is to reach a consensus of all political entities present today in Serbia, which are relevant, important, but also other authorities that are not political. We must stand behind these documents, not that one narrow congregation majority adopts strategic documents. I don't think that's good, because the situation is going to change very quickly, the second majority will come, the second government will come, and after two years we'll have to give up this strategy, this document, and we'll go to some new strategy and other document, and perhaps the radical change of these views that this government has proposed in this document. As far as the document itself is concerned, it has several segments, and I will look back at three segments, which seem to be most important to me. This first segment is about the state of energy at the end of 2002, which is the current state of Serbia's energy; the second segment is the objectives of the strategy; the third segment are the priority programmes of this strategy. I think that's the most important thing. In all this, this first segment is the best quality, because it represents the practical state in which the Republic of Serbia's energy today is located. All aspects of consumption, production and energy resources at the disposal of the Republic of Serbia are well explained here. I'm just going to look back on these things for a little while. Table 1.1 contains a trend in production, imports and energy consumption in Serbia. This is the state of the energy consumption sector, and this table clearly shows that if industrial consumption of final energy is looked at, that the trend is decreasing, and that's what worries all of us and what needs to worry, of course, the government. This means that the industry is becoming a smaller energy consumer, i.e. we have not yet stepped on as far as the Serbian industry is concerned. You can't see from all this when it will be and when industry will recover and become a more significant energy consumer. This is an indicator of the state of the industry in the Republic of Serbia. Also, this table shows a trend in import dependence, where import dependence is seen as increasing year by year, and it is also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia from the energy aspect. Here it is confirmed that, apart from the food industry, production activities in energy-intensive industries, other than those of energy-intensive industries, such as black and colored metallurgy and other activities, are very slow to recover. What's worrying about electricity here is the share of the household category in total electricity consumption. In fact, the data that 65% of electricity consumes the household sector is very worrying. We see from this analysis that, apart from Bulgaria, Serbia is the only country where such high participation of the household sector is in total electricity consumption. As for the state of production and energy resources of the Republic of Serbia, the situation is also worrying, because Serbia as a state of energy is very poor. It is clear and said here, although I will repeat, many predecessors have already said that – other than lignite, which is available in quantities that are sufficient for Serbia for a long time, all other energy resources are extremely poor and Serbia is relying on imports. What is also important, it is a hydropotential, which is still under-exploited, has not been fully exploited, although most of that potential is currently in the purpose of energy production, but remains a rather good space to further use the hydropotential of the Republic of Serbia by building new hydro-powered capacities. Also, a review of renewable energy sources has been made. It seems to me that it's quite shy here and that it was necessary to pay more attention to these renewable energy sources. This is what we can and should use more in the next period. These are the sources that are being restored, using them doesn't stop, like the ones we mostly use today. I think that in this strategy more attention should have been given to these energy sources or concrete forms and ways to exploit them in the next period. I think it's quite shy and very short, just in one sentence, said that here two raw materials are not balanced in this proposal; these are nuclear, due to insufficient geological projections of the terrain, and oil spikes. I think that this government in this document needed to be more explicit about nuclear raw materials, that is, nuclear energy in the coming period, and to make it more clear what the government's position is, whether, in some near future, it will be going to build such objects, such capacities. I think it should have been said loudly and clearly that this is not Serbia's strategic commitment and that it shouldn't be, that we don't stay in any doubt whether and when the government will make a decision to move on and on. In this first segment, there is also a reference to certain restrictions that are present in the business and development of Serbia's energy sector, and I will look back on just so-called. economic and energy constraints which are subject to inadequate electricity prices. So it's about prices and I just want to look back on that segment. Since 2000, electricity prices have increased in Serbia at least 10 times. I think the level that was present earlier as an EPS request has been exceeded for the average cost of kilowatt-hour electricity to be about five U.S. cents. I think it's on average now and more than five cents, and it's not clear why we're still talking about the price of electricity as one restriction on energy development. Also, huge funds in the previous four years have arrived in Serbia through donations or loans for the revitalisation of energy plants and capacities, so I don't understand why we are still talking about the threat of these capacities if they are revitalised and if such funds are invested in them. I also don't understand, when we talk about the price of electricity, whether all the internal reserves of these public enterprises within the EPS are used, whether there are any problems, extra labour, whether there are irrational costs. I believe that internal reorganisation and rationalization can provide a good part of these funds from both the companies themselves and these energy prices that we have today. The information I possess is that the state of energy collection from consumers is very weak and the latest data shows that consumers in Serbia owe the EPS about 36 billion dinars. This is an alarming information for me. By 2000, it was at a level of close to two billion, I think, which means that 20 times the consumer's debt to the EPS has been increased. I think it is inadmissible and cannot be asked for an increase in energy prices if this discipline is not introduced at the same time and does not charge for what has been delivered to consumers. We can't go now to the expense of those who regularly pay, raise the price and cover the cost of production, and some who are messy paid to keep them so that they stay in that status for years. You see, 36 billion is a big deal. That's close to five million euros. It's a number that's not for underestimation in the EPS, it's a very significant number and it needs to do everything to put it into function, to charge those funds, not just to go to an increase in price. In this first part, there remains a problem between Kosovo and Metohija. Since Kosovo and Metohija has our largest resource or our most binding lignite reserves in Serbia, representing over 75% of our total reserves, we as a state must take a clear stance and make a strategy to address the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, this is a question for the Serbian government. Last year, the Serbian government went to the Assembly with one plan to solve Kosovo and Metohija, which was unanimously adopted here and accepted by all MPs, but I don't see what was done, or the government has no longer shown up in the Assembly to at least bring us out what was going on under that plan, as far as it came, whether anything was done or not. The government must have a clear strategy on Kosovo and Metohija, so this energy strategy can also rely on the lignite reserves we have in Kosovo and Metohija. The second segment is the objectives of this strategy, and here two basic objectives are clearly set out in the strategy, as permanent and long-term energy development targets in the Republic of Serbia. The first goal is Serbia's active participation in the planning and construction of strategic regional and pan-European oil and gas infrastructures from new sources of supply, including the emergency construction of a underground gas storage facility in Serbia. The second goal is to find a strategic partner for planning, building and using new development-capital and regional-strategic power facilities on the border rivers (about Danube and other rivers), including joint investments with strategic partners in new lignite-based thermal power plants from Kosovo and Metohija. We have already discussed that we cannot do this without this strategy and resolving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija. Now, what's the issue here? It's a slow gas storage facility, which has been talked about for years. It is disputed that this strategy does not decidently and specifically state, except for this definition or indication that this need exists, when this warehouse will be in operation or when we will begin to build that warehouse. We know that Serbia's orientation, and according to this strategy, that gas consumption in Serbia is increasing in the coming period, that we base ourselves as much on gas as possible as the cheapest energy right now, but that we are paying significant funds to Hungary for gas storage and that it must be Serbia's commitment to make gas storage as soon as possible in Serbia. From the strategy itself, I don't see what's concrete about it here, when it will begin to build that warehouse. As far as energy capacities are concerned, it can't be seen when the construction or continuation of the construction of already started capacities will begin. In the priority programmes of this strategy, we have five priorities, and watch out, out of those five, only the fourth priority, as an option, is the priority for emergency investment in new energy sources. So only the fourth - optional, and this fifth, as a long-term development and strategic priority, is building new objects. So they're somewhere on the tail of these events. They are not in this period, likely, although in this table 4.4, which is listed here as a dynamic of implementing these reforms, said that some investments in the extension of the construction of TE "Columbara B" and some other capacities will start around 2007, but nothing concrete in this strategy is said. So, in particular, we have a problem with "Colubary B", when its construction will continue; we heard that 40% of the works there are finished; it's been standing for years. Just a moment to remind you of a letter submitted by TE "Nikola Tesla" Obrenovac to the public company EPS 1.10.2002, in which the investment plan for 2003 to continue the construction of TE "Colubara B"; among other things, it says that the plan for business decisions relating to the continuation of the construction of TE "Colubara B". In the note, we are particularly referring to the importance of this point for the construction of "Colubary B", which has been delivered to you many times, and no decisions have yet been made. So, in 2002, it is found that it has been repeatedly tried to act as EPS to make these decisions that will continue to be built, but nothing has been done about it. Now, watch out, from that document that was delivered to the EPS in 2002, I will read only a few segments – since in 2002 there were no conditions for providing the necessary financial resources to continue the construction of Colubary B, the deadline for the release of blocks to work must be moved by the fourth quarter of 2006 (i.e., the deadline for the release of blocks then moved to 2006 by block 1, and by block 2 to 2007), which will call into question further realization of all the activities that have been initiated, with possible serious consequences for the already delivered equipment and works done. Gentlemen, not to mention, by 2002, a total of $377 million was invested in TE "Columbara B". That money's been trapped, it's been out of business for years. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in the past few years and from this document that we are discussing here today we do not see when the work will continue on ′′Collubari B′′. On top of that, we can see from this that the equipment that is standing there is now under question, how much it is in operation at all, how much it can rely on it at all, and how much it will take to revitalise and put it into service. Therefore, to conclude, the strategy we have here will not be accepted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, because it is not correct, there are no concrete things we expected here. The specific things are when we start to build or continue building the capacities that have started to ensure the basic objective of this strategy, which is to provide enough energy for the population of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14136	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14137	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a whole day since we adopted the Performance Study, and that makes you laugh, because there's no room for criticism. There, in recent lines, they destroyed institutions for three years and exercised power, called for Europe, reforms and failed to do anything. Yesterday they tried to take credit and say it was their fault, that it was their decision. There are other critics for criticism, which see Serbia's unnecessarily, or Serbia-Montenegro's state union entry into the EU as unnecessary. Nothing has happened in the last 24 hours, because you all knew it, and especially from the DSS, that Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, is always doing his job. The government has done most of its thanks to what the previous two or several governments, with the support of a huge number of parties or Europe and the whole world, have failed. Why? The best evidence was just an MP who was critical of the Study on Performance and Today's agenda points, and it will be recognised because it is from the same political group of MPs who are now having fun in the back row. I thought the Minister of Energy had failures and should be criticised, but this previous gentleman has just proved by his criticism and arguments that it is necessary to criticise the Minister of Energy, precisely because only this gentleman has been changed. Under the company of experts, many people from this energy portfolio have remained in their positions, making brakes and real problems not only in their companies, public enterprises, but also in the entire system, or state. The former Mr. Speaker has just proved that it is necessary to criticise the executives and the minister himself of this portfolio for not changing these people, the critics painted exclusively by a party color, why he believed in their expertise when they survived only because of their political criticism and political colors. This will remain the minister of energy as a task for the next period and as a topic of thought. What I was going to say is that of these three joint points that we're discussing today, the most important point, to which I would give the most attention, is exactly the strategy of electricity development. Some criticism could be made that the strategy should have been part of a more serious strategy for Serbia's economic and economic development, that it should have been part of a general strategy in this regard, and that it had to participate in the adoption of this strategy and its creation. I would mention the inevitable Ministry of Science and Ecology. There's been a lot of criticism. However, the defence also states that this strategy and the obligation of its adoption stem from the Energy Act and that this ministry, regardless of all criticism and failures in its work, deserves and commendation, because it has fulfilled and proposed a strategy for electricity development. What should be criticised is that this strategy, apart from the analysis it's given, is too general. I have noticed, and this is the assessment of all MPs from southern Serbia, that too little or no space has been given to southern Serbia. I would remind you that this is not a trend since yesterday or a year ago, that it is a decades-old trend and that we have practically at this point come to the fact that southern Serbia is the most undeveloped part of Serbia. It is part of Serbia that may be slightly in the understanding of most of those who do not have the basic life problems that people in southern Serbia have, even an exotic island, an exotic part of Serbia. The people of southern Serbia have, in addition to the problems that affect all remaining Serbian residents, and the problems that affect only them, because they are right in that part of Serbia. Therefore, residents of southern Serbia are not seeking anything special, although what has been done so far for decades, what they have done, or have not done all the previous governments, and in part this ministry, whose proposal is this strategy, deserve to have equal conditions. They deserve to be able to establish a firm in both Novi Sad and Belgrade, and in Kragujevac, both in Vranj and in the Shop, if most of them know where the city is. The people of southern Serbia are doing much more and much harder to live. Most of them know that. In central Serbia, or the metropolis, or the metropolis, if we think there are more, in Serbia's cities, they do the hardest jobs that residents of these cities will not. They are both dunes, and cleaners, and I don't know what everything; I'm not talking about these interests pesoriously, but these are difficult occupations that people from southern Serbia have to do. On the other hand, Mr. Naumov, who visited southern Serbia several times, and other ministers do not provide enough support for equalising the position of southern Serbia with other parts of Serbia. We're all big in words, everything is possible in words, but there's practically nothing in practice. I'll remind you of one example of the economy of southern Serbia. We privatized a large company, with a suspicious price, it's "Health" from Leskovec, thanks to the previous government, the company Simpo sold "Vasinska Rosa", a water factory for good money. Everything else is petty and it is the economy of southern Serbia. Of what to start, do not go from zero; if the economy and residents of central Serbia or Vojvodina go ahead, start from zero, then southern Serbia goes from minus ten, it will not reach that zero, it will not reach central Serbia's position. We all know this. I have said this several times, and I know, this had to be said because of the people in southern Serbia who most politicians remember, of course, I will also mention an unparliamentary party when they win some votes in election campaigns. After that, that part of Serbia is for all investments an existing part of the country. In addition, so that one enterprise from southern Serbia could be a competitive company from Novi Sad that has cheaper energy, infrastructure, a market close by. How could this business from southern Serbia only bear transport costs plus cost of expensive energy? South Serbia's companies are forced to use expensive energy and thus are not competitors to their products. Now the final word on the strategy. The strategy was foreseen by Corridor 10. One ministerial assistant said these days that Corridor 10 goes from Subotica to Nis, then to Dimitrovgrad - completely incorrect. Corridor 10 is heading towards Skopje and Thessaloniki, and this is a foot towards Bulgaria. The strategy provides nicely for the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad pipeline, and the pipeline is not even indicated under Nis, there are no economic conditions. Regardless of political parties and political beliefs, because it is not possible otherwise, we have tried to support economic development and all other conditions of life in southern Serbia with the help of all parties who want better Serbia. In line with that, regardless of political belonging, and not forgetting who we belong to, I don't forget, for the Jablanic and the Pcinian district, we set up a Council for Economic Development. On this advice, we deal with life’s issues, trying in any way to get the help of the superior authorities. And this performance of mine is about trying to influence Mr. Minister to give more attention to that part of Serbia, to help us. This was due both to citizens of southern Serbia and to a respected colleague, Mike Pesic, and I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14138	The word has a Minister of Naumov. I hope he will listen to Mr. Cvetkovic and resolve this undertone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14139	Just one clarification – it is often heard, whether it is ignorance or non-information – the strategy does not elaborate on any single individual, or regional, or any other programme. There are programs for this and in each of these programs it will be very detailedly worked out. South Serbia will not be neglected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14140	The word has the People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from these three points of the agenda that have been brought together the most attention was the proposal for a decision to determine the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, so I will say something about this. In this document, I did not recognise the strategy, on the contrary, I recognized the forecasts of the Republic of Serbia's energy needs by 2015. Believe that anyone who has a little better control of computer technology can visit several websites, collect a number of data and get the same results that this strategy has come to, are pages 51 and 52. There is no strategy because consumption, i.e. the need for energy, will be exclusively in a proportional relationship, as is now foreseen by a certain increase in the energy needs of the Republic of Serbia by 2015. That's why this can be called predicting rather than a fundamental strategy. There's only a little difference in the relationship here when it comes to natural gas, but that's actually a tendency for the energy consumption, because of its low price, to rise. Here a few months ago, I presented a document to the public and to the MPs; the authors called it – the Serbian Energy Termidor, or our wanderings in the last 40 years when it comes to the strategy for the security of the energy of the Republic of Serbia. For anyone who wants to make a strategy in the future, it would be good to get to that document, and it's not hard to get to it, because it was done by people who spent 30 or 40 years in exactly the jobs they create and educate experts who deal with strategy. When it comes to strategy, it is a strategy that is born and who should have a vision of how something will happen in the future, it cannot be learned. The largest number of these documents shows, in fact, that these are the efforts of some people to collect well-gathered and updated data through and call it a strategy. If this is intended for the EU, to present itself as a step closer to it, and if they swallow this, I have nothing against it, but this cannot be considered a strategy. We will, according to this forecast, have an increased need for electricity, but it seems to me that the strategists in this assessment have failed for the following reasons. The biggest electricity consumer in the past was economics, not households in Serbia. Given that the economy and economic activities in the Republic of Serbia are choking, shutting down and disappearing, my opinion is that we will even be in surplus when it comes to electricity, and I will give you an example of that. For 30 days now, they have been excluded from the electric power supply of spears and fleets of the Great Curve, which are the basic plants in RTB Bor that provide a domestic concentrate, except for a pit in Bor that provides a small part of the Mejdanpek copper mine. At the same time, the smelter works full steam, the current is not excluded, although it is a unique system, perhaps because the solvent is being melted by an import concentrate from Chile, the company "The same point" owned by Drakulić, which is such a quality that 30 times more polluted air than allowed these days is inhaling Borana. It has been officially said that electricity has been shut down due to 50 million dinars of RTB Bor EPS debt. I have asked you and the other ministers here several times what about the loan promised to RTB Boru of business banks of 30m euros last year, when it was supposed to settle the strike on the highway; you said the matter was a day, a week, and the last time I was told the loan was won. No one in Bora knows about that loan. You told me, not you, but your colleagues, that they were at the end of a deal with the Southpetrol. I asked, I don't know since Jugopetrol became a business bank; it is obvious that because of the ties between EPS and Southpetrol they could easily have made those 50 million dinars, which was yesterday spoken of by Aleksandar Vukic, who were spent irrationally, to pay for that debt to RTB Bora for electricity and to continue there to produce a concentration of copper, our domestic, which would benefit the entire community. In the end, I would like, not for myself, but for the citizens of Borai Serbia, to answer what really is with that 30m-euro loan, because believe me, I am tired of repeating to you for almost a year. I don't understand how someone from the government doesn't come in and say there's no credit or there won't be, or just come in and say there's a loan or it'll be secured then and then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14142	The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we started this session today in the Serbian Parliament building, the power went out. It is a clear message to the minister – either the Assembly did not pay for electricity, or Hamovic and Lazarevic punish MPs or the energy mafia sent a message to the minister that he knows who is the boss in Serbia as far as energy is concerned. Even so, the thief is in energy, and the thief is impossible to separate by segments at all. It is impossible to separate the thieving in the EPS from the thieving in NIS, and this from the thieving in finance, because it is closely connected, ′′Euroaxis bank′′, Hamović, Lazarevic, Dinkic, Popovic in NIS, and it revolves in circles. Actors are mostly the same. However, today is the biggest crime in Serbia's Oil Industry. Yesterday you heard when Mr. Alexander Vucic read that 7 million were approved, and 57 plus 34 million spent, mostly non-intentional, and what happens in Serbia's oil industry at all, that is, energy. The scenario that is well-known, stalking and in JAT is now being tried in NIS, is likely to be very soon in the EPS. The bottom line is that public enterprises are being disbursed, so that the big bosses and the financialists of individual political parties could easily swallow them. In JAT, they first caused the dissatisfaction of the air mechanics, then the strike, and then they separated that technical operation and now Mr. Velja Ilic, or someone of him or him behind that one of his technical operatives, will swallow it. Now the fly engineers are going to strike, again someone took a look at that JAT segment; then there will be only flight operations, which will be swallowed by Miskovic or someone of him, or Miskovic with some of his others, etc. The point is, it's all going round and round. There is one group of those who have been rich since 1990 with various malfeasances and especially those who have been rich since 2000 with the transfer of money from Cyprus to the Virgin Islands, so there have been many volunteers to go and look for those money and they have all found it, but now Serbia has no idea because Serbia will never return that money. How exactly did it go? The government of the Republic of Serbia, although not her job, appointed NIS Director Zeljko Popovic at a session on March 31st; he served as Director-General. The directors of public enterprises are appointed by the Serbian Parliament, the government has taken on this great burden and set up a director. This wrongly placed either by mistake or, as far as the law is concerned, the unset director today is cheerful and dressing. After all, all segments of society are covered by crime. This morning, the SRS parliamentary group, namely five MPs who are members of the Committee on Culture and Information, filed a criminal complaint against the director of the Yugoslav Museum of History, because there is also an unprecedented crime, but on another occasion. Today they're creating shortages, there's been no Euro diesel for two or three days at private pumps, there's been a situation here and there at the state pumps. Newspapers full of headlines, shortages are being prepared, in fact, public opinion is being prepared in Serbia to say -- we're tired of being bullied this way and punished, you're doing what you want with NIS. That opens up the possibility of thieving. Why today, when, for example, on Friday 8 April 2005 and on Monday 11 April 2005, is the euro diesel's 900 tonnes exported? He's not at the pumps, and he's been exported through Goran Novakovic's company, former minister. Željko Popovic, self-appointed director, because we MPs did not appoint him, we did not appoint him, he ordered, under the threat of firing, to get out of the so-called so-called. Zero reserves draw 900 tons of Euro-Diel and sell, to be exported. Do you think it's because of the love of Novakovic or because of the love of money? The biggest thief, ladies and gentlemen, is the price of domestic oil. The domestic oil called ′′turia, which is not otherwise lagging behind imported Ural Oil, is one of the more quality; 650,000 tonnes of NIS produced and the price of that oil is weighted with the import price, and the price of that oil is $22.5 per barrel, and the price of import êural′′ oil is $50 per barrel. Maybe it'd be okay if we made it a little cheaper, so we'd lower the energy price and the price at the gas station would be a little lower. However, Popovic, Vucurovic and other directors, I have here a record from a meeting of the permanent commission on oil exports, held on 4 April 2005 in Novi Sad, where Zoran Nikodinović, Tomislav Rabotić, Natasa Nedeljković, Bosko Vucurović, etc., a total of 10 (so Ali Baba and 40 robbers, ten are here, and 30 probably on the other side) agree to export bitumen because the tanks are full, bitumen warehouses are full. Maybe it would be okay, no matter what bitumen we need and we always import bitumen, because our paths are in catastrophic condition, so they don't ask to take out bitumen at the cost of domestic oil, so at a domestic price. You have the right three times to guess who's going to put the difference between the domestic price and the import price. The minister has two options. One is to stop this thieving, to apply for the replacement of complete management of NIS, because the best man's connections are and there are Hamovic, Lazarevic and everyone else, and to launch criminal charges against thieves, and the other is to resign so we don't put him in the same basket tomorrow, because, as far as I know, the tails have not been dragged behind this minister until now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is just the tip of the iceberg; if there were opportunities and a little deeper buried in the sphere of energy, such criminal matters would be discovered that it would be incredible. That's why I know Serbian Radical Party MPs will certainly not vote for these laws. We've submitted part of the amendment, and I think we're going to try the amendments... I'm sorry, we haven't submitted any amendments to these laws, and we certainly won't vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14144	The word has a National MP, Nikola Todorovic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since there is very little time left, I will not have time to talk long about this text of the development strategy proposal. It is normal that she could have written herself in a different way, where other dynamics would have been seen, possibly, which of the people, by function or by name, was in charge and possible responsibility. It's a 15-year period. What will be done in the first, second, and so on. It could be clearer and more understandable for people in the profession. It is written and clear enough for those outside the profession and more explanations would not help. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister and his assistant, the esteemed Mr. Mihajlovic, if I'm not mistaken... Mr. Minister is doing a better job in energy, while, in a literal sense, the mining work is being done by his deputy, i.e. deputies and assistants. It may be clear to me, but I don't know if it's clear to the citizens of Bora and Majdanpek why the current of the Bora and Majdanpek fleets has been cut off, and at a time when ′′Gerdap′′ works well, when the water flow is in large quantities. I'm saying this for the reason that less and less copper concentrates are produced in Bor and Majdanpek, which the government does not separate from the necessary crafts to start the production process in Bor and Majdanpek, or very slowly it goes, and then the concentrate is imported with a very large amount of harmful matter and the citizens of Bor are choking because of evaporation. I don't know who gave the information to the press, maybe it's part of the tactics for this strategy to be implemented later, but journalists later write that we need to close the pine cannon, that we have in the neighborhood, in Bulgaria a very modern solvent, which uses modern technology, and that all concentrates should be melted there. This would mean suspending business activities in Bor and Majdanpek, which would be devastating for the region, in an economic, economic, social sense. We shouldn't let that happen. I know that the government has to make a lot of efforts to determine the capacity, to separate the crafts, to establish the mineral reserves and start the exploitation, as far as possible, so that that end of that business activity is not cut short. Because for 200 years we've been developing mining and it's hard for one year to move on to other economic activities in a short time; if we're not dealing with the production and processing of copper ore, then that end at a long time won't be able to build some other capacity to deal with another production. That would be devastating for those citizens. In this regard, I appeal from this speaker to the Government and the RES, the government committees in charge of this, seek solutions faster and more energetically, to separate crafts and fortifications and capacities that can be qualified at the given time for what kind of activity, in terms of production of a certain amount of domestic concentrate. This melting room needs to be updated, filtered and evaded from the melting of these imported concentrates, in order to avoid an idea that is placed in the newspaper – that the melting room should be closed. That would be the biggest problem for that end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14146	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89? The word has an authorised SPS representative Dragan Jovanovic, so we will end this point, so please listen to Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14147	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, in this second part of my address, practically, I'm going to pick up where I broke up yesterday. I will just say, for the sake of reminders, that one of the basic principles of the Elektroprivred Serbia, which I will mainly talk about, and also one of the basic principles of the SPS programme and policy, is to ensure that development policy provides conditions that the energy potential in Serbia can produce the electricity needed to meet the needs of both citizens and, in that sense, provide opportunities for the export of electricity in the periods when it is convenient for the system. I also said that I would remind myself that in the development goals of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, this finding stands, for the reason that today, practically, in the present time, we have a pronounced power deficit that threatens me. Now I don't have time to go into detail, but if we were to talk about replacement capacity, about the near-need to stop working on certain blocks and aggregates, then under the unfavourable conditions of economic development, we would have a situation that threatens us to move on to the need for systematic imports of electricity. Respecting what the minister said before the end of yesterday's session and the fact that this strategy is not concerned with individual issues, I expect that this issue should be addressed in documents that will be subsequently adopted as accompanying the documents of this strategy, above all I am thinking about the strategy we are talking about today, and I hope that it will be treated in this way. Secondly, the position that our parliamentary group represents is that the energy sector restructuring programme, which is under way, should be implemented with respect to social programmes and collective agreements, in co-operation with energy unions and also that energy companies remain state-owned in future restructuring. I will remind you that about eight months ago, when we adopted the Energy Act here, we also expressed these three issues as the main ones and that we were then assured from the Minister that, regardless of how it will not be implemented in the Law, on these principles, the policy of the energy sector and the policies of the Ministry of Energy will be established and in this period I have the impression that this is going in that direction. What am I talking about now? I'll remind you of those three principles. That's when we said it was necessary for coal production to be introduced into the law and treated as energy activity. We said that the law stipulates that the principles of restructuring will be implemented by vertical structure. At that time, we said that we expect the ownership of the energy sector to be treated as a state-owned enterprise. As for what we have seen so far on the restructuring plan, which is certainly the strategic significance of this moment, and since there has been a lot of talk about it today and certain criticisms about this process have been expressed, it should be noted that this is the process that has started, which is being implemented, that this process has covered the space of electricity in a very wide range and that it is, I repeat, being implemented on the principles that I mentioned. I have no time, no desire, no will to analyse that process for nearly three and a half years has not even begun in the idea. Why is it so, it could be said, but that is why it sounds amazing that it now criticises the start of the process as a slow one. It deserved a certain explanation, but some other time. They reiterate the view of the SPS parliamentary group on this issue; it is well known – we advocate the principle of restructuring with respect to the expressed social programme and, I repeat, we support the views of the EPS union, and we advocate the vertical structure of the state-owned company. I've said it again, I mean, for the third or fourth time. Why do I feel the need to say that? Although the minister has assured us in his address that energy policy continues on these principles, we have been witnessing that there have been some tones lately that are not exactly in line with these principles and that these tones are coming right from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I find that not good for the energy sector. Not to get into the details, I mean certain tones that are being placed by the Ministry of Finance, which have recently been echoed in some of the Deputy Prime Minister's views. In this regard, we hear from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia that the events must take place in the privatisation of the energy sector. It's something new, something that hasn't been the government's policy so far or, at the very least, wasn't the policy of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. This time I express, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the concern that some processes in this direction will not lead to this, and I am not in a position to say and say that I doubt that such processes can lead to certain disturbances in the energy sector. That's what I'm trying to explain next. At the end of last year, somewhere in November, the EPS adopted a business plan for 2005. He was properly adopted by the EPS authorities and handed over to the government, and was confirmed by the government in early April. I don't have to convince anyone here what it means for such a system as EPS when you three months at the beginning of the year, when the greatest need is to concentrate on financial givings, because that's when you prepare for renovations and revitalization, you hold a program of his business, for whatever reason, and you don't give him the opportunity to do what he planned and to do. It is evident that the reasons why this was a dispute, by the Ministry of Finance, are certain elements of business policy, and they continue to persist. The principles of the EPS are being challenged at the moment. I don't want to quote here, I think it is offensive to call this kind of Serbian national company - a gravedigger of the Serbian economy, a bottomless pit, a dinosaur that won't change, etc. I remind you that it is a complex technical and economic and financial system, which represents the backbone of the economy, not to mention social events in the Republic of Serbia; not to mention that it is a company that has maintained sanctions on its shoulders, and the bombing and experimentation of the Government between 2001 and 2004. It is now approaching certain parameters that can make it one company and also European criteria. I want to say this: there is a concern, because certain scenarios are recognizable, and I don't want to believe that this is about the policy of deliberate weakness of a powerful system and the intentional introduction of such a company into a position to make it super cheap. I don't want to believe that these are the measures that want to prevent the EPS from becoming a profitable company that will be able to go to the market tomorrow that we have defined by law and which we are very much talking about. I want to believe that this has nothing to do with it, and in that sense, I'm avoiding direct evaluations of whether it is or not. Certain scenarios on some other examples indicate that this is possible. I'd like to ask the minister, if not after this debate, to explain a little bit of this matter, and at least try to put energy in place in future activities. I'd like to hear from the minister if what we're saying is so and is it possible that the spirit of politics that Mrs. Korri Udovici has propagated in Serbia when it comes to the EPS, which we thought was defeated, is still sticking to the EPS? I estimate, in the end, that the strategy, with all the shortcomings we have expressed, is seen as necessary, as a document needed by EPS, NIS, general energy. In that sense, with the clarifications given by the minister and which we respect and with the recommendations that certain things are more specific in future documents, I think such a document can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14148	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Anyone else answer for word per article 89? No, I don't. It's time, one hour break, but when the chairman decides. We'll do it now. Wait a second to solve the question. There's no one here. That's enough the minister's talking. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act, a proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a strategy for energy development by 2015. I'm taking a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. Please first determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their MPs' cards in the MPs' units. According to official records, 122 MPs are present. I find that we have a quorum, according to the electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law on the termination of the Law on Electropriority has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular I find that the proposing representative does not want a word and I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Application and EIDENTICATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION (principles) You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Milan Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Vjerica Radet, together Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirović, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, Milan Stevović, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Vojislav Milajić, Milovanovic and Momir Marković. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds, the DSS parliamentary group – one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group – 44 minutes and 24 seconds, the G17 plus – 37 minutes and 12 seconds, the SPP Group of MPs – New Serbia – 21 minutes and 26 seconds, the SPS parliamentary group – 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three SDP MPs per five minutes, pursuant to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this item are representatives of the agenda in front of SRS Zoran Krasic, in front of DS Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber, in front of G17 plus Branka Bosnjak. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodic, minister of economic relations with abroad, want a word? Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure? Please, the word is Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14151	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with respect for every member of the Government who appears in the Assembly and with my wish that there are as many of them at the National Assembly sessions as possible, I must note that Mr. President of the National Assembly does not respect the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the government's authorised representative at the National Assembly on this point is Mr Mladjan Dinkic and the National Assembly has been informed in writing by Vice-President Miroljub Labus that he is a representative of the Government in the Assembly by this point, Mladjan Dinkic. Until Mladjan Dinkic appears, the government has no authorised representative here. Minister Parivodic can get a word like any minister, when asked for it, or according to the Rules of Procedure, but he is not a representative of the government. Please note that we do not have a representative of the government again when discussing the agenda point for which Mladjan Dinkic has been designated, which has already shown in several ways that he does not respect the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14152	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I'm really sorry, I didn't know it wasn't written that the government informed me that, because of the need to make arrangements with the IMF, a delegation travelling from a higher level of government to Washington, it authorised Minister Parivodic to represent this law. I'll intervene right away. I will ask Mr Milan Markovic to continue to lead the Assembly and immediately intervene to send that authority in writing and deliver it to every MP. You're absolutely right, and now I thank you. Please, come in, Mr. Parisian.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14153	Thank you, Mr. President, for the session held yesterday, I was given a mandate to present to the honourable MPs a bill on the application and registration of the seized property, precisely for these reasons that Mr. President of the Assembly stated. In fact, you have before you a text that represents, unfortunately, only the beginning of a process that should have happened much earlier. It is a process of consolidation of property rights, fortification of property rights, which was fundamentally disrupted in the previous system through various acts that the state brought in the period of its revolutionary democracy after World War II. Without compensation, she took away property from people who gained it honestly, by their work. This draft represents, namely, the beginning of the reconciliation process between citizens and our republic, a reconciliation process that must establish property rights as one of the fundamental human rights, which, after the right to life and to freedom, is probably the most important human right. This process must finally begin to take place. I understand that Serbian society is fully aware of the importance of this process and that this idea has matured; unfortunately, in my opinion, it is quite late. That is why, and in order for the state to assume on itself those obligations that it can truly bear, this law is passed, as the first phase aimed at recording the property that should represent the subject of vomiting or possible compensation, if vomiting is impossible. In fact, the state, however, before it assumes the legal obligations to return, must know what financial obligations are under way, because there is a very great burden on our budget from the various problems we have brought back from the past to the present. Therefore, the meaning of this law, as I said, is precisely the determination of the amount of obligations the state would assume, followed by two laws. One law is a general law on denationalisation, which needs one reasonable way to restore everything that can be returned, by my deep conviction, in nature, and the rest, therefore, that which cannot return, to return to money. Also, this law stipulates that the return of church property and property of other religious communities is done through one special law and thus that all religious communities, of course our Orthodox Church, will be satisfied. That's the meaning of this law. The provisions are just sorting it out in a rather lapidary way. The law provides for the application of candidates who believe they have been deprived of property and that registration should begin as soon as the law enters into force, on the eighth day of adoption, and lasts until June 30th of the following year. So, all of our people will have the right until June 30th to file their documents, and the state will, on the basis of that, make a record of these claims or natural restitutions, and to pass the appropriate laws, which will strengthen the principle of property and human rights towards all citizens of our country, so that we do not have citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order, but that we only have citizens of the first order. This is on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is not to question the macroeconomic stability of society, which is very important, because we know what we have been through since 1993, 1994, in terms of macroeconomic instability. That would be about my brief introduction to this bill. I'm open to all your suggestions and questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14154	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary clubs, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14155	In order to draw the public's attention to this prank that has been prepared, I will start with the following conclusion: at a time of prolonged economic crisis and social misery, when most citizens are dissatisfied with the effects of justice and justice and the fact that they are making Faelets of several thousand square metres, which is unjust, which with a building permit, and when the ordinary world is looking at this injustice and so on in power, it calls for some new nationalisation, expropriation, so what does not say and confiscation, because it became a legal norm since the DOS built it into the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, this government proposes to us a third of something called the denationalisation process. At a completely wrong moment, in the wrong setting for the Proposer, the Proposer very irresponsiblely proposes and probably pleads to pass such a law, deeply aware of the fact that this law, this group of people who proposed it, will never apply it, because they are likely to be released from the government very quickly and go to some extraparliamentary-parliamentary opposition. In order not to be inconceivable, the SRS has long notified the public of its political views, what it thinks of such a promised denationalisation. And DOS promised denationalisation as soon as it came to power. To remind you, 2001, 2002, 2003, various groups, various commissions looked at the problem both left and right, and from top and bottom, and there were some, I think, Curcin, some Seat Spahic, some working groups, so NGOs called new democratic power where this law on denationalisation is, why it is late and so on, and so on. The hand to heart, and the DSS in 2003 promised a rapid process of denationalisation, also pleading to what was in the opening statement on imaginary human rights, as if human rights never existed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and so on. There's been a half-department here on how to supposedly keep the promise without doing anything, to warm up some people's hopes and expectations without essentially getting into the problem of denationalisation. In a very modest explanation of this bill (I think it is a pity that this minister has agreed to defend this law, since this law is not truly a member of this gentleman's ministry) what can be seen is that the explanation is a utter hollow, worthless, with ordinary flossules, political qualifications, pangs of human rights and nothing more. There's no content, no basic reason why it's done. There is also a big mistake, if all forms of transfer of property from private to state and social are placed in some form of equality with these same processes that have been conducted since 1945 and as far as Russia is concerned, and one analogy is derived from this. Right, analogy is wrong. To begin with, I'm just going to potential two basic principles of the SRS, which is also in this law, which only applies to recording and reporting, essentially some things are very unsuccessfully prejudged. This is where one who is a potential candidate, if he thinks something belongs to him and one who acts on behalf of the state, would record it, and if he didn't, then he doesn't know why he wouldn't record it. There are no provisions on the procedure. There's no right here, here's the right to register, not the right to regain property. About the right to return the property, as far as we've heard, the government is just considering in some medium-term period in the next five years to put a finger on the head, so it'll consider. We haven't heard from a government official why they found the date of March 9, 1945 in article 1. And you noticed it, and you find it strange. In these consultations, I have not heard which MP will vote for this law, most MPs are against this law, regardless of the parliamentary group. You have decided to unite the Assembly, as I see it, on such drafts of the law. Those who are in favour of denationalization are not satisfied with the level you have proposed. We who are against denationalization, of course, are not satisfied with what you have suggested. There, a degree of unity has been achieved. If we're already talking about the need for denationalisation, I have to refer the motionary back to it, I don't know what the UN Charter has to do with denationalization, which this brilliant mind found at the UN Charter? Please, the UN Charter regulates relations between states, security of peace, not to be read in order now. Where did you find the right property? Let's call for some general declaration, a general pact and so on, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, so I understand. Where do you find the UN Charter? You have found here the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, somewhat related, but the most important thing to do with this is the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, because it is in the most direct relationship with the European Court of Human Rights. General papaziania. So you are absolutely certain that this law cannot be applied and you are even more certain that you will not apply this law. You're not going to apply it theoretically, and then you put this in order to satisfy the need of those who rightly expect some property to be returned to them, as you, for God's sake, have done something, and no one will say that you've caught one impossible job and impossible procedure. I'm not going to comment on these provisions, because we've submitted so many amendments, and then we'll specifically explain to you about each member what is legal-technical, legal-logical and theoretical failure, but this law is full of such failures. So, at the politically wrong time, you're trying to realize your wrong political commitment and promise. I just told you -- why on 9 March 1945, why didn't you take a date before that? And King Alexander has done some things that concern taking away property and moving property into state property. That was in our history a long time ago. Why didn't you invite yourself to 1129, 1389? I only mention these deadlines and these dates because you don't have the vision to go backwards. According to what you wrote in 1945 – 2005, it means 60 years ago; why not go 40, 70, 100, why not go 300 years back. If it went 300 years back, then you would solve the problem of property and return to Kosovo and Metohija territory. How in these conditions can you consider these things, when our territory and property of our people are possessed there, where did you get that boldness? This fits into one concept that you are pushing and will probably be heard in 10 days, and that is what the Serbian public should hear, to ratify even an agreement on the rights of national minorities with the Republic of Croatia, where you are allegedly protecting the rights of the Serbian and Montenegrin national minorities in Croatia and the Croatian national minorities in Serbia. I have to tell you - that's what Vuk Draskovic cheated on you. The Serbs in Republika Srpska, in Krajina, had to rebel because they were expelled from the Constitution as a constituent people and became under the rank of a national minority. Now you're pushing them to be national minorities. Whether I'm yelling or not, Mr. Aligrudic, you're doing the wrong thing. So the wrong things at the wrong time. There are some universal deadlines that account for obsolescence. Please, you have a number of associations asking that this law not be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14156	Mr. Krasic, are you using another 10 minutes? Please don't throw the speaker away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14157	Yeah. Aligrudić, not a problem, would be dangerous if someone else did, otherwise Aligrudic could. Please, at the wrong time, you're only doing the wrong thing because you're keeping your promises blindly, apparently. You tricked those people you promised this process to. You tricked those people. You're asking us all to participate. This is exactly what I'm talking about for the public, because right through your speakers, you will say that you are for human rights, for the return of property, that private property is sacred to you, and you will be given daily expropriation by Mladjan Dinkic with your economic policy. Why don't you make it right, but you're going back? Are you aware of the problems that arise if your majority adopt a process, that is, some new law on denationalisation, where these full property rights will be recognised and where physical property should be returned? What are you going to do with these people? Some deadlines again; how will you repay, if it's the monetary part, from the budget, so it's now an empty budget. Why are you making false promises to the citizens? The stories of privatization have made it very difficult for citizens to privatise, and the stories of democracy have made the notion of the citizens detestable. The laws are falsified, votes from Bodrum, privatisation you know what it is – the touch system. It seemed to you earlier as a joke, but the citizens of Serbia, unable, think more about how to correct some injustice, and now you want to return in an imperfect way, an unspeakable way, which can create new and even bigger problems. Now you'd like to fight both neighbors and citizens. Of course, private property should be sacred, of course, that private property can only be a guarantee of one individual's freedom and that's what we all stand for, but is this what you've suggested a trip? You have proposed a law by which it will be registered; there will be a registration of persons who do not know whether they are entitled to it; they are not known whether they are pretenders of any property; they do not know where that property is; they do not know how much the property is worth. How can the law with so many suspenses, everything is something future and uncertain. Norma needs to be specific, clear, precise, everything here is uncertain. If you're talking about something that's uncertain, then it's a political program, a political pamphlet. The law as a form where something is regulated, so let's make it a record, exists with us in practice, but it's so-called. technical laws relating to the law on records in the field of work, in the field of health care, but there are no law on records in this area. Or, pass a law on denationalisation, where rights, procedures are considered, etc., if you provide most, not this halfway or a third time. It's a wolf full of sheep in number. A longing has been cast out for those who should hope and care for those who should eventually move. That's what you think about and bring a grain of discord into this area. Of course we won't support you. If the universal age is 20 years old, then you know what that means. State property in the countries of the eastern bloc cannot be placed in the same basket with the concept of state and social property in the former SFRY. We're talking about injustices, whether they can be corrected by injustices of confiscation. If confiscation was a criminal measure, a follow-up measure, how can you give such people hope that their property can be returned when the confiscation of maltene sanctions. If you had a chance to see one amendment, I think Article 2, where a whole spectrum of former regulations that led to a change in ownership, so where from private property went to state and social property, then you'll see that there is some specificity in the process. You can't forget these specifics and put them all in the same basket. These are some things that the promoter didn't care about when they pressured him to keep his promise and pass a law on denationalisation; then they came up with – let's write it down first, and now we're pretending that this is a technical regulation. That regulation depends on human rights, on the technical rules, depending on human rights. So it is not respected what happened, the fact that there is no respect for the fact that in existing regulations there are specific areas where there is an obligation for the state to in some way implement a restitution that does not require this law; it is the House Act. All private-owned tenants are obliged to resolve the housing issue and return it to the former owner. It already exists in the law, you know that law, why isn't it applied? You can't force the municipalities. In the municipalities, it is the people who speak of human rights, democracy, private property as sacred. That's where you could finish the job, and you didn't finish it. For this return you do not need recording, it just takes nice in the municipal budget to plan the funds – this year we buy five apartments, solve protected tenants, and we return to the previous owners. You're not going to do it, you didn't do it in 1992, you didn't do it in 2003, you didn't do it in 2004; you're not going to do it with information about how many such people have solved their housing issues and how many previous owners have received their property. Besides, since this is about to end, let me let you know a little bit. Look, how are you going to get Hamovic and what's going on on the Terrace plateau? You knew? Yes, and there's an earlier owner. The previous DOS had something to think about in half, and when it was passing the Planning and Construction Act, I think it was Article 82, it predicted some possibility of returning the building land, or it was Article 84. Where'd it go? Has that program been brought in since this program is a condition for the application of that member? It's not. Stop with the political pamphlets, come out with clear political views. If you have a vision of doing denationalization, add 126, vote the law, without the Serbian Radical Party, and finish the job, but make sure you don't cause any bigger problems, which we warn you of. If you stick to rules, regulations, the constitution, the law, then the procedure is completely clear, it is not based on promises but on a different path, which does not guarantee such a return as you have scattered that desire to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A clean bill of long love, an old saying. So, the registration, the law, and when you go into opposition, you refer to your inapplicable law, because that law needs someone else to apply, who at this point is against passing such a law. Keep an eye on it, because you bring in quite unnecessary another grain of discord; take care of it; the climate for such a law is not. She may have been in 2001 when you were strong, strong, when you had 250 votes here, when you promised hills and valleys, big money for restitution, for macroeconomic stability, so you could probably pull something out and solve these things. Today is not the situation. We haven't got the right reason yet. Injustices happen every day. With this political attitude, we do not legalize it, nor amnesty the one who did it in 1944 and 1945, but we are simply telling you that the legal and constitutional reasons do not allow one such law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14158	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14159	Replication to Mr Krasic's presentation, he mentioned my name in the discussion and I think he did it by misreading me. So, I did react from the scene because Mr. Krasic was screaming terribly, yelling from this pay phone. After all, he was not well, the peas of sweat began to water him. I didn't do it to belittle him, I did it because I expressed real concern for his health. You know, Mr. Krasic, when you talk about legal arguments, you and I are lawyers, there's no need to shout, because raising a ton won't help you be right, it's just the strength of the arguments you're making. I fully agree with you that you have the right to the position that denationalization is not necessary. We have the right to a second position and we have a minimum of 131 MPs to adopt the law on the return of property when the time comes. The regulation you have spoken of is practically a lobby for the adoption of such a law, precisely because we are aware that by adopting a law on the return of property in this country, one can not be done by correcting an injustice, which has been done in a cruel and harsh way in 1944, 1945, and 1946, and some later years, a number of other injustices. That is why we approach this problem with extreme caution and this law, which is now on the agenda, can serve as one of the elements of this caution so that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, can later prepare a valid act on denationalisation. Therefore, I did not react because I disagree with you, but because I am concerned about the way you speak. In the end, it was not good for you, and then the peas of sweat started to come out of your face.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14160	You can do business only.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14161	I tried to get into the political and legal essence, but I see that here is a much more important style. Probably you at the DSS have some kind of stylelist keeping an eye on what you're going to say. Mr. Aligrudic, there's no need to object. You watch the watermelons, I stay out of your business and there's no need to get involved in my business. So you don't like style. If you don't like style, some other place is for such remarks, but I'm surprised that you're complaining about style, and you're going out for a pay phone and you're confirming everything I said. So there was no need to throw at me at all. Am I yelling, do I scream, as you said, I hope I'm not screaming and I hope to speak loudly, although I have to tell you that it's pretty hard to be standing here sometimes, because there's a large amount of emotion here at all costs, since it counts all the time to Studio and Studio, like Christ. You failed something, don't celebrate it. So, be calm, enjoy yourself. You have 131, you have a stable majority, you just drive with that majority, but it would be good if you went out on the street some time and asked the citizens. Not to ask these in Brussels, they will give you support for what you're doing, but go outside the building and ask the citizens on the street, go to the Kalenić market, to some other place and ask the citizens – please, what do you think of our visionary moves as we think we're recording those potential claimants on the return of property? I don't want to speak out loud to you or yell at you, but I hope you know what they're going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14162	The word has the People's Messenger Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14163	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - Boris Tadic and I are personally for re-privatisation, i.e. compensation when the return of property in natural form is not possible or not comprehensive. This is the position we represented before 5 October 2000, which we were representing afterwards and which we are representing today. We have not passed, while there was a congregation majority, a law on privatisation and compensation because it is the passing of such a law, it is true, very complicated to meet all interests and all conditions. In an exposé, when he represented the new government, late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic put denationalisation as one of the priorities, but also put the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a priority. One of the reasons why there are still no reprivatisation rules is that there are constitutional barriers, e.g. for building land, which is a potentially important reprivatisation facility, state or social property is reserved under the Constitution, so the privatisation is not formally possible. Thus, if the proposed law is the intention of this government to enter into the process of regulating and implementing reprivatisation and compensation, we welcome it. Is that a good first step, that's a whole other question. Namely, there are MPs here who have been MPs for a long time and may remember in 1991. The then unique Democratic Party, so before the DEPOS wing was created and before the Democratic Party of Serbia was created, submitted a bill to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that envisioned the records, but also a ban on the availability of the seized property. That's when the proposal made sense. The apartments that were nationalised were not bought, privatisation was only on the pier and there was no mass labour privatisation yet. There were conditions to prevent the sale or other form of alienation of what was taken away and to enter a valid denationalisation. There was no will to adopt such a law, it was put on the Assembly's agenda by strange parliamentary games only in June 1995 to be rejected. Today, the government reiterates such a proposal, but with one important difference: it proposes a record, and it does not propose a ban on availability. Of course, records are necessary in the process of compensation and denationalisation. It is also clear that there is no good design of this process and adoption, the preparation of the law if the Government does not know how much it is necessary to return and depreciate, in order to design the means of compensation or the amount of compensation. Registration is government business. It's something she has to do to access this. This law places the records on the burden of potential users of denationalisation. There are many problems, paradoxes, and for me total misunderstandings of the problem. I'll start at the end. I ask the representatives of the Government – what is the consequence of the lack of respect for the obligation to record? The fact that a legislator threatens potential users of denationalisation, i.e. compensation that some other law will not give them that right. Gentlemen, you want the People's Messengers to now, by adopting this law, determine to the MPs of the people, both of them or others, to pass the law of certain content. The law on law-making, that's the meaning of what you're proposing. That's not possible. This obligation will not bind anyone. Whether the National Assembly will decide, by passing a law on reprivatisation and compensation, that the current record, application under this law or not, is a matter of the will of the assembly majority that will exist at the time of the law's adoption. This provision is rhetorical, I apologize to my colleague Parivodic, we worked together at Law School, just ridiculous. It's funny that the law obliges future legislators. That's not like the law. It shows an excess of such a defined law on recording. I know you need the records. I know you need to see what it is whose return is expected, how much money it takes for compensation, but this is not a good way to get there. This will also not satisfy potential users of reprivatisation and compensation. Convinced that it was done to them, and that it was still standing, and that injustice persisted, they sought much more. At least, if you do not return immediately and indemnity, then the prohibition of the future. No matter how late she is, if there's any regulations in advance, then so must the ban. I know it's too late, I know that such a ban now violates the principle of equal treatment, because a lot of things have already been estranged, nationalized apartments have been bought, many other things are privatized, but even if it's too late, if you want this, then ban it or don't do anything. Thirdly, in principle, I think that the legislator entered dangerous waters when he defined semi-accurate, semi-taxive cases on the basis of which the property was seized, and in order to result in the application, the records, and the next law and the possibility of future reprivatisation and compensation. Legal institutions are listed: nationalisation, agrarian reform, expropriation, sequencing, confiscation. For each of these terms, from the point of view of respect for the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, as internationally recognised human rights, from the point of view of universal protection of property in the internal legal order, can stand very different things. Confiscation was a punishment in the legal order when it was pronounced. Confiscation is only pronounced under different laws, sometimes unacceptable, now acceptable. It's really worth thinking about de confiscation when the confiscation was done under the Speculation Prevention Act, which said the property would be confiscated by a trader, a professional who sold goods more expensive than he got. That was a funny solution to a funny time. But confiscation of those who did indeed commit crimes by working with the occupiers, and it was, legitimately and legally committed, committed and definitely completed, for example in France, Norway and some other countries whose democracy and legal system are not at stake. That is why I would suggest that the Proposer consider whether this law should be withdrawn and done or tried, by accepting a number of amendments that have been given, to create something that has some legal significance. If adopted this way, it would be an opportunity for the proposings to be accused of deluding former owners by making a regulation of no importance whatsoever, or a legal and constitutional error that does not correspond to those who take care of the Constitution and law, which is an attempt to commit a future legislator. Finally, bear in mind, since you have called me, justifiably, and the right to the peaceful enjoyment of the property referred to in Article 1. The first protocol, along with the European Convention on Human Rights, and the new practice of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, when it comes to denationalisation. Ten days ago, a verdict was reached, at the request of a group of former DDR owners, resulting in the state not having a obligation to fully compensate, but that some return to the right to peaceful use of property is necessary. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Hiber, will you use the other 10 minutes? I'm done. So, the Democratic Party will decide whether this proposal will support, depending on the stance on those key amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14164	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? First the minister, then the MP of the people, Branka Bosnjak, then Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14165	Ladies and gentlemen, two good lawyers spoke before me, so I felt encouraged to discuss some issues, to make it clearer for them and for all of you both to be my position and position of government. First, I want to say that both Mr. Krasic and Mr. Hiber have told a lot of truth. I didn't write this draft, and I'm not thrilled with it, so you know. I taught civil law and I know well what denationalization is, what property is and I am a great advocate of denationalization, so I belong to those who are not quite satisfied and who would love it more and faster. This is where Professor Hiber and Mr Krasic spoke about the return of land. It's something we absolutely need, because we'll only have one five-star hotel if it stays this way. We need to deal with the issue of land privatisation and constitutional restrictions, as Professor Hiber spoke of. As for apartments that are private property, which were to be freed in 1993, under the Household Law, I believe that the right solution is to build two or three blocks and that those people who live in those apartments, who, unfortunately, did not have the right to buy apartments, move to these apartments that would be of the proper size and that the owners would enter their apartments. All the losers in this story are the owners and those who lived in those dwellings, and they could not buy them out because their rights are not equal with the rights of those who were in the dwellings. There are solutions to that, and I will stand up for it alive. As far as the restraining order is concerned, I totally agree with Professor Hiber that it should have been done a long time ago, and I think someone's ever been better. It's better to do half the injustice than to do the full injustice. I believe that the Serbian government will come up with one proposal concerning a ban on availability that will be so formalised that it will prevent the availability where it can be banned, and on the other hand, from leading to a blockade of the privatisation process. We need to find a proper compromise, to protect property rights, and on the other hand, not to cost us the privatisation process. As for Professor Hiber's comment that there is no law to regulate that another law will be passed, I would not quite agree with that. We have many laws that say that the other law will arrange something. I'm going to say, for example. A law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, which says a special law will regulate the issue of property status set out in Article 2. So many laws regulate the possibility of a different law to be arranged. Article 1 has been written on purpose in a way that covers all the assets seized without adequate market compensation. This is the basic criterion – that there is no adequate compensation and that this is an injustice, and the aim is to remove this injustice. If we had gone to the Kazuistic method of solution, there would always be a possibility that we missed something. That's why we went to one general norm that exemplifies the causa, which means the example works, states the basis for the seizure, but opens up other basics. As far as confiscation is concerned, it is certain that there have been cases of legitimate confiscation; I would not quite compare with France and Norway, because we had neither Lepen nor Quisling in our country. Our people fought against the German occupation and there were few quaslings in our country, and much more was the situation when the confiscation measure was expressed as an additional measure with the punishment that was imposed, in order to carry out the confiscation. The point of prosecution wasn't the Quislin behavior, but rather, the point was to confiscate the property. That's what I'm gonna stop at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14166	The word has the mandated representative G17 plus Branka Bosnjak, and the authorised representative of the SPS Zvonimir Stevic. That caused a mix-up, I guess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14167	Dear President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we have before us a law on the application and registration of the seized property. The law is the first step towards correcting historical injustice and is one of the evidence of democratisation of the existing political system and restoring confidence in the state. The government has decided to take the whole process of denationalisation and restitution in two steps. This law actually represents the first step and enables all interested, whether former owners, whether legitimate heirs or legal followers, to report property and to actually be recorded. The second step towards resolving the problem of restitution and nationalisation will in fact be the law on the return of the seized property and the fair compensation for the seized property. The aim of this law is, in fact, to assess in the first step the value of the seized property and, of course, to bring about one realistic, economically possible model by which the property will be returned, either by returning to nature, whether by the people exercising the right to return the property will be damaged materially or in some third way, in the form of actions, bonds or other securities of value. In its programme, the G17 plus party predicted that one of the first laws to be offered to this assembly and that this assembly must actually be a law on restitution and denationalisation. Restitution is actually the return of the seized property and it is carried out in three ways: where possible, of course in the first step, the property is returned immediately to the owner, and it is necessary to take this first step; the second model of restitution will be through financial compensation and third – through various securities of value. The very process of denationalisation is a process that will legally define the old owners and define who the title holders are taken away from property. The debtor, of course, in the return of any real estate, any fair compensation must be a state. The right to return property will be exercised by owners, heirs and legal followers. Analyzing this short bill and the G17 plus party came to the conclusion that maybe he should have some improvements. Analyzing some of the amendments that are in front of MPs, we believe that the law on recording should actually be corrected by amendments to the paragraph of suspending the right to traffic on real estate that will be recorded. We think it's one of the principles that will further restore faith to the old owners that actually the property they once owned would be their ancestors returned to them. If there are certain improvements or if we get guarantees from the Government that otherwise this registration law will be corrected, the G17 Plus party will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14168	The word has been given by MPplatmir Stevic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14169	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, today an extremely important legislative project is on the agenda, namely the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property, which should remove the shortcomings and numerous irregularities in the exercise of the right to compensation for the violently seized property on various legal grounds. However, this legislative project does not offer a final solution to the right to recover the property, i.e. compensation for damages, but represents a first step, i.e. the initial stage towards that goal. We therefore appreciate that it is essential that, after the adoption of this law, immediate access be made to the creation of a new legal project that will provide for a concrete realization of the forms and types of return of taken property and compensation for damages. The process of returning the seized property, we started the Socialists more than 10 years ago, by passing a law on the return of the taken-off country on various grounds, and above all by agrarian reform and unfulfilled ransom, and a significant portion of the property was returned to the church. The regulation of the rights of former owners to whom property was seized after World War II on the basis of rules on nationalisation, agrarian reform, confiscation, expropriation, sequestration, as well as other regulations and acts on the basis of which the property was violently seized without market value and passed from private to state property, i.e. the very complex issue. In the first years of the construction of a socialist society, their rules of law were part of the so-called so-called socialist society. revolutionary legislation. This forced way of confiscation of property is a harsh violation of the basic legal principle of the integrity of private property. In resolving this issue, which takes into account the need to compensate former owners whose assets have been taken away and the general social interest, it is necessary that the process of compensation of former owners be integrated into the process of stabilising and further developing the national economy, as well as to consider the objective economic and financial opportunities of society to make up for it. The aim of the adoption of this law is to establish the volume and value of the assets seized which should be returned to the former owners or to pay them compensation for them. The application and registration of the seized property under this law will take account of the size, scope and type of assets seized, and on the basis of these elements it will be possible to establish the value of that property, which will be of importance in the adoption of a specific law which will establish and recognise the rights in respect of return or compensation for the seized property. The provisions of this law lay down the legal basis for the confiscation of assets without a remuneration of market value or fair compensation, the property to be reported has been defined, a circle of persons entitled to report seized assets is envisaged and the application of the seized property is scheduled to be submitted to the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. A restriction has been provided for persons who cannot file an application, which are former owners who have received or have had the right to compensation for seized property in the territory of a foreign state. It also provides for documentation to be provided on the basis of the confiscation of assets, the nature of the applicant and the time limit within which the application can be submitted. Provisions of Art. 8 and 9 are provided that the application of the seized property does not constitute a request for recovery of the property or damages, but a condition that the person referred to in Article 3 of this Act submits a request in accordance with the specific law. Finally, Article 10 provides that the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. The particular problem I have come up with, which I would like to point out, is that, according to the law on the application and registration of the seized property, it will be accessed by the competent authorities, the recording and collection of documents on property in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, because of limited powers, and based on Resolution 1244, the civilian authority of UNMIK has full jurisdiction in these areas. In this direction, it is necessary to ensure co-operation with civil authority, namely UNMIK administration, in order to enable the law to be implemented effectively in both Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, if no timely accession is made to the negotiations, Serbs from the Kosovo and Metohija area and this time, as many times as before, will remain disproved. On this occasion, I would like to meet and remind the public that in 1945 a law on the ban on the return of Serbs and Montenegrins to the area of Kosovo and Metohija, which were expelled by the evil of Albanian terrorists. The law provides for the reporting of assets since 1945. What is it until 1945? So this category of expelled persons, exiled, is not covered, and I think it's a lack and a lack of this legal project. The consequence of such a law is that there has been mass exorcism, usurpation and acquisition of the property of the exiled Serbs and Montenegrins. Unfortunately, the same or similar situation has been happening for the last five years, since 200,000 Serbs left their centuries-old hearths, and all others (state, private, agricultural, cooperative and church) have been usurped by Albanians. To make the tragedy bigger, this time it seems with the presence of international peace forces. What is surprising for these five years, which is incomprehensible and unacceptable, is the attitude of the state and competent ministries towards the status and life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and the second item is towards property in Kosovo and Metohija. We're not rich enough, we're not economically strong enough to be able to treat both private and state property so irresponsiblely. We know well that the state of Serbia, i.e. the former Yugoslavia, has invested for 40 years billions and billions in the development of economy, health, education and overall society in Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to point out that state-owned, social enterprises are being sold into debauchery. I'd just like to give you three examples from where I come from: an example of the Amortizers, the Kosovos and the Ferronicles in Glogovec. The previous ministry may not have had enough time and did nothing about it. What happens is that even if a company of shares and certain funds is sold, only Albanians get it, and Serbs who have worked for 10, 20 or 30 years are left with no dinars. When it comes to that, the Ministry, and I have to say the government, is deafening. By using this pay phone, I want to tell you that back in five years, about the property, and in other areas, unfortunately nothing positive happens; that by who knows what time I'm reporting here, and this is the conversation of the deaf, no one has feelings. I must say responsibly - the policy we are leading towards Kosovo and Metohija is classical verbalism and I claim that Kosovo is rapidly slipping towards independence. To make the tragedy bigger, this time it seems with the presence of international peace forces, with whom we are negotiating these days, we negotiate and we want to accept and confess something that is illegal, that is to make it legal. This is all about the subject, sir. If you are not interested in property from Kosovo and Metohija, then go out publicly and tell that people, what is left down there, to pick up the rags and leave the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, because they no longer have the strength, that people are in a mental crisis, to protect and defend the state of Serbia in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. An eclectic example is the seizure and destruction of the usurped assets of the SPC, the construction of houses on Serbian church estates. Come out here, sir, and answer. The Serbs can't represent those who haven't received 1%, and we, the state and a certain part of the leadership are just saying that these days to spoil relations with some groups and commissions. I would like to point out that a certain association under the name "Habitat" of more than 40,000 items has so far solved barely a thousand, which clearly points to the conclusion that the property of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is literally on ice or under the auspices and ownership of Albanians, with the protection of the callers. So finally, I want to point out and point out the seriousness and weight of the problem, with a request that the competent authorities take this problem seriously and have an up-to-date approach to its resolution. I mean not only this problem, but all the problems related to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14170	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. In line with the order of MPs who applied for the word in the principled review of the bill, Milorad Belic, a MP from the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, first applied for the word. Then Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14171	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after the adoption of a law that equalised the rights of fighters from World War II, we think of those fighters who fought Fascism, I believe that this is another very important law, or bill, that will eliminate major historical injustices, since we all know that war winners have made an effort to disprove a large part of the citizens in these areas or in the premises of the former federal state after World War II. I don't think the war winners were just trying to physically remove those who represented them, as they were called, reaction, towers, enemies and so on, but they tried hard to take away all the moving and immovable property. It seems to me that there are more than 50 laws and regulations that they actually did. There are countless documents in the historical archives that confirm how it was done. Very often you can get into a situation to read that in this document the authorities suggest that as much and as quickly as possible the process of nationalisation, or confiscation, so that, after the punishment of one of the enemies of the state, the reaction, the cults or war criminals would not change these legal conditions. The press and party bulletins daily published the entire lists of those unfortunate people who were deprived of their property. But not only was property taken away in terms of immovable property – so, houses, estates, forests, on any basis, whether it was confiscation, sequencing, nationalisation or later on that agrarian reform, and colonization – but everything that could be found in the house was taken away, you can even find such information and data in documents that unequivocally confirm what I'm talking about, that they were taken away from the last sherps or inventory and so on. This is what is historically irrefutable, which is a fact and, of course, this government now has a great obligation, and a moral one, regardless of what in our political programmes one of the main provisions was certainly the integrity of private property, i.e. the protection of human, political, civil rights. It is not just this mere pre-election or marketing story or the fulfillment of programming promises; it is, above all, the need for this government and the people who make this ruling majority to correct this historical injustice. Of course, there are objections to the surface and we've heard here and serious objections, but also those that I'd put into one ideological matrix. It seems to me that such a tone of discussion leads to the conclusion that it is precisely people or political parties who feel that nothing needs to be denationalised, but rather, that such an attack on private property should be carried out once again. I think it's quite all right that the promoter did not prejudge the form of confiscation of assets and that this first member included the complete confiscation of assets without just compensation. Also, it may be one of the arguments that makes it possible for citizens to do so through certain forms and which is why it is a very short deadline - 30 June of next year, since I assume that the state that has committed the confiscation of property has data that has been taken away, what has been taken away and to what extent. However, this recording is certainly necessary, because we need to know who is being taken away, who are the heirs, under what conditions is taken away, and of course, what is very important, how much of a burden it is to the state when it comes to return, restitution or denationalisation, depends on how the country will regulate it by future legislative proposals or laws. I think a useful observation would be to explain very transparently to the citizens where I can find all these relevant data and documents. For example, in the Serbian Archives, where documents and funds are regulated to confiscate assets, based on agri-re reform, of 45 hectares up, or in the Yugoslav Archives, where there is a special Fund of State Administration of People's Goods, which was also carried out after the sequencing or confiscation of violent confiscation of property. You should explain that. And, when I've already touched the historical archives, I think it's necessary, when it comes to the three million, to how much the donation of the Republic Property Directorate is foreseen, to think about adequate equipment, especially technical equipment, these historical archives. There are about 40 of them, if we count both Kosovo territory and Metohija and Vojvodina, and I hope we're still counting. It should first and foremost provide funds for the procurement of so-called photocopier digital apparatus, because the state of these documents is very bad, the most common copy has been made or are on inadequate, thin paper and are significantly damaged. So I simply urge the promoter to inform citizens through the means of informing them where they can find their data, but also to meet these significant cultural institutions, which not only coutures with space and low incomes, I have to say that, but it is now a major blow to the archives; of course, part of the documentation is in courts, catastros and so on. I'm going to end up, in fact, with one finding, I missed to say -- maybe you should consider why the border was on 9 March 1945, because there's a completely historic and legal standoff to move that border back to 1941, especially when it came to Srem and the fact that there was an endehasia administration and that a significant portion of the seized property after that, as I said, the war winners and they didn't bring back those right owners. Finally, the SPO-NS parliamentary group really expects to enter a set of comprehensive and quality laws that will regulate this whole matter after this deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14172	The word has a folk MP, Dragor Hiber, who is not there, so Tomislav Nikolic, then Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the fate of a law that defends a minister whose ministry has not written it, and that is why we come to the sincere recognition of Mr. Minister that he is not thrilled. I don't think he's happy at all with this law and he's put a few of his ideas here that he would certainly have built into the law if he'd been involved in making this proposal. We have this accident to talk about a law that will follow this law. I don't think any of today's debaters are willing to commit themselves solely to this bill because, in fact, it's just a bad hint of another law, which, according to us, is also going to be bad, because it interferes with something that time has covered completely, in relationships that are so solidly created and founded that any touching into that kind of property would actually be the opposite of the consolidation of property rights, which the biller says will be provided with this and the law that follows. But what's interesting here is that it's the laws that were passed after 9 March 1945. I see here at least two political parties who are about to fail the ideology of their predecessors, and here I mean the SPS and DS, because their predecessors passed these laws. In the post-war assembly, Groll and the communists passed laws that produced property over property that you now want to endanger. So much for what who, which and any idea continues. Article 1 points out those who will apply when they have the right, when they acquire a new law of law, but on the basis of which they are deprived of their property, whether or not they have the right to apply for confiscated property. It's about vigilantes, war winners, and it also looks like a vigilante law to me, because you forget, when you say you'll return confiscated property, that you now threaten certain Serbian citizens not only with a valid law but with a law whose proposal is in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which suggests that it will also be brought here, a law that will confiscate the property of persons indicted before The Hague tribunal who are not voluntarily surrendered. In a year, two, five, 10, 50 years, someone in a congregation like this will sit and say: report the property that has been confiscated from you under the law on the availability of the property of the person on the Hague indictments, and have not surrendered voluntarily, because for that property, this property does not provide any, not just but no compensation. This law resembles the Law on the selection of MPs, which allowed them to vote abroad, the effects were nothing. This law resembles the Law on equalising the rights of participants in World War II, Chetnik and Partisan rights, the effects are nothing. I ask those who call for the correction of this historic injustice – how many Chetniks have obtained the right to retire and how many, by the law that you have adopted here in the Assembly, will be entitled to any compensation for their participation in the war? Article 3 — natural persons or their successors, i.e. legal followers, shall file a declaration of seized property. The application is submitted to the Republika Srpska Property Directorate on a form you've already printed here, but I don't care much about that. What individuals gain the right to apply, do only Serbian citizens, do Serbian-Montenegro citizens, do foreign citizens? Did the law deal with the obligation of the property to apply by June 2006? What happens if no foreigner logs in by 2006, will you be able to... And I really think this is a legal precedent. It is not true, Mr. Minister, that this law indicates that some matter will be regulated by another law; this law indicates that it will be regulated by another law. There's a big difference between that. There is no law that can obligate a future legislator, so that by June 2006, it will be the reporting of assets, so it will take a year to assess that property, so you will have regular elections if there is no extraordinary parliamentary elections. Will you be able to oblige some new assembly to pass such a law at all, and if it dares to pass it, to bring it in by not putting it out of force first by some provision of this law? Every time the SRS had a chance to declare such a law, we said we didn't see the basis, the time base, the starting date, so from which date you returned the property. You said it here on 9 March 1945, and Mr. Aligrudic spoke about 1944, but it's not in the law, and I'm asking you how you got here by 9 March 1945. Wasn't it after World War I that the country was taken away from the citizens of Serbia, wasn't it after the Balkan wars, didn't the Turks have a deed on property, almost all over Serbia's territory, and those deedes are kept in their imperial archives? Was the assets taken from Serbia by the folks, the Germans, taken from Serbia before 9 March 1945? After. Have they come before, since you in these three or four years suggest this law, that they have visited houses and properties – they have. Are the railways which have not long gone through the Vojvodina because of them – yes, they are. Do they know exactly where anyone lived, who lives in those houses today? You, dear children, your parents, some of you have moved into those houses and for the first time seen some parts of furniture they didn't even know existed. How are you going to get that back, how are you going to change the structure of the population, how are you going to change the culture, the majority religion, how many European conventions are you going to break if you dare enter something like this? Let's move forward, you make direct commitments to the members of the 8th and 9th, and you tie your hands to the future majority in the National Assembly, as this future bill must look, and you say that the submission of the confiscation of the property is not a request for restitution, but a condition that the request is submitted in accordance with a special law. Is there more senseless? A condition in accordance with the law that will be passed. You can only meet the requirements of existing laws, not the terms of the law that may be passed and may be brought into text that is compatible with this text, with the text of this law. Articles 8 and 9 directly undertake a new law; Article 2: ′′The application for the exercise of the right under the special law of Article 1 of this Article may only be submitted if the application of the seized property has been lodged within the time limit laid down in Article 6 of this Act. ′′ And then Article 10. I don't think Minister Parivodic saw this bill and didn't come here today to defend it. This wouldn't work out for you, Mr. Minister, you say this: "Returning taken from property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. "Well, the return of this property will be governed by a special law. That's something else. You're now suggesting that there will be two laws. If it already says that the return of property will be governed by a special law, then do not single out church and religious communities. Anything that is returned will be returned by special law or by law and by special law can mean more laws. That's what you and the lawyers do. This confiscation of the property is so shrub, the sections that we will have to respect are so small, so it says: the species (room, house, business space, land and other) and the area in meters square, municipalities, place, street, number, cadastrian municipality, name, or name of the person who owns the immovableity. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, since you've only forecasted three million dinars in the budget, and I don't think the law of the Constitution is in line, and what if hundreds of thousands of former owners show up? What if there are tens of thousands of applications? What kind of service in the Republic Property Directorate is equipped to examine all this, to assess property, every square? You say it will be regulated by a special law. As long as no special law is passed, you won't be able to estimate the value of the property, because the law will say if it's the value on the day of the confiscation, whether it's today's value and how it's going to assess the investment that someone had in that property. We're talking about factories, not just apartments and protected tenants. I'm not sure the bill's intention is to regulate the return of property by law. I think this is more like a story, a wave. You've heard that some other countries that are either on their way or admitted to the European Union have restitution of property and now let's run along. I'm not sure this could be the basis and that this is even necessary for any law on the return of property. Write down a bill on the return of property that will contain all these members, which will have the part in which the property is reported, the part in which the asset is estimated and the part in which it will write that the property will be compensated. This opening law is nothing. This could then be a regulation that follows the law, a regulation signed by the minister, a form signed by the minister, not the Republic Property Directorate. The law has already, as its component, provided for a form of application. There's too much appeal to this bill to make it look really serious. So I'm asking you to reconsider. It's obvious there'll be plenty of people who aren't up for this bill. I think there are a lot of MPs who know that this is inexecutable, that it is inconclusive. Then you should honestly tell those who seek back the property that was taken from their fathers, grandfathers, on any basis, whether it's possible or not. As far as we're concerned, we're never going to vote for a law that would have changed relations acquired 60 years ago, and I'm asking you to provide some legal certainty, so that no changes in government will be made to the laws and relations acquired at the time of the previous government, because then you won't have any buyers, any seller. Today we have heard from you or from some representative of the ruling majority that a law will be passed that prevents traffic between some immovable property that will be subject to some special law. Will the sale of that property be accelerated? What the buyer will do until the law is passed, what will the one who has that property in his hands, see that you will forbid it from traffic, would want to sell it; only an uninformed buyer, who does not know that you are preparing a law, will appear and buy that property. Then what's it gonna be? I'm asking you honestly, in the privatisation process, you sold a lot of factories that were taken away after 9 March 1945, did you even think about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14174	The People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic has the word, and let the MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14175	Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to a group of MPs whose job is to deal with these very topics, at least through membership in committees that treat this topic. I mean the Privatisation Committee and the Finance Committee. I must say, as a member of these two committees, I have numerous contacts, along with my colleagues, not only with associations dealing with the protection of private property and leagues that are trying to denationalise or restitution of our society as soon as possible, but also with a number of citizens who also have a desire to solve this problem. In my job description, there was a timely conversation with a number of investors who also wanted to settle in this area in order to be true investors in a regulated country that would finish a big deal by correcting a number of injustices that were committed after or during World War II by law on restitution, denationalisation and before that by the Rehabilitation Law. I will also remind the DSS at the end of 2002, to correct one of the previous speakers, submitted to this assembly a law on denationalisation, which was confirmed by those who read it. With a little change and an addition to that law, I think we could go into a serious story about denationalisation or restitution, about who prefers it. It would, of course, be a good condition for us, with one quality higher, to happen through the necessary investment. Unfortunately, we are getting a bill today that is, and I am now going to say, by magic, as a member of the Finance Committee. He surprised many MPs, prevented serious public debates and prevented even some possible amendments that would correct something that was wrong in this law and, on the other hand, such amendments that would not prevent the privatisation of our society, since there is one amendment that would put the moratorium on that property that would be in some future period of privatisation. So, these are all the handicaps of this legislative proposal, and I would like much more, as a folk MP, to have a real promoter here, I mean Minister Dinkic, not Mr Parivodic, who only performs the job of the promoter and has a very unpleasant duty, in my view. What I think would be relevant is that maybe a good part of this law is only part of one serious restitution law. Of course, the restitution or denationalization itself obliges those who do so to write it down first and see what needs to be denationalized, how much resources are needed. I heard from Minister Dinkic on the Privatisation Committee, which is suspected. From the previous government, we could also hear from late Prime Minister Djindjic about the amounts between 16 billion and 60 billion euros. The figures heard from Minister Dinkic on the Privatisation Committee ranged from 6 billion to even, mentioning what Minister Dinkic himself may have said with a lapus, 600 billion euros. So it is necessary to record and I think it is unnecessary to set deadlines, especially if we take into account that a good part of our diaspora will not be able to report the seized property until the deadline prescribed here in the law; I mean the deadline of 30 June 2006, as referred to in Article 6. Also, the disadvantage is that this law treats only the property that was seized after 9 March 1945, when we know that NDH has spread to Zemun and that a good portion of the property can also be lost. I will also repeat what the predecessor has said, under Article 3 of the application of the seized property under the provisions of this law, the natural persons to whom the property has been seized by the application of the rules laid down in Article 1 of this Act or by their successors. So they have the right to file a report. Be careful now, in Article 4: "The provisions of this law do not apply to former owners or their successors, i.e. legal followers, whose law or international agreement lays down the right to compensation for the property seized on the burden of a foreign state. "There's a question here about what's wrong with the Vojvodina folks, what about at least 30% of the Vojvodina property, do they have rights, whether the late Josip Broz Tito and Branto made a contract somewhere in the late 1970s or not? Not that we know of. Of course, there were innocents, but we may also be recorded by those who have committed numerous crimes in this nation. So these are all issues that need to be regulated by a more serious legal project. Of course, we took the first step yesterday that will put us in a circle of European countries and of course we must respect the basic principles. We want to go to Europe, we need to respect European principles. It's a shame this hasn't been thought about since the early 1990s. If we had thought similarly then, even in this way, perhaps the wrong way, we would have fewer problems when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, when we talk about the property of our people in Croatia and BiH. Unfortunately, we didn't think about it in time. It's never too late to think about it. What is needed is a law that will be applicable, which will be just and that will allow those who come into our country to be sure to enter the property that is absolutely arranged. What do you hear from critics? It is heard – why is it necessary for citizens to file an application, does this record not belong to the state? Unfortunately, I have to confirm, and I think it's going to say something about the minister, that our state doesn't have the files on the property, that in many municipalities there's absolute chaos in the property-legal sector, that you don't have a fixed cadastre, or what's written in the country's registered courts. So it's not possible for the state to do all that. Maybe it's in the Duke's condition more arranged. Believe me, the souther, the sadder. So it takes citizens to co-operate with their country to know what property it is. It seems to me that there are two directions here: either that this law is withdrawn or that we hear from the motion - the Republic Government one clear promise that, as soon as possible, a law or a bill will be passed here that will regulate all these issues. I propose that the Republic Government seriously consider the draft law submitted to the Assembly by the end of 2002. The Privatisation Committee came from that legal project. MPs from different parties are willing to raise the issue of restitution and denationalisation from this law and some other legal projects in the right way, of course, with previous regulation of rehabilitation issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14176	The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, and let the MP Bosko Ristic be prepared, but I don't know if there will be time today, depending on the time spent by Mr Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14177	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I congratulate you all on the signed Study on Implementation and the start of the Stabilisation and Association Process, and in this process we will probably think a little differently, even this law. You just heard Mr. Matic. Unfortunately, I must say, as well as Mr. Minister, that with many solutions from this law I am not satisfied. And if this law were to pass through the Privatisation Committee, it would have been fiercely criticised and probably wouldn't have gone through. I belong to a party who has always advocated that privatisation cannot be completed before the denationalization is done. There is no multiplicity of the injustice that has been present in this society, here, for 60 years. In this way, this government assumes upon itself the legacy of this inherited curse of unimplemented denationalization. This way you don't solve it. All of us who deal with European integration issues know that very quickly in the stabilisation and accession process in that agenda we will agree on a number of issues; do you know that among the first three are human rights, and the right to property is one of the basic human rights. We're going to have to adopt a law on denationalisation by the end of this year, most likely. This law, even for me, could be acceptable, but as the first phase of the law on denationalisation, or vomiting, in only one part. It's a non-serious state that admits there's no record of what that same state was doing, no matter what it was five, six decades ago, because we're the legal followers of all those states that were ahead of us. If we know on the basis of which laws, we have in several proposals a list of laws on the basis of which the property was taken away, then we have access to the court records and we were able to form one review of the property taken away, and then admit to the citizens – we publish a review of everything that has been taken away, and for the missing part (because it has, we know that in Vojvodina there are logs of land books, that burning parts of the archives) we need to report those who are not on that list. That would be a lot more congratulating than one of these proposals that's ahead of us. Since we have in the Ministry and the Department of Returns of Assets and here present Mr. Želimir Zunic, who is the head of the Department, unfortunately, I must say that if this department only made this bill didn't earn water, let alone salt and bread. I expected that department to make a list of the seized assets and to already comply with the draft law on denationalisation. Such suggestions, to remind you, I alone have a large number ahead of me, some of which are even of the authorities. Here is the first in front of me since August 2001 – the law on the return of property and compensation, the Ministry of Justice and local self-government. The attempt was also made by the previous government; the 2002 DSS proposal. We have a whole series of suggestions for groups of citizens. In particular, what do I object to this law? First, the timetable – 9 March 1945. Why? You also heard from Mr. Matic, and the NDH and the Ustasha took the property from Srem, and the communists responded and did not return it. We inherit sin. There are far more honest proposals, such as the DSS proposal, and even the previous governments, in which no timeline is set at all, but only lists the laws on which the property was seized. That's a lot more congratulatory than a cut like this. And what about that property that was taken before 9 March 1945, etc.? Article 9, in my opinion, can only bring great costs to this country. For what? This law does not deprive the right to property, and Article 9 says that one who has not applied within a certain period does not have the right to appear with a request. What does that mean? That means, if the denationalisation law takes over the provisions of this law to take away the right to property, that any such case will fall in Strasbourg, and at a huge cost to the state, I guarantee it, because I know how the international court in Strasbourg reacts. Therefore, in short, our party tried to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act in Article 3, which defines the subject of privatisation, except for the seized property from the sale now, because it is more impossible. I once said here that in the last third of the game, the rules of the game don't change. We would stop the privatisation process if we touched under that law. However, it does not mean that all the injustice that has been done and accumulated in the past decades does not need to be corrected. Privatisation touches part of the property, which is the property that is incorporated by social enterprises. There are many assets that are not covered and will not be sold under that law. Let's also pay cash, and there's a lot of property that can be returned in physical form. Just once again, ideas have come up, among other things, about some real economic model. That is what he spoke of in the previous term and then Minister Djelic when he said literally – do not let the previous owners whose property was seized expect to get rich suddenly, he will get a share. What does that mean? Gentlemen, either we are or we are not just, a girl can't be a little pregnant. What does that mean? Even if by this law we were to determine the value of the seized property, so we find that it is 60 billion, then we say, we can only return six. That's not a good solution. Let it be one way, whatever you want, so let it be valuable papers that our great-grandsons will inherit, but if the property comes back it must come back in real form. Therefore, as a member of the parliamentary group, I will respect the democratic majority and the decision it has made. Basically, I don't think this law is a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-13-0.u14178	Thank you. We don't have time for today's work. Tomorrow, the First Messenger of the People will be Bosko Ristic, and then the People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic. We finish today and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
