ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15193	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 158 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and Velimir Stanojevic. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT (specificity) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the search for the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by the People's MP Verica Rade, and that the applicant for the amendment and the MP Zoran Krasic took part in the search. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15194	Mr. Mihailovich, you were quick to cope, straight up to the assembly. Here, let me tell you what this is about. So it's the Government Act. The law has come under heavy criticism from Serbian Radical Party MPs because, with all other lacks of legal-formal nature, it is completely illiterate. This was said by colleagues from other parties who criticise the draft government law. Since the creator of this law, but not authorized to come forward and tell us something, present Mr Balinovac tried to tell us where it exists that in some law in Serbia, which has ever been voted by the National Assembly, is used like this, or in the first position of Article 5, it is said: "The government has the property of the Republic of Serbia, if the law is not otherwise determined. "And beneath what Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke, supervision of constitutionality and legality, not that there is no linguistic or essential meaning, but that it is inappropriate for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass laws which infinitative have in its title. I truly believe, although I will succeed in the day to check, that this law is only an unfavorable translation from the Croatian Parliament or from Bosnia and Herzegovina, some of those countries in the environment, which in the worst possible way, have disabled and expelled the Serbian people from those areas. If the government is in a position to offer us such laws then, in addition to all these problems we have in the state, we have an incompetent government and incompetent legislators. This problem that arises because of the possible free interpretation of Article 5, which Mrs Radeta explained yesterday and asked to delete, is something that poses a latent danger as long as individuals, as there are in this government, are in power. If said, "The government can empower its member to dispose of part of the property of the Republic of Serbia", and yesterday, a colleague of Radeta and counterpart Krasic told you that it is amazing that this formulation is in law, because it can, in the broadest possible sense, be interpreted or, God forbid, be misused by an individual. If the promoter knows that the Government is a collective body and if he tried to explain the non-acceptability of the Radete amendment to convince us that it is not really a substance and that we have misread it, then why, in his explanation, the proposer interferes in all of this and it collapses and through just an explanation. Then he says, "Individual cases of availability within the meaning of Article 5(2). The bill aims to create the possibility that an authorised member of the government representing the government can, in particular, make part of the property of the Republic of Serbia available, based on the government's prior authority. This solution comes from the very nature of things, given that the government is a collegiate body." If you say so yourself in the second position of reason that the Government is a collegiate body, then how can you install such a provision and why you need this position of Article 5(2)? So you see for yourself from your argument that you have defined well, which is defined by the Constitution, that it is the government that has the property of the Republic of Serbia. Then it's completely unnecessary for you, and you yourself admitted it in an explanation for not accepting the amendment that we were right, that is, Mrs. Radeta when she filed it. All the way to the end as we go, these expressions appear appropriate to those who have never had their own language, but they had Serbians to steal and mutilate it, that is, twist and invent some words. We cannot accept that we have such a law and that it can at all be applicable, especially because of these completely pointless and unnecessary things. God forbid that individuals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through someone's broad interpretation, would have the opportunity to dispose of the property, as long as it would lead us, because in numerous affairs, their corruption moves so far, we know very well that they had the goal of increasing their own bank accounts and doing good to themselves and their family members, and nothing concrete and good to do for the people and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15195	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Group on 5th, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. The amendment requires that this unfortunate formulation, which was given in the bill and under which the government can authorise its member to dispose of part of the property of the Republic of Serbia, be deleted. This is necessary for a number of reasons, and first because the government, in accordance with the law, is authorised to have on behalf of the Republic of Serbia assets held in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. The arguments we heard from the promoter that the Government is a collegiate body, so that it is necessary for a certain member to be authorised, not drink water, at the very least. The question is whether the government has been a collegiate body so far or whether it is something new that is now being introduced into practice. The question is, how has the government functioned so far? Whether they were all holding hands and going together and carrying out certain activities for the possession of property in the possession of the Republic of Serbia or until now, in accordance with the general standards, the government had given its members the authority to have certain assets available in the manner in which the Government decided. The reason given is not because, when you say someone is authorized to have some part of the property, it is under the circumstances that someone can alienate that property, that they can donate it, that they can rent it or do anything else with that property. Such a formulated power to dispose of property is practically general, that someone who at one point is authorized to dispose of any property, he can do so in the next period, can change that decision, so for example one day give someone, one person on free use or a legal person, and the next day change his decision and so on. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, it is said that this position 2 is necessary for the reason that it lays down the rule that only a member of the Government can dispose of part of the property, and not the other person appointed or employed in the ministries. Now, it would be interesting to explain to us, Mr. Loncar, why not have some other person at the ministry dispose of it, if it's the government's authority. What would be the problem, if there were anything more natural, if the deputy minister or assistant minister were authorized to sign on behalf of the government, for example, an estrangement contract. If the government makes such a conclusion, I think not only should it not prohibit the government from authorising assistants or deputy ministers, but it could empower any employee employed in the ministry. I don't see why the government couldn't do that. If the government makes such a decision, I don't see why law would prevent anyone from acting in a certain way on behalf of the government. However, it seems to me that you are trying this government law to in some way affect the future, and you have come from yourself. This is especially evident in those provisions relating to ministers, and where you have provided for a practically unlimited number of assistants, advisers, special and special advisers. It is truly amazing what kind of people will be chosen as ministers, if you predict that they are illiterate, that they have absolutely no ability, and then, besides the entire ministry, they will need a number of special advisers, special advisers, besides the secretary. Does it make sense to choose such ministers at all, or should you find certain professionals? You in this way practically predict that even in the next government, if you have a chance to put it together, you will choose people not by the criteria of expertise, but that you will do as you did in this government and that you have made inter-party compromises, so the leaders and prominent party officials could be... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... They had to be in the ministries, regardless of their lack of the necessary qualities. So you say, never mind, the minister doesn't have to be capable of anything, but that's why we'll give him 20 advisors, so one of them will know what he's doing. I think you should think about this. This amendment is certainly good and will not essentially prevent the government from functioning. The government will be able to do it like all previous governments. I repeat, on the basis of the general rules on granting power of attorney, they will be able to empower a member, as the Government does today... (Chairman: Please bring the end, you've exceeded the time.) )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done; and in previous years, and what all governments have done. I really don't know why such a rogue definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15197	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for both you and the citizens of Serbia who are watching this to be clear about what this is all about, I will read the first article of the bill, and then we will go in line. Article 5 says: "The government has the property of the Republic of Serbia, if the law does not specify anything else. The government can authorise its member to dispose of part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. "In two sentences of Article 5 of the Law, two absolute inadmissibility. I understand the author of the law, at the moment of his poetic inspiration this Article 5 was brought to light. However, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, a poet can be a politician, a legislator can't be a poet, and he can't bring into the law a free poetic form, a breeze, leaves rustling. I know this is the October government, as it was before, and everything will be in October until it comes to the head of a Serbian government made up of Serbian radicals. Of the law, although it is the October government, it cannot be made burlesque, although it looks like it. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, has submitted an amendment to delete Article 5. Without this Article 5, the law would be as it would be and nothing would be denied to him except this laugh - if what else is not, because there is nothing else in the law. An explanation of why the amendment is not accepted says - Article 5 provides for a general rule that the government has the property of the Republic of Serbia (so far the governments have had the property of the Republic of Serbia, which is the head of which they rule), if the law does not specify anything else. So here again the writer underlines, the poet underlines, and in an explanation why the amendment hasn't adopted this one - what else. As the availability of assets implies the taking of concrete actions within the limits of power, it is necessary for the Government, as a college body, to have legal powers in certain cases of the power of its member to dispose of parts of the property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from 2000 to 2000, as far as it was made available to this day, part of the property, because individuals did not have the widest hands to cover all the assets of the Republic of Serbia, but they were partly available, you have not yet found them and are not yet where they should be, although the newspaper is full of affairs of those who have had part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. This is how the government will empower them, so far they've been working unauthorized, and for this they'll serve as prisoners, but this is how the government will empower them, so far they've been stealing for their own account and for their own boss, and now they'll be stealing under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia... (Glass: Ali, for your own sake.) ..... Same for your account. Even at the expense of an associate, though. Mr Minister, accept the amendment of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta, delete this Article 5. It doesn't mean anything to you in the law. I'm sorry, just a second position, where the government can empower someone, nothing will change you. The law may be, if you accept other amendments to the SRS, both applicable and acceptable. This way, whatever else you wipe out, so the people don't laugh at us. Maybe tomorrow someone will translate our laws, as you translate. I'm not really thinking about you, I'm thinking about the government. They translate all the laws on the side, so maybe someone will "cut out" laughing when they take our laws to translate and possibly apply, and there it says - what else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15199	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, in the case of Article 5. The proposal for a government law can be seen in the nature of the law submitted by the government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS Parliament Club, a colleague of the Verica Radeta, has submitted an amendment to Article 5, which requires that Article 2 be deleted. The position of Article 5 - The government can authorise its member to have part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean in practice? This could mean that if this government, too, is burdened with various corruption affairs, as is the case with individual members of the government, about which the public and the press write every day, and they are persistently silent, of course by these silences and confirm that they are corrupt, which primarily refers to Mr Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, when it comes to the Ericsson affair, and many other affairs that are related to G17 plus. And now, imagine if we have a government in which we have corrupt ministers and vice-presidents of the government, then even if by law we can allow the government to empower one of these members of the government. So, in this case, the bill submitted by the government to the National Assembly puts the government of the Republic of Serbia first and thus minimises the legislative authority, that is, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This Article 5(2) is a dangerous member, especially when it comes to the fact that certain ministers and how corrupt they are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the SRS believes that Article 5(2) should be deleted and I hope that you will vote in the voting day, of course, for the amendment of the SRS. And as far as the bill itself is concerned, it is not precisely arranged and does not edit this matter in the right way. In this Article 5, a colleague before me has made it clear, in Section 1, we can say that there are language errors and that no, of course, Serbian language is used, as SRS Deputy President Tomislav Nikolic said. So the government should propose laws that are precise and clear, which will precisely regulate matter that is important for the functioning of the system institutions. In this case, this bill is not even well written, and as far as the matter itself needs to be regulated, it does so in an inaccurate way. The MPs of the SRS have tried their amendments to make this ill-written law an office. If you vote on these amendments in the voting day, that law will have the forms it should have. As the law is written, it is not good and it is clear on this Article 5, what is the nature of this proposal for a government law, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15201	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I felt the need to come out and talk about article 5 of this bill, but on one very different formal, language side, because when I was talking about the Insurance Act, I warned the minister and his assistants that there were a lot of mistakes and then I realized that I might have exaggerated, that there was a little bit of distaste and I stopped doing it. I've warned myself that they're putting on a comma that can change a lot about the meaning of the law, or some point, at all some sign of an interruption, and I see now that there's a need to really react to this, and from now on, I'm going to read the laws, and I'm just going to do it just to point you to irregularities. That will be my task. When I was talking about the tourism law, I also said - I wasn't invited to evaluate the law numerically, but I was invited not to give over, as an educational worker. The one who prescribed it, and I didn't see it, I gave a positive grade, so I told the law that it could pass, but the law can't get a big grade because it's obvious it's overwritten. This law is also probably all or part prescribed, according to this term, which is now from the official Croatian language. Some of them are hiding behind it. It is not said with us - if anything else is envisaged, it is well explained by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is also understood in this area and a lot of readings, and here among you there are experts, and I am surprised that no one has found himself to at least review the law, to warn us that we would not be dealing with this. I'm just going to point out that there are two aspects of my view of this congregation. The laws are one thing, the MPs are another. The laws must be written quite correctly, as they will be officially published. The people will read it, manage it, and respect it. And as for the mistakes that the MPs sometimes make, they should be forgiven, for the MPs do not all have to be told not by the intellectuals but by the highly educated, for there are also those who are highly educated and are not intellectuals. So one MP will be used in a language that is suitable for his end to be understood by people. And that's something to forgive. If anyone says... a welder, or a prosecutor, instead of a prosecutor and a welder, it's not a big mistake. He's understood there by his listeners. So try to make a law. And when I was talking about tourism, I also stressed -- make sure that it works for the team, one expert team, because there we asked the Minister to replace the word -- the Ministry, which means that one team is doing one job, so you probably need to have someone on that team who lectures the text of the law to make these laws clear here, and as you say -- transparent. Don't mind me, I didn't want to answer, but in the future, if I find any mistakes, I'll report to criticise you, just to criticize you, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15203	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sure the Minister, Mr. Loncar, as competent and person holding personal integrity, wouldn't allow himself, as an authorised minister of local self-government, to, say, have the property of local self-government and to have some of that property at his disposal, because you know all the time in the pre-election campaign, we talked about having to decentralised the government. Obviously in this way we are centralizing the government as it is, so I'm sure that exactly the competent minister, Mr. Loncar, will accept the amendment of the Verice Radete. After all, a number of SRS deputies have already come out for a pay phone and explained why this amendment should be accepted. 'The government's explanation is almost on the whole side, which shows that Ms. Verica Radeta has hit the topic and that she has shown her full argument, because the government as a collegiate body needs to collegiately represent the interests of citizens, should not be partially, individually, party to represent the interests, and thus try to empower a single minister, who, according to their criteria, is competent, or obedient, to do a job that the whole government should do. The tasks to be, they say, should only have a member of the government whose duties are most linked to the procedures and actions to be undertaken in the context of the availability, but not by others appointed or persons employed by ministries, special organisations and government services. Well, we often have a situation where ministers are justified on official travel, making contracts, agreements, economic dialogue with other countries. If, at that very moment, that resolute minister should sign a certain contract and be in charge of certain assets, and outside the country is, who will do it for him, if it is defined here that only a member of the government can, which means that individual segments of the ministry in charge of the area should be authorized persons. It is obvious, therefore, that it is not clear why only the minister, who was set up by the case, would be in a position of privilege compared to the assistants, and each minister has more or less a number of advisers and assistants who are as competent as he is. I think that's exactly why this part of the article should be deleted. After all, we've had a really great experience in the past, where there's a lot of affairs behind us. To remind you, the sugar affair, the affair over Knjiz Miloš, Erikson's affair, the bank affair, and really based on that experience, we are not sure that we can allow one person to manage the property of all Serbian citizens again. For this very reason, I am sure that as MPs, we should articulate the needs of citizens and that most citizens, or almost all of them in this bill, will understand what the parliamentary majority, or representatives of the government, ministers, who represent the current parliamentary majority, and according to all the surveys of the agencies, starts with Strategic Marketing, have somewhere between 10% and 13% of the popularity. This can only be interpreted in one single way, to know that early elections are on the threshold, to know that they have only ten to 13% of the vote and that in the best possible way they want to empower individual ministers, because more these ministers cannot, nor are they able to rule Serbia and that they represent citizens in the best possible way. That is why I ask you, Minister, to accept the Verice Radete amendment and to show in the best way that you are not of those who want further affairs, such as corruption and many other affairs, to re-emerge in the Republic Parliament and that you do not want to empower individuals, who have already shown that they have abused their position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15205	The word is from Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15206	Dear People's MPs, I have come to support the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Ms. Radeta. I will not do this as my esteemed colleague Penezic did and I will not look back on the language aspect of that member, because he is a major expert and is a professor of literature, although I fully agree with him, but I will speak as a lawyer and as a lawyer. Namely, this member speaks of the availability of the property of the Republic of Serbia. Come on, and somehow let's agree with attitude 1, Mr. Minister, that the government can dispose of the property of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a legal person, has its property, has its own organization, has its powers, its statutes, its own rules. But how will you explain to the legal public and the profession that the property of the state of the Republic of Serbia can be held by an individual? That's not legally possible. So I'm telling you that the legal norm, as an essential part of every member, of every law, besides being clear and precise, must be legally possible. It is impossible for one individual to have the property of the Republic of Serbia. It can only be a legal person, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this particular case. So I ask you and I appeal to you to listen to these voices of SRS reason and to adopt this amendment to my distinguished colleague, Ms. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15207	The word is Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15208	Ladies and gentlemen, a very serious amendment and hence the support of members of the SRS parliamentary group. On Article 5(2), Ms. Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment, where the second attitude is deleted for a very serious reason, as my colleagues have generally said for what. And the gentlemen I have in mind for the good part of the estate of the Dedinj, the DOS gentlemen, are already at their disposal. I think it would be too much to get both EPS or NIS and I don't know any big companies in Serbia. You promised them, people in Serbia, employment, now you're restructured and you're firing workers. I want to cite a living example of individual ministers from the government acting, which is Mr. Velimir Ilic, who is practically a railway, privatized the traffic as if it were his grandfather's. Mr. Dinkic also resords as if he had inherited from the Chukunda, the ministry. Furthermore, Mr. Naumov is very unserious and charlatanically acting when it comes to electricity, our biggest system. And based on these examples of how they are, I think it's quite right to support this amendment and not accept the law it's proposed. I mean, there are other phenomena. It could happen to someone you have the authority to dispose of some major property, some kind of health disorder. Maybe a man's master's in his old days, and then he hits him on the head with a book, as our youth says, and then there's a disturbance with him, and he's causing some big problems in the economy. Unfortunately, the affair has been much since 2000, so here we go. It's a sugar affair, "Venčac", "Pautnik", "Yugomedia" and others, and soon probably "Record" Rakovica. Therefore, there is a large number to list now all of your affairs, which your ministers have been carrying out these years. The government promised employment to workers, but of that only layoff, restructuring and the rest. Mr. Minister, for you of course she's not involved in any affair. You're being told that you work mostly in one ministry, you're actually running one ministry, and you're working for another ministry. They say you are a tourist guide at a certain agency "Karla del Ponte Tours", and the airline you drive to The Hague is "Solana Arvejz". Your heart is also, as is your colleague in the government, gentlemen, in your wallet. If we don't do something in a very short time, gentlemen, our path to destruction is secured.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15209	The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me the shortest one sentence - Aeroturs says. You know where I work, I don't work in the government, I work at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and I get paid there, and if there's a line, if it's established, it's established thanks to the increased international credibility of this government, and it's two-way, and thanks to that, maybe one of those Hague indictees will soon find the president of the missing party. As far as this amendment is concerned, the government has been working on finding legal solutions to prevent corruption by state authorities since the first day of its term of office. I will only remind you that among the first laws adopted by this assembly on a proposal from the Government last April, and certainly the first law to come out of the ministry to which I am headed, is the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Performing Public Functions. As far as this amendment is concerned, I think that such a solution is legally possible and that it does not constitute a source of possible abuse, and thus corruption. In the opening part of the exhibition, I said that my relationship with all amendments would be based on their quality, not on the fact on which sides, opposition or positional, MPs would be submitted. In the current discussion of this amendment, I am not convinced that a member of the proposed law is not good, but I am certainly convinced that there is a certain doubt, although with representatives of opposition representatives, that such a formulation can lead to possible abuse in the work of future governments that will apply this law when it comes into force and I would not like to leave this assembly, and I believe that the majority of these laws will support, and that any doubt remains about possible corruption. For that reason, on behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15211	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this amendment has been accepted, with just a few notes to say why it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment. Paragraph 1 states that the government has the property of the Republic of Serbia, if the law does not specify anything else. The Legislative Authority, the National Assembly, hereby empowers the Government to dispose of property, leaving the possibility of an exception, which is provided for if the law does not specify anything else. So, again, the National Assembly gives the government the opportunity to make extraordinary assets available. In both cases, both in principle and with the exception, the powers to dispose of the property that the Government has go through the National Assembly, so that there is double control of the availability of the property of the Republic of Serbia, and this position 2 makes one unencourageable exception by making it possible, without the control of the legislative authority, to have the property of the Republic of Serbia at a small door. I think that exception should not exist and it is good that the government has accepted this amendment, because it is better that there is double control, control of the legislative authority and the executive authorities, because it is the property of the Republic of Serbia, it is the largest property, that is all we have, which is the most valuable and richest property in this country. There shouldn't be volunteering, there shouldn't be an individual deciding on the funds worth tens and tens of millions of dollars or euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15213	Mr. Milajić, since this amendment has been accepted, I find that this amendment is an integral part of the bill, so there is no reason to discuss it anymore. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 6 of the bill has a marginal title that says - Oversight of constitutionality and legality. So if there is oversight over it, then it is not control over whom, to whom, but control over whom, which; or control is without control. I have to comment, because it's about the downfalls, not the position of a positional or opposition party, or the attitude from any party's program or the ruling majority, but the fall, the coma, the kim-whatm. Our proposal is to delete Article 6 not because of the declines, although this would be sufficient reason for a serious proposing, but because Article 6 of the proposed text reads (paragraph 1): "The government oversees the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, the city of Belgrade, public enterprises, institutions and public authorities". Furthermore, Article 2 says, "The government can suspend the execution of their general acts and based individual acts, a solution that takes effect when it is announced in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and which ceases to apply if the government does not initiate the procedure for assessing constitutionality and legality in the next 15 days." This member has to be deleted. If, for the sake of stubbornness, not to use some more difficult words, intentions and feelings of ruling with 126 MPs, still adopt, make sure that this goes to the assessment of constitutionality and legality and that it falls to the Constitution of the Court, because it is directly contrary to Article 125. The Constitution of Article 1(1), as the Government cannot, by law on its own organisation and way of working, assume defined powers and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. It can't and there's no interpretation that you could convince anyone, with a good fall or a bad fall as it stands, that the government can control constitutionality and legality. The above is that the provisions of this article do not define that the Government will oversee constitutionality and legality, so that we will oversee as Government, whether we will take as auditors representative samples of acts of local parliaments, public enterprises, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and see what can be done by these acts, or if something is wrong. And who will do that, Justice Minister, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government Minister, Police Minister, who will say, I made a random sample of 16 municipalities in Novi Sad, four documents of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and two public enterprises, and I found one document and here I am overseeing constitutionality and legality. Secondly, on the basis of which the Government will assess whether the local self-government has passed a legal act, how it will do so, which bodies, and if the Government is thought to take care of the application of the Constitution and the law, then it should write, then it is known who is in charge of taking care of the application of the Constitution and the law, rather than overseeing constitutionality and legality, because there is nothing to do, there is no way to do so, because it is contrary to the existing Constitution. If you want it to be in the future constitution, I don't mind, but even then it can't say in an invalid crash. What about the other crimes? Why did the government choose to oversee the constitutionality and legality of local self-government, the Assembly of Vojvodina and public enterprises? Why didn't she choose to involve in the general case the crimes of various kinds, easy theft, heavy theft, mugging, so the government will assess what she's going to do. It is simply a provision that you must delete from this law, by accepting amendments by the government or by voting in the Assembly, because it is not at all a matter of whether the Democratic Party would prescribe otherwise, whether or not it is in accordance with the policy of any party. It's about, if you want to read, the text of a law that's inadmissible. So I'm not talking about a political intention that can be read from this article, which is catastrophic. So the political intention that can be read, I have no reason to do it, but it can be read, that the government wants special powers, which are not given by the Constitution, in the control of local self-government, public enterprises and the Assembly of the province of Vojvodina. Where did you get your rights? It may be the way to conjecture the debate, but I repeat that I will not do it, but I want a proper fall and a member of the law in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15215	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15216	The Serbian Radical Party did not submit an amendment to this member because before us, the Democratic Party submitted this amendment and I think it is a good place and opportunity to point to the essence of what the government wanted to achieve by this member. I'm probably the least invited to talk about grammar and spelling, so I'm not gonna touch that part. I think it's an unfortunately chosen word -- surveillance, surveillance. For what? Because the general principle of respect for constitutionality and legality, which obliges all citizens and all bodies, gives the state authorities the basis to keep an eye on, to make sure, to make sure, to have an obligation to respect constitutionality and legality. It is likely that the government draws not only the right, but also the obligation to observe, conclude, determine and initiate appropriate procedures if it considers that the principle of constitutionality and legality has been violated. Perhaps any other word that would be used would be better suited to the essence of this government's authority than the one that was taken, and it's called surveillance. Another problem with this article is that those who criticise this article have forgotten that something similar exists in the existing Law on Local Self-Government. I wouldn't say it's identical, it's something like that, and it comes down to the government's right to suspend the application of one general act by its individual act. This is not unknown in theory, there are such cases, but what is certainly controversial about our political and legal system, if such right and authority were to exist in favour of the government, then it would have to be raised to the level of constitutional norm. It's supposed to be the first constitutional norm. Our constitution has no constitutional norm. In some drafts, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has similar solutions, as suggested here. However, by interpreting the provisions of the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he does not give this right to the government or any other body, but the government has an obligation to keep an eye on constitutionality and legality. As every citizen has the obligation to respect the Constitution and the law, as every legal person has the obligation to respect the Constitution and the law, as every citizen has the obligation to notify of criminal acts if he has learned or heard of the perpetrator or of the act, so the Government and the state authorities have the obligation to, in the event of a brutal violation of the constitution and the law, that is to say, the disagreement of a general act with the Constitution and the law, initiate, that is, the procedure and the citizens even to submit the initiative. It is one right that springs from the provisions of our Constitution. I'm inclined to believe this is a problematic norm. I do not want to prejudge matters and say that the Constitutional Court would decide on a possible assessment of the constitutionality of this particular member, but I believe that if the Government is to receive this authority, that authority should draw from the constitutional norm, not from some legal norm, because only then can we be sure that the Government is empowered to suspend one general act by means of its individual act. We have in practice the case that the National Assembly has passed the Law on the Rights of persons indicted before The Hague tribunal and we have this Vučetić Constitutional Court, always deliberately potentiate Vučetić's Constitutional Court, which has adopted a temporary measure several days after the entry into force of that law and, in the form of putting out force or banning the adoption of individual acts under that law, has actually suspended the entire law, and here for a year has been suspended the law, and that the Constitutional Court has not finally decided on the constitutionality of that law. And he does not decide on the constitutionality of the law, but believes that he finished his job by means of an individual act, which de facto banned the application of a law. We're in the field of abuse. This really is a problem and the need for something like this certainly exists. For what? One general act is valid until the issue of its constitutionality and legality is resolved by the Constitutional Court. As long as this can take and what adverse consequences can occur, we can only assume, but for what you wrote in article 6, there must be a clear constitutional norm. Since she's not here, I suggest you accept this amendment and get Article 6 out of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15217	The word is Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think my predecessors have made it clear and loud about what the reason is that we demand that article 6 be deleted. In addition to the lack of constitutional authority that the government is now taking over and why we are wondering why there is then a Constitutional Court of Serbia, I also want to talk about why my predecessor Mrs. Comic did not want to talk, about the political intention. But if this is how this member is appointed, then we can also clearly talk about the intention of the promoter, why he wants to actually supervise, which are the reasons, so that, possibly in the case, we have also said in principle, where local self-governments have been established not at the will of the government in Serbia, to put political pressure on them. We can assume it's one of the reasons. If they want to put something like that on their own, the Serbian government, then it was logical to provide for sanctions in case individual decisions are assessed in agreement with the Constitution and the law. What happens if certain decisions of local self-government were actually in agreement with the Constitution, and the interpretation, the wish or the will of the minister or his associates and the individual decisions were challenged? Who will suffer the consequences for this, or for the non - application of those decisions? Therefore, I think that apart from what my predecessors have said, worse formulations, i.e. unacceptable formulations to monitor, it was more acceptable for the government to say – except that they are getting colleagues to resign - it would be best to move themselves – in Article 6 that they will take care of the application of the Constitution and the law. It is a far more acceptable formulation than it assumes powers that, by no member, especially under Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government must not and cannot give itself. Once again, I urge the minister to understand the good will of the amendment, the Democratic Party and Mrs Comic, and accept the proposed amendment. For a moment, in small parts, we would adapt this law to the Constitution and make it look like a law that should regulate such an important area in some part. Once again, I urge the minister to take the seriousness of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15219	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from a language scandal, we are now coming up with something called taking over anti-constitutional jurisdiction by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I must, Mr. Minister, honestly tell you that I have repeatedly mentioned the name of Mr. Balinovac, the man who was in office before October 5th, as the man taken over from the former regime and the structure that was in power. I spoke of him several times, and when the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation was the wife of Zoran Zivkovic, and in the context of unacceptable things that were incorporated into a certain law, I said: this is not even Balinovac would do. But he also went five steps further beyond his options, so he suggested that the government take on something that was never defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor would it be defined in this way as proposed in Article 6, which counterpart Gordana Comic asks to be deleted, because you will not be able to bring the Constitution without asking the Serbian Radical Party. You know that it takes a certain procedure to bring a new constitution, and as many sessions and public debates as possible, miserly meetings in a formal sense, without Serbian Radical Party MPs – and we are here most, as well as the electoral bodies, which are increasingly numerous in Serbia, and trusts the Serbian Radical Party – there is no change in the Constitution. We do not want or will ever allow the government to mess with something that is a constitutional obligation, primarily the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I have to remind you of that, and in that sense, unfortunately, the situation hasn't changed since you came to power, that we haven't had a Constitutional Court in a year and a half. He is a court with a clearly defined political structure of people, beginning with the President of the Court, through those who are its members and today the Serbian Radical Party, as the applicant for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain legal provisions, was not in a position to get any answer, and many of whom we have received, after two and a half years of waiting, have no basis rationally and logically, but are, at the very least, ridiculous. How did the proposer take on himself something that the constitutional category and gave the government that opportunity? Imagine, in his explanation, he told us that the provisions of Article 6, which certainly the National Assembly or MPs in the voting day should be deleted or accepted by the amendment submitted by MP Gordana Komic, are implemented in modern times, imagine, the concept of the principle of decentralisation, under which supervision by the central executive authority (Government) is subject only to the constitutionality and legality of general acts of autonomous provinces, units of local self-government and public authority holders. I've been listening to everything for nearly 14 years since I've been actively promoting the Serbian Radical Party programme and what we represent. Of course, this results because over 400,000 members of the Serbian Radical Party and millions of voters believe the idea and those principles. But such an explanation for decentralisation, along with all the nonsense that has been placed in both Kragujevac and other cities, where various shows have been organised both in and outside campaigns, this is one of the biggest nonsense I've ever heard when it comes to decentralisation. It's really funny, Mr. Balinovac, it might be hard for you to identify yourself, to separate yourself from cardio and from the rappers you pull from that period, to come up with the concept of modern decentralisation, and modern decentralisation and the possibility that a single unit of local self-government can develop uninterruptedly, and that should really be one of the general principles of all political factors in this country, that they want to understand, that the unit of local self-government can, through economic effects and through, above all, the achievement of greater income to develop. Decentralization in a way that defines Article 6, which deeply penetrates constitutional matter, not that it is not possible, but if it is from both this government and you personally, which you cannot replicate, because you are not such an authority, you are practically a guest invited to this assembly, it is indeed too much. It would be better for you, and the minister already does so with a group of his associates, although in many cases it goes slowly, to deal with the fact that, because of the concave Law on Local Self-Government, which was voted during Shabic's ministry, today many units of local self-government, through various hiducia, i.e. the transmutation of forces in the municipal assembly have problems, and above all the elected presidents of the municipalities cannot do their jobs because they are blocked by various "hyducs" in that and because they do not know. No one has anything to do with it, even me with strong democratic beliefs and the party I represent, that someone builds a new coalition and comes up with a new relationship between forces. But that everyone interprets the law in the way it suits him and behaves arrogantly is unacceptable, and especially where people wanted to directly elect executives, presidents of municipalities. From Arangelovec to other cities and municipalities in Vojvodina you have these objections. You're doing better than that, and don't get caught up in what are strict constitutional categories and powers the government has, and above all, the Constitutional Court, which cannot possibly be the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15221	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15222	When Minister Loncar came out earlier to say that on behalf of the government he accepted the amendment to Article 5, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, he did nothing to challenge MPs that he was receiving a salary at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. No wonder there's more pay than there is in the government. We don't mind, use your right, but don't, Minister Loncar, for the other day and your picture goes out in the paper as Deputy Prime Minister, to say students at the Law School - neatly coming to receive a salary, but neither surrender nor question. I assume you're more serious in that part. One more thing, Minister, the president of the Serbian Radical Party in The Hague went alone, bought it himself, went there alone. If it's because of him you're going to The Hague to bring him, as you say, because we miss him here, it's true we miss him very much, we miss Serbia, but don't let him go. You have neither taken him, nor asked you to bring him, nor Vojislav Seselj, nor is he asking for an SRS. It's not really our fault that the citizens of Serbia call you stewardess. Every night we hear on TV that you're on one of the flights to The Hague. However, I think that Minister Loncar is not a hopeless case, because just now, after five good reasons, he accepted the SRS amendment, so we are now trying to convince both the minister and the assembly majority that this amendment is indeed meaningful to Article 6. I must remind you that we and the party of the applicant of this amendment have warned many times, at a time when they passed laws, to pass unconstitutional laws, to pass inapplicable laws. Every time we said that, it was like that. Now this amendment is probably due to the fact that the party's representatives have now realised that once the authorities were wrong, they are now trying to convince the assembly majority to pass constitutional laws. We all know problems with the Constitutional Court, we know the fact that for a year and a half Serbia did not have a Constitutional Court. In the meantime, she was given a party Constitutional Court. That constitutional court has been making, we all know, nebulous decisions. Of course, I'm a lawyer and I accept every decision of the Constitutional Court. Also, as a lawyer, I have the right to say that many decisions have been nebulous and today this parliament has problems because of certain decisions of the Constitutional Court. If now, in addition to the negative and poor experience in the work of the Constitutional Court, we allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course unconstitutional, to play the constitutional court, then I really don't know how far we're going to go and where we're going to go. The explanation of the government to achieve some kind of decentralisation is really funny, so you have no idea what decentralisation really is and how decentralisation is conducted. decentralisation doesn't mean you government people don't let local self-government breathe. That's exactly how it is right now. I have an impression, and I was saying that yesterday in the principle debate, that many of the negative things that happen in this government and that are mostly inherited by that previous government are now legalized through this government law. All that has been done so far without a legal basis, you are now trying to install into this law. You have the right to imagine in this way the functioning of local self-government and thus imagine the functioning of the government. You had to do something else before. You had to make sure it was written in the Constitution. If this had a constitutional basis, I'd say, I don't like it, it's not okay, it's gonna choke local self-government, but constitutional provision, so my God. This is, therefore, the opposite of the Constitution, and I really expect that the Government, on behalf of the Government, will accept this amendment, or will do so by the parliamentary majority in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15223	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15224	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not entering political motives, nor legislators, nor applicants of this amendment, would I only refer to whether there is a constitutional and legal basis for the survival of this Article 6 in the proposed government law at all. The Constitution, Articles 125 and 130, regulates the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and sets out exactly what is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, including the verification of these general acts, which are brought by autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, public undertakings and persons to whom public powers have been delegated. In addition, the constitutional provision laid down the Law on the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions, so this member of the law is in direct contrast with at least four members of the law. Article 59. The law on proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions provides for the possibility, in fact, of the judicial authority being given the possibility that, in the course of the conduct of the proceedings, if it considers that a provision of law or general law is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, it may terminate the proceedings and initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The judicial authority shall not have the possibility to suspend the enforcement of a general act or law, or to suspend the suspension. It can simply terminate court proceedings until the Constitutional Court decides whether any law or general act is in accordance with the Constitution or with the law. Also, regulations and general acts adopted by the Republic authorities, i.e. the authorities of the administration and the Government, are subject to the assessment of constitutionality. It is illogical for someone who is subject to the constitutional assessment to carry out an assessment of constitutionality and legality. It's simple, I don't know how it can survive in the legal order. Secondly, the decisions of the Constitutional Court come into effect on the day of the publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This is the solution, with the government suspending the execution of general acts and individual acts based on these general acts, has the fact that the government has an obligation to launch proceedings in the next 15 days before the Constitutional Court. Of course she'll start the procedure as soon as she's brought that solution, why don't you start the procedure, why don't you take that second step. What happens next? It is the fact that the suspended general acts and individual acts resulting from that general act are still out of force, although they are pending proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court does not have that possibility, when assessing the constitutionality or legality of other acts, it does not have the possibility to suspend the enforcement of the law or general act. There is an exceptional situation in Article 42. Laws but apply to individual acts and individual actions. The Constitutional Court is the only one who has the power to suspend the individual act or the individual action, but cannot act in general, cannot suspend the law from applying, not in fact from executing, but from applying, until it makes a decision. The government is given this opportunity. It is simply amazing that the executive power usurps the part of the authority that comes from the Constitution and which belongs exclusively to the Constitutional Court. I think it would be a precedent and I think you'd be given too much authority to the government. I repeat, I'm not going into any political motives or proposings at all, whether there's some background behind it or not. Also, I'm not even entering the political motives of amendment applicants and what they saw behind it, but in principle I'm saying there's no constitutional basis. Second, at least four members of the Constitutional Court and the fact of its decisions have been directly injured by this Article. Since you have already accepted the previous amendment of our MP, Ms. Radeta, I think this amendment should be accepted as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15225	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 6 should be adopted. It is undeniable that such powers, as he is trying to seize himself here, the government should not have and it is clear that in this way the Government is going to step into the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, even if it is the court of Slobodan Vučetic, as we have today. But there is no need to forget the fact that right now the proposings of this amendment are the most responsible for being the Constitutional Court as it is today. For a long time, Serbia was without the Constitutional Court. The SRS has persistently insisted that the Constitutional Court be formed, however, the Constitutional Court is as it is today, and as we have today, certainly cannot meet those obligations it has in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But the argument given by the Government for not accepting this amendment is also interesting. It says, by the provision of Article 6. The bill implements a modern concept of the principle of decentralisation. So it's about the modern concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia. If anything else, of course, isn't fixed, I guess. Now, it would be really good if Mr. Loncar told us whether, since he already says he works at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, this speech is used there, is this a speech used at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Is this a speech used at any university in Serbia and whether it is a speech that anyone in Serbia is using. I think this new talk, like you're trying to introduce, not just through various other ways, but here now and directly into the laws, is something that comes from someone else, to us neighbouring states. I don't think Francis Tudjman would be ashamed of this and this law, and it would be interesting if you could answer us if you were responsible for this law, if you wrote it. Did Mr. Balinovac write it? So far he's had some excursions in that direction, but I think this is even too much for him. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it is incomprehensible for the Government to be given the opportunity to simply assume the jurisdiction of the judicial authority, to suspend the execution of the general act. And here's why. Experience teaches us that the Constitutional Court will do as the Government requires. For example, the SRS's initiative to assess the constitutionality of introducing the state of emergency, which was introduced after the prime minister's murder, has not been answered by the Constitutional Court by today. It has been more than three years, and there are a number of other SRS initiatives that have never been answered. We are also witnesses and the fact that in certain cases the Constitutional Court reacts extremely quickly, so we have had a lot of situations that the President of the Constitutional Court, even before the Constitutional Court makes a certain decision or a temporary measure, comes out and publicly, via electronic media, declares some of its views as the position of the Constitutional Court. I think that regardless of what the Constitutional Court is today as it is, we Serbian radicals have never evaluated institutions according to those people who are present today, unfortunately at their head, but we think that institutions should be respected, that people should be changed unless they are correct. We don't think he can, despite the fact that this constitutional court is very bad, that the government is taking over the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. This is also important because when the government's decision is published in the Official Messenger, and it is in some way published to the public, when 15 days pass, so the government eventually does not initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality, the question is whether that fact will also be published in the Official Messenger. Of course not. In this way, the public will be informed that a certain general act of the province has been suspended for the future, that it will not be applied, and you must admit that it would be most normal to announce that a certain general act will be suspended from execution, that in the same way, in the "Official Messenger", it will also be published that this general act will be further applied. Since this kind of, in some ways, equality isn't secured, I think it's best for all of us to have this member of the law erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15227	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was a little strange for Minister Loncar to propose such a ill-written law. I assumed it was from his office, or he wrote it. I can only now see that Mr. Balinovac wrote this law and I apologize to the minister for doubting one moment that he could write something like this. As for Mr. Balinovac, I heard in the hallway for a moment, they say, Mr. Balinovac is changing, as the government comes, he changes. He doesn't change. Governments change. He is, as our people say, a vegetarian for every stew. I remember he was at the Ministry until 2000. Here comes the man again for all time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another attempt to get government, to get one branch of government to get the information that belongs to the other two branches. Article 6 says - The government oversees the constitutionality and legality of general acts of the AP, municipalities, cities, cities of Belgrade, public enterprises, institutions and public authorities. If the government controls constitutionality and legality, what will the Constitutional Court do to us? It's true we have a Constitutional Court, but it's also like we don't have one. But only in certain situations. Because, when it was supposed to be, say, the law on helping the families of the Hague indictees to make it, that constitutional court met in 24 hours and made a decision. I gave my opinion on that law. When a caucus decision was to be made regarding ownership of the mandate of the MPs and committees, the Constitutional Court also called, and now not only this assembly, but many local self-government congregations also have problems, by declaring it to be the MP, or the committee owner of the mandate. If someone was on the party list, then the party is the owner of the mandate, and he is the only one who uses the mandate at a certain time. Of course, it was necessary for certain furniture to find the opportunity to collect enough, excuse me, to buy a sufficient number of MPs or councilors in certain congregations, in order to be able to vote certain decisions, that is, to rule indefinitely. We have a lot of problems in laws and decisions regarding local self-government. Mr. Minister, you know that Belgrade is your biggest problem. Of all the problems, Belgrade is the biggest problem. The congregations of municipalities are reduced to the level of local communities. Especially in Zemun, when exempt from the budget approved by Belgrade, i.e. The city's assembly, when what it means is -- employees' salaries, current business costs -- say, it remains for the total investment of five million, and 500 million euros, not dinars, euros, is the budget that the city of Belgrade has. In this way, the volunteerism of certain structures in this City Assembly appears maximum. So in some municipality, where those who are nice and dear to them are in power, they're going to pave everything, they're going to do sewers, plumbing, etc., complete infrastructure. In municipalities that weren't lucky to fool citizens, so to vote for them, there's no investment. Holes to break the wheel of a car on the street. That's why I think it's a problem you should think about, but you still can't take the right to oversee the constitutionality and legality of something, some decisions. You can monitor the implementation of these decisions, but constitutionality and legality of the Constitutional Court. Just because the Constitutional Court is wrong doesn't mean that it shouldn't be changed, and if God does, then after the next election, we'll change it safely, because then the best party on this political scene, which is the SRS, will lead Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15229	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the case of Article 6. The proposal for a government law can be seen in the nature of the law, which the government submitted to the National Assembly. Namely, the SRS also believes that this Article 6 should be deleted. The 6th said, "The government oversees the constitutionality and legality of general acts of autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, the city of Belgrade and public enterprises, institutions and public authorities. "So this article shows that the government is taking the right to disobey the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution accurately and precisely determines the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. In the case of this Article 6, it is apparent that this law is not well-conceived, not well written. The government had to submit a precise and clear legislative proposal to the National Assembly, as this law puts the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is seen in Article 6 that, firstly and now in this case directly enters the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So the law is not a comprehensive legislative proposal. I believe that, if the minister has accepted the SRS amendment to Article 5. The proposal for a government law should also be adopted by this amendment to Article 6, not entering into who submitted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15231	I'd like to ask you to at least put your cards in your units, because this doesn't make me feel like you're in the O.R. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15232	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel that this amendment should be adopted, no matter who suggested it, for the reason that my colleagues in the SRS have explained it well. I'll just say that one of the basic principles of our constitutional and legal system is constitutionality and legality. that all acts, lower acts, acts of the Republic, the provinces, working organisations, that is, companies must now comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot have the authority to suspend acts that are anti-constitutional, because it is an anti-constitutional category. Why? Even the Constitutional Court can't do that. The Constitutional Court assesses the constitutionality and legality of a certain act and can only suspend its application in advance. Now I'm going to point to something as a lawyer, that would lead to the paralysis of the legal system. What will happen to labour disputes that can arise, various disputes related to general acts brought by lower bodies, the authorities of the Autonomous province if the government suspends them. Theoretically, there could be total paralysis of the legal system and the courts would stop working. So, in addition to being against the law and against the law, really listen to these voices that are sincere, which are well-intentioned, so that we don't create such a mess in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15233	The word is from Ambassador Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15234	Dear MPs, it is quite said and clear reasons have been presented that the government has no authority under the Constitution to appreciate the constitutionality and legality of acts of local self-government, nor the act of an autonomous province. But the reason I came forward was an explanation why the amendment is not accepted. It is said here in the first part of the argument that the provision of Article 6. The bill effectively implements the modern concept of the principle of decentralisation. I especially stress the second part of the argument that says, "On the other hand, by the provision of Article 6. The bill maintains links between central authorities and various forms of decentralisation prevents the disintegration of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and creating inequalities between citizens and other legal entities before the law. "Looking at some real situation in the state of Serbia, has there been a collapse of the legal order? If we see what is happening in all areas of work and life in Serbia, the government can make such an argument that justice in the area of economy, in the areas of health, education, judiciary, functioning of the basic levers of the state, the MUP, the prosecution, the courts. And to see what's going on, the obvious example is the District Court Special Branch. It's not months, it's years. What is it for, and how is it all happening? Citizens pay for that court, that special department, but no convictions, no final epilogue. What happens through the Ministry of Privatisation, through the Privatisation Agency? What's going on with this little litigation in front of trade courts for terminating privatisation contracts, where it's obvious to every honest man that it's an obvious robbery and kidnapping. These proceedings, although lawsuits have been filed in trade courts, have not been scheduled for months. Although the President of the Higher Trade Court has repeatedly come to the Privatisation Committee and made it clear that these disputes will have priority. Unfortunately, they do not have a priority, but rather they are stalling to end the robbery until the end, so that the privatisation contracts, or so on, may end. The majority of the owners would not have met any of the terms of the contract, so that most workers would have been driven out of the company and that after the end of the contract they would have come to huge immovable property and about the robbery of property, if it was mobile or the goods found in the company, not to mention. The government's position on this is that everything that happens around Karic - Moscow is now being transferred to Austria, Vienna. The government of the Republic of Serbia's unhinged attitude. And the previous one and this government don't know what the ownership part of the state is. State officials don't know how many states own the company. Now there is some sales, delegations are received, and who are these customers, maybe Karic is behind those customers. Mishkovic with Delta Bank, too. You don't have the power as ministers, you're probably involved in many things, I'm not going to name myself, and enough is saying everything that happens with Labus, with Dinkic, with Master Velja Ilic, who before putting together this government of the democratic bloc is fighting a fierce fight with Dinkic, who is a bigger criminal than the two of them, and now they're together, now they're going together to open some buildings and cut the tape. Don't worry about the legality and constitutionality of acts of local self-government. You need to account for all illegalities in the state of Serbia, and you are the most responsible as representatives and members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15235	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15236	Ladies and gentlemen, when you read Article 6 more carefully. The bill gives the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia simply overcomes itself by any new legislative proposal, by the way it mocks and leads the country. The question arises when this Article 6 is read why simply, Mr. Minister, you did not propose a new law on local self-government, to abolish the municipalities' congregations, to abolish the presidents of the municipalities, because the SRS stood up for it, and we have nothing against it. But we are against the fact that through one government law, which does not directly touch that matter, you are building a state administration from the authorities of local self-government. Then why do we need self-government, what do we need a congregation for, what do we need a municipal council for? Maybe it's your desire to control certain local self-governments because of some political situation or day-to-day political events, but when I look at who needs to enforce this law, and that it's the government that can temporarily undo one general act, and I know who's sitting in that government, then I don't trust you at all when I read one of these members. So, the member is saying that within 15 days you have an obligation to launch a constitutional court request for an assessment of constitutionality or the legality of a general act brought by some unit of local self-government. If not, your decision by the government ceases to apply. If you start, I would now ask the question of what time will the Constitutional Court assess it, it could take a year, two, three or four, maybe one day and lose the sense of that decision that might have been in favor of the citizens of that unit of local self-government, the meaning of its existence. This shouldn't be solved in this way. You represent here a congregation majority who formed this government. That assembly majority can ask the Constitutional Court to work faster, but then you have another problem, in order for that court to work faster, you have to change the president of the court, and the president of the court is from G17, your coalition partner. That's why, with full right, all the MPs of the SRS call the Constitutional Court a political court, and you, Mr. Minister, had to think about it, and you and your chairman of the party, in December 2003, in January 2004, to know who you're getting together with. Now you just have to make this kind of nonsense to propose to the National Assembly, with even dumber arguments that the government gives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15237	Mr. Arsic, you didn't put the card in, you're really misusing that right. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8, has the title - Powers to the authorities of the state administration, and all three positions. Therefore, the provisions of the whole article are prescribed by the Constitution, Article 90, point 5, 6 and 7. First, it is unclear why only those provisions of all the provisions of Article 90 are still in place, which relate to the same thing. Again, the question of quoting constitutional principles in the law is raised. This is not the only member and we as a party have argued against constitutional provisions being cited in the law, whatever constitutional provision, whatever the law refers to, for at least two reasons. The first is that by quoting the constitutional provision in the law and my great regret for your decision to adopt such a member in the proposed text in the law – I still want to believe that there is more common sense than stubbornness and that there is more awareness than political passion, so you will consider once again amendments and the law in general – you will lead to the Constitutional Court, if any of us submits an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 8 of the Law on Government, if adopted in such a text, de facto assessing the constitutionality of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court is not in charge of that. So, if I address him with a request to assess the constitutionality of this provision, the Constitutional Court must answer me that he will not work or put this outside the law and invent any gymnastics to overcome the unnecessary state of prescribing constitutional provisions. Constitutional provisions as principle provisions serve to develop these principles in laws, to specify, to write down how you will ensure the application of constitutional provisions, the safeguard mechanisms that you will provide for laws, never and ever serve to be fully copied into the text of any law. To make it perfectly clear why this number of amendments to the government law we're fighting for the correction of this law, as far as there's no kind of party colour and programme, there's only politics as a trade. And knowing who will first read the law on the state administration, the government law, if it were colored cheerleaders and parties, so, as it is otherwise considered a cheerleading party in Serbia, I would prefer that the law on state administration in the proposed text, the government law, be adopted as proposed, because it is read by the people you depend on, who will make a terrible mockery behind your back. But that's not the point. Not when it comes to government law, not when it comes to government law, no matter how unusual it sounds to you. So when I'm asked on an international stage, because I chair the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I'm talking about my government and my ministers, and they represent the Republic of Serbia. This applies to this, and it is simply a complete absence of any common sense to try to defend in any way copying the provisions of the Constitution into any law. You can't compare, you can't do anything but stubbornness and be a little cynical -- we'll show the yellow ones. It's no use, none of it's any use. Believe it to be party cheerleading, just adopt it like it says, people in ministries, people in organs, special organizations, people in local self-government, they'll think badly of you. The silences would have crossed the law. But that's not the point. It's about an important law and it's about an important approach to the law. We are fully convinced that no constitutional provision can be copied into the text of the law, especially in this way, that only three points are prescribed from one member covering almost all competences, or government powers. I repeat, it is a defiance toward this congregation and toward those who need to read and apply the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15239	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15240	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9 of the same text is in the state administration law, it has the title - Public Works, and it reads: "The government's work is public. The government is obliged to give public insight into its work, according to a law governing free access to information of public importance and the government's rules of procedure." We suggest that Article 9 paragraph 2 be deleted because the proposed solution proves that it does not understand the public of work. The cited law applies first and foremost to the information required by the Government. The law on the availability of information, which we adopted in this assembly, prescribes mechanisms, procedures, authorised seekers and mandatory information providers on the deadline, on the species, on everything the information implies. It's a law on the availability of information, to make the law binding on all those in the public business in which they are obliged to provide information. Whether information is required by the Government or by the authorities and organisations, the public of the work of the Government implies a voluntary and desirable willingness of the Government to inform about its work, about all segments of its work, and to provide information to the general public, without anyone's special request. It's a public service. So, the public of work is when you express your position voluntarily, when you say -- we want a government that's open, which is a service of citizens, we voluntarily provide everyone with all kinds of information about all the jobs that the government is dealing with. You can write that in law, handling information of a particular kind. It can be in this law, and it doesn't have to be. We could argue about that, but this shows that the public doesn't understand the work, that in one law you commit to respecting another law. What kind of government are you making? Which will say in Section 2 that we want an organisation of a government that commits to respecting the law that has been passed in this assembly on a proposal from the Government. It's as if you're writing that in the government everyone will respect the provisions of the Criminal Code, that in the government everyone will respect the provisions of Family Law. It can't be in government law. If you do not respect the provisions of the law on the availability of information, then you will be caught and you will be punished or you will not be caught. It's a completely different question, but you can't in a body of something terribly important, according to European standards of enormous importance, about what the public works of the state authority, state the wrong provision. It's a bad message to those we agree on that we want to prove that we are able to change our society voluntarily, our legislation, so that it is positively better. This is like a provision in the competition law, where you suggested that competition be taken into account by the minister. I guess he knows what competition is and who's supposed to be in the competition. Any attempt to harm what needs to be a standardisation process by an illiterate, illiterate or unnecessary provision will come upon our resistance and, by our assessment, a reasoned debate. This member of the public of work could contain views on the instruments of the public, the way the open government works, which could be a commitment that the National Assembly will specifically require from the government. So he can do anything. You can write what instruments are, the National Assembly can ask you or can be defined by the government's internal organization, but it can't say in government law that we're bound to respect the law on the availability of information. He can't. As much as you like it to be written without error, it can't. It's much smarter then to give up, no matter what the throw, it can. So that's what this is about. The person who works at the Ministry of Ministers throws people's MPs during the speech - es, he can. Now, that's Serbian politics. The second MP throws - how we are on your politics. What's up, MP? (Vukovosav Tomašević, from the place: It is not a bodrum policy. What policy is that, MP? Is that Serbian politics? So, Serbian policy is that the secretary of the legislature doesn't know the order. In Vojvodina, they say -- here's the derran doesn't know the order, but if he does, he'll learn. The difference that exists between us from Novi Sad and these others is how the minister reacts to what he knows is an argumentary criticism. I ask you, however, as the National Assembly MP, to inform your associates about how they must behave while sitting in the benches of the National Assembly. There are other localisms from Kragujevac, I know all that, but there's no town to Nova Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15241	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title of Part II and Article 10. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15242	In Part 2, ladies and gentlemen, the composition, mandate and arrangement of the government. Above the 10th title "Government composition and position of members of the government", and again "Government composition". Article 10 reads: "The government is comprised of the Prime Minister, one or more Deputy Prime Ministers and resolution ministers. The government can have ministers without portfolios. The number of government vice-presidents and ministers without portfolio determines the National Assembly in each government election, on the proposal of a candidate for Prime Minister." The DS amendment, which we have invested on title and Article 10, is that Part II "The Constitution, the mandate and the arrangement of the Government" is changed and reads "The composition, mandate and internal organisation of the Government". This is really an adjudication. It's a question of language, which you're prone to or not, because if it's a government order, then there can be comical comments on what it all means to edit the government. The government's arrangement, here's MP Nikolic, immediately assigned his picture of the government's arrangement, so he says he's cleaning up, getting ready, and everything else. So there may be comical comments. It's not about that. It's about the inside organization. That's the reason for the amendment, if it's known to be an internal organization, and it doesn't say. It's such a simple amendment. What we have proposed as an amendment to the text itself and the provisions of Article 10 is this: "The government is made by the President, one or more than three vice-presidents and ministers". Item 2: "The number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers is determined by the National Assembly in each government election, on the proposal of a candidate for Prime Minister." Item 3: "The government in its composition has a 30% less represented sex." In addition to the language corrections I mentioned, a provision on the Minister is left out without portfolios for several reasons. So the government doesn't have a minister with a portfolio to talk about ministers without portfolios. That, we know, was more of a matter of practice, let's be honest with each other, for someone being given a place to do something, with some people, than it really made any sense, or what it looked like to power, as a public service, as something that serves citizens all together. But, all right, other countries have had that experience. Basically, it's about a minister without a ministry, to be absolutely clear. So those who will laugh at you because of these provisions know, but I'm saying this also because of those who are watching us. So he's not an authority officer. He has nothing to be an authority elder. In such a position are the vice-presidents of the government. Then there's no need to introduce another ministerial status, since it's neither a man with a ministry nor a man without a ministry. It's a ministerial situation. I know people's names that were ministers without portfolios, and they basically did jobs depending on who, in relation to the personal character, the personal characteristics of the one that the governments had previously proposed before 2000, and that's where I include governments before 2000, for the ministry without portfolios. There is no need to introduce another ministerial situation, because the status of such a proposed minister can be resolved by the Ministry Act, because it is not introduced here anywhere that you will stop proposing if this law, the Ministry Act, is passed, which means the same thing that we have now - while we have the current 1991 Government Act, with amendments in 1993. Every time we had laws on ministries, with clearly defined powers of each of the ministries proposed by each candidate for Prime Minister. There is no obstacle to being proposed by the majority of the ministry for a special part in the government's programme, as co-ordinator, and on a proposal from the Prime Minister. There is one place that would have our support, which is European integration. So this government got rid of it, and it's politics, that it has an office to join, that there's no ministry. Comparative experience shows - someone has ministries. That accession office will have to be strengthened. So, as you do all the jobs during the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations, you're going to have to have a stronger institution, come to the Assembly and say, we want one co-ordinator, not the head of the negotiating team, but we want that person for a variety of reasons, and there's no reason why this assembly won't accept it. Jobs of European integration are, I repeat, an ideal example, if the strategy is not to have a ministry. If the strategy is to have a ministry, a minister without a portfolio, then you will come and ask for amendments to the law on ministers. The provision of 30% less-represented sex is a provision that is in line with European standards. We have it in electoral laws and there is no reason why this government should not commit itself, by such a provision in the law, by accepting this European standard, and knowing that in Serbia there is certainly 18 members, 6 capable women to run some ministries responsibly and efficiently. I am sure that the Serbian Radical Party will vote in favour of this amendment, if for nothing else, because of 30% of women in executive bodies. Thank you. (The Belief of Radeta: We choose by expertise. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15243	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, except for the arguments that Mrs Comic gave, in favour of the the thesis or assertion of the Democratic Party that this law was written in a rather incomprehensible language, since a member of the 10th stated that the government was made by the president, one or more vice-presidents and resolution ministers. The next stance says, "The government can also have ministers without portfolios." I really don't know if anyone liked this word "portfeu" more than "resor." I'd rather get an explanation from the ministry which is the difference between the portfolio and the portfolio. Does it make a difference? I understand that there is a difference between Dinkic and Kostunica, although some colleagues earn that there is no difference. But, as far as portfolios and portfolios are concerned, I think that, in this case, the promoter has to take care of what he's proposing. Do we have a government that has cabinets, or resolution ministers and ministers without resources? That is what Mrs. Komic spoke very clearly and precisely. Our amendment does not deny either the right of any government, nor this, or any of the following, to have ministers who may be in charge of certain issues and who will not have direct resolutions. We therefore consider it very important and important to define more precisely the composition, mandate and, above all, the internal organisation of the Government. This is not defined in the proposed Article 10. I say it one more time, and I think that's what we said in the principle debate, I'd like someone from the government to explain to me the difference between portfolios and portfolios. That's a very significant difference. I understand, I say once again, either there is or there is no difference between Kostunica and Dinkic, but between the portfolio and the portfolio, I would like the resolution minister, who defends these laws today, or his associates, to give an expert opinion on what the difference is. As far as we're concerned, I don't think there's any absolute difference here, and there's any modernity or desire to put a word that we liked into the bill is something that can be of a personal nature, but that can't exist as a word in a law that, to a large extent, or says almost nothing about itself. That is why I call once again on the Proposer, except that he is wisely silent all day, to come out, perhaps within two or three hours, to accept the proposal of our amendment, because he is far better and more precisely defining the proposed member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15245	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15246	Although the portfolio in finance means detention, that someone is holding something in their hands, when they say they have a portfolio of securities of value, that means they have authority over securities of value, but in the organization of a state without portfolio means there is no clear authority prescribed by law, but it is in the rank of a minister. However, there is no point in either this member or these amendments in whether there should be or whether there should be no such minister in this organisation. That is why I would take the opportunity to give criticism to the first position of the government's 10th proposal and the final position in the amendment on the agenda. Here's the thing. Someone may like it or not like the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is still in force and still binding. The constitution has Article 91, which says the government is comprised of presidents, vice-presidents and ministers. You notice the word of the vice president, and she's in the crowd, ministers, it's in the plural. In some countries and in some constitutional and legal systems, the constitution sets out exactly how many ministries there are and under what name, even exists as a constitutional category of minister without portfolios in some countries. This provision obliges us that, if we are working this out, and we have to work on this article, because I think that's the third position of this member, then it can't stand in Article 10 -- the government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice presidents. There's no alternative in the crowd. You have one, two, plural, and because of those people who do these things a little bit, the conspiracy is when they're two perpetrators, and the already organized group is three and more. If you tell the vice president, then the minimum must be two. We now have one vice president, which is totally unconstitutional. That decision you made here during the government's election is unconstitutional in this part, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the situation of one vice president, but vice presidents, minimum two and more. An amendment on the agenda helps define and says three at most. What's the problem with this amendment is that, let's say, even representation, or, as you like to say, gender equality cannot be applied in this area. It has been defined by some recommendations from the EU and the Council of Europe. Recommendations are not so binding, you have accurate statistics that the countries do not accept that recommendation on this equality. I must warn you of one thing. It can't be 30 percent like a standard in all elections. You managed to get it through the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but here is the executive power. This is not where the representatives of the citizens who will pass the laws are chosen. This is about the government's choice and the composition of a government to enforce the law. In that pre-war Yugoslavia, there was a clear provision that limited it, so it is said, every fourth MP must have a college or a school equal to the university, so that he can mate to ministers who are, by definition, more educated. If you apply what you're teaching us wrong is a standard, it's not a standard in executive power. If that were to happen with us, then only because it belongs to someone half-one would be an expert in the government. Secondly, we've been hearing about this depoliticization for two days now, and so on, I think you've made a mistake. If you're so much for depolitisation, don't participate in the election. We grab on to get into power, we figure out what everyone here wants to do to be a member of the government, the Prime Minister, to implement their programme. That's why we're taking part in the election. Of course, the minister, the deputy, the assistants will also be politicized personalities. Why would a specific minister, any minister, be responsible for allegedly some expert in the rank of an assistant minister who speaks, yes, Mr. Minister, as the door closes, and when the door closes, it hits one of its combinations and makes an obstruction. Talk a little more openly about political obstruction in the ministries. You're all avoiding the subject, and 60 percent of the ministry's jobs can't be done just because of these things. So, here, according to the SRS proposal, a little, if I may say so, should affect the government or someone else who has the right to submit one amendment to remove these irregularities, and the proposed member and this last position of the amendment, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15247	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Shormaz, he asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15248	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if the minister is ready to explain the difference between Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic to the people's DS MP from Kragujevac. I am willing to explain to him the difference between Kostunica and Tadic with pleasure, but only when he explains to me how DS or how he, who talked about it at the press conference as a spokesman, delivered Nedi Arneric to Turkey a great deal of money for a taxi from Bodrum to Istanbul and how the cards in Istanbul welcomed her, since he obviously knows cards and cards, but hardly knows the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15249	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's nothing to cook, unfortunately. I think members of the 10th and of the amendment submitted could make up a good member of this bill. The proponent would have to give up these portfolios and no portfolios, and the legislator and the amendment would have to give up one vice president, but the amendmentr would have to give up his 3rd amendment to Article 10, which speaks of the need to force the government to introduce 30 percent of the representatives of the less-represented sex. If we follow European trends here, then in a year we will have to introduce another provision for another sex. Currently, in Serbia, we know two halves in most. However, Europe has long broken up with number two when it comes to genders and has already moved to mixed sexes, it has moved on to mixed marriages, so that when you have a marriage between two, per se, women in Europe, it is assumed to be one man. Because all recognized religions, which are likely to belong to European nations, require that marriage be concluded before God among those who can have children by nature. Of course, there's a disease or a deficiency, and that's something else. When you include two women in marriage, you know they can't have children. On the other hand, it appears in the vast majority, and this began from European diplomacy, and it seems to have spread to our diplomacy, has first spread through the English government, and is likely to expand further, that a man doesn't have to be just a man and take over a function that has always, through the beginnings, had women. So then you're going to have to extend the bill, because rightly he's going to come forward and say, well, now our inter-half is at risk because there's no law for us to rule this country, so we're not asking for 30%, we see that we're not there yet, but he's going to ask for 5%, or he's going to look for a natural threshold. That is why, of course, I have heard the conclusion that we will probably vote for this amendment, precisely because of that, but this is not an amendment to the electoral law. Here I fully support you, although I am inclined to recommend women in Serbia to deal with politics, not to force them to deal with politics. To deal with politics as a commitment, so that everyone on the lists has a sufficient number of women, that you don't have to legally determine how many women they'll send to the Assembly. But here, I've agreed to do it with the law, and it's a better situation in this House. Some say the Democrats are in power now, like. It is not true, but there are more women, so these men too hesitate to behave as they once did in the congregation. So I can't accept 30% of ministers being women. I can't limit the Prime Minister, no matter what political parties he's from. I can't. Let him decide whether or not he will. Not even the National Assembly can tie his hands that way, for we have not tied his hands according to his expertise. We didn't say how many academics there must be, how many college graduates, how many of them there must be, how many of them there must be. Well, then how can we half-determin and tie his hands to a team like that before you can hardly meet that requirement in such colorful coalitions? And this bill that speaks of ministers without portfolio is a bill that knows that if this proposal stays in power in the next term, it will have to have small coalition partners and it has allocated them to the ministries without portfolios. That's obvious. Because that minister without a portfolio in the government law is still nowhere to be worked out. It's just mentioned as a minister without a portfolio. Ministers with portfolios have several members of a worked-out obligation, rights, duties. The minister without a portfolio is no longer mentioned. So he will be elected here and he has completed his mission, introduced his little political party, first into a coalition on the election list, so here you are 15 years after the first council, again I advise - don't lead small political parties to the elections as members of your election lists. May it remain a Serbian political scene for those who can fulfill the censorship. Because you see how those who are in small political parties behave. The smaller the party, the more blackmail and the higher the political function or ministerial function in the government, and then you grab the head as Natasa Micic runs the National Assembly sessions, so you grab on to the head as Goran Svilanovic runs foreign affairs, so how does Vuk Draskovic, so what happens to small political parties. They're people with no responsibility. So I suggest, if it could be accepted that someone delivers us an amendment in which all these disagreements will be smoothed out, that's what we could do for that amendment and we could vote. Now, neither is the law acceptable to us, but neither is this amendment, written like this, acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15251	I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours. Mrs. Comic, you have the word first after your break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, he attends this session of 139 MPs. Please specify the quorum to insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. During the afternoon session, a replica of MP Gordana Comic came in line. Mrs. Comic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15253	Ladies and gentlemen, the only mechanism I can give to clarify the third attitude of the amendment, which says the government in its composition has a 30% less represented gender, is to call on the business provision of wrong interpretation. I don't think that's what this is about, but I think we need to clarify, given what was heard here at the pay phone. So when it comes to 30% of the less-represented sex, the attitude clearly states, in the government's terms. Knowing how much resistance hidden, indirect or direct can be for such public support and motivation for professional women to be in the executive power, I would like to clarify that I am not doing this as a proposal because it reads in EU acts. I am not doing this because it says on the European Commission's website and 30% are women in the European Commission's membership and I am not doing this because there are eight or 12 countries out of the 25 EU member states. That's what I'm suggesting for us, that's good for us. Believe me, if the government is going to interpret that the government's composition is the level of future state secretaries or assistants, whatever, but doesn't it make any sense to you that in Serbia 12% of the population is more highly educated women than men, and that 23% are more unemployed than men. There's got to be some kind of unwritten reason, some kind of unwritten rule that makes highly educated women, with great work experience, unable to get into a position to participate in making decisions that apply to all our lives. The government is the place where you make decisions that concern all of us and the best decision of this government or the future being to say -- yes, we have prejudice issues, we have problems with unwritten rules, never at the expense of quality. Always if two are the same expertise, same work experience, then the government says - 30% of the government's position, we want to say that the woman has an advantage. The government can benefit only, the country can benefit only. An example is mentioned here that in the time between the two wars in this same Serbia, a regulation has been passed that each quarter must be highly educated. Why? Why didn't high schooled by the nature of things want to be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? There must have been some reason, so there was someone smart in the state, so he said, "We want high schooled in the National Assembly." I expect the same level of common sense from all of us, because we need professional women, enormous competences, to work in the government of the Republic of Serbia and to participate in decision-making. That society can only benefit, no harm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15254	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Let me remind you, since the debate on the amendment began during the afternoon, it is a proposal to change the name of the second and Article 10, the amendment to that part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS is not to accept this amendment, not because the SRS is against women's participation in politics, because on the contrary, there are a lot of women in the SRS who not only participate in politics, but also in the literal sense lead party politics, they also decide on all important issues. We don't think this is the right way, because you can't legally, artificially prescribe and force participation in the politics of any sex, whether it's male or female, but to do it in a different way, you have to create awareness in people and women, and develop and encourage, and slowly get to that level. It is certain that as Serbian radicals, we are certainly much more than you, who are trying to show up as a pro-European path, have done for the affirmation of women in politics and participation of women in politics, because when you look at which party there are the most important women who have important roles in their political parties, and therefore an important role in the country's social and political life, it is certainly the SRS. Do we need to talk about New Sad Chief Maja Gojkovic, the Vice-President of the Republic Assembly of Mrs Pop-Lazic and the President of Zemun Municipality, Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Jorgovanka Tabaković and many others who, with full equal conditions, have fought to participate in an equal manner, to decide and be appreciated. On the other hand, when we look at the way you quasi-democracy are involved in politics, we've had opportunities to look at a group here called the Women's Political Network, when we remember what all these ladies were doing and how they were acting, do you think that's the way and the way to vote for more women in politics next day? Just remember that Mrs. V. D. Natasa Micic performed the duties of both the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic, and remember the attitude of the citizens about it. Therefore, do not hide behind European conventions, do not hide behind that road to Europe. Of course, the longer you lead us to Europe, the further we are from that Europe, the further I advise you to look up to the SRS. When you have the kind of personnel we have, then the affirmation of women in politics, in politics, be on a much higher level, and then, ladies and gentlemen, you won't need these and such provisions. So let women prove themselves, as in the SRS, by their work and qualities, and do not give them any support by ensuring their participation in the Government by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15256	Following the same amendment, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, Mr. Milajic, Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. He can reverse, first Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, then Mr Milajic, then Ljiljana Nestorović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15257	Here whenever we talk about the need for more women to be involved in the parliament of life in Serbia, this time we talk about the need to have more in the executive power, there is an extreme replacement of the thesis, and I am as a MP who, first of all, is in his political functioning and is sensitive to this subject felt the need to report and say something. So, a society with 56% of women in the electoral body, or 56% of the population are women, if that percentage in parliament is reflected in something below 10%, in the government we have one minister, it can't be a wise society, it can't be a wise parliament, it can't be a wise government. Because it does not reflect the specific needs and way of thinking, because it has 56% of the country's inhabitants. It is not a question of combating whether women and men, there is a question of getting as many women involved in parliamentary life as possible, in the executive power to make this society a quality. I have to say that today in the ministries, most of the ministries where women work most are women and labour are women. They work very often and overtime, work hard. The problem arises when a woman is to find herself in the position of a strategy, where concepts are being established that this society will develop, where real power lies, let's say, when it determines how money from the budget will go. There's never room for women. I must say that there must be a critical number of women represented here to be shown a principle that is a woman's principle, so that we don't constantly have a situation where women accept the male principle. We are not equal at birth, no one claims it, but we must have equal rights to express our talents and ambitions in an equal way and that is the essence. I pray that it simply ceases with such a replacement of thesis and that women have the right to participate in politics, as someone defends them, so if there is a two-million-year discrimination against women, and for two millenniums they almost had no right to inherit, even in such developed countries as the UK, they had no right to vote, then that civilization's injustice cannot be replaced by what you're going to say, here's who's defending you. Women must be encouraged to enter politics, take responsibility for the development of this society, and only then will this society be better quality. That is why the Social Democratic Party, as always when it comes to such topics, will support this amendment, Mrs Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15258	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The truth is, we have to say that in Serbia, key control over the budget, thank God, performs the lady, it is Ms. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15259	I just have to say, I'm surprised the government hasn't already adopted this amendment in advance and it hasn't become an integral part of the law. I simply expected the minister representing the law to do such a procedure, for the simple reason that he had sensitivity and hearing at the beginning of his term of office, to do certain things that went in favour of gender equality. I honestly think the failure that this small percentage of 30% of the less represented sex is not accepted is when the amendment is made. I just needed to say a replica of what my colleague from the Radical Party said, a party that has less than 5% of women in parliament. He's listed here seven of whom he has in the entire party, and that's proof that we don't have quality women, so he doesn't need a amendment like this to adopt. Unfortunately, in all our parties, where there are more than 40% of party members, we have as many quality members, at least as we have quality members. We're just asking to carry out a special measure that will one day be in our law, which will soon be in the process and which tells us that a society that doesn't care about parity, although we're not looking for it as a first step, can't be a democratic society. A society that gives up a large part of its population, its electoral body, greater than 50%, cannot be a democratic society. So neither the authorities can make democratic decisions if they are uniform and do not respect such a measure. I must point out once again that I expect the minister to accept this amendment, because, in my knowledge, he showed sensitivity at the beginning of the term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15260	Replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic, as he was referred to by the opposition of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15261	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's easy to talk, but what I want to say first is that certainly the fact that there's only one woman in this government may not be some particular happiness, but I also have to say that since we know who she is and how this government works, it would be much better if she wasn't any. It can be said for this previous government that for women such as Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic, whose name is bound by countless affairs, there is little to say that they have done much to affirm women's participation in politics. We Serbian radicals, of course, have nothing against it, nor to participate the ladies or ladies in the government and the judiciary, and it is known to some that in the Serbian judiciary today are mostly as first-degree judges about 80% of women. In the First Municipal Court, where I worked, that figure is even bigger, and it's about 90% of women, and they're judges. We never asked 30% of the judges to be men, because that way they would not give in to those women who must have fought with their own quality to be chosen, and I think they would have humiliated the men who might have applied, but they weren't chosen. What you're saying is that we have seven women in the party, it really can't stand, there's them in parliament, there's a lot of them in local self-government. In Kikind of 16 SRS committees, eight women are, therefore, 50%, not 30%. In the Old Town Community Assembly, where I am a councilman myself, I am the chairman of the municipal board, of the nine SRS council members, five are women. On my municipal board, the five presidents of the local committee, all five are ladies, two vice presidents, both women. Therefore, do not tell us how many women we have, what kind of participation they have, and how well they work. Look at yourself, and for so few women in parliament, the most responsible are those who are right now plunging to their rights, because they've done the most to make the number of women this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15262	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment cannot be accepted for one more reason, and that is because one or more vice presidents are predicting in attitude 1. Article 91 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly foreseen for the government to be made up of the Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers. The bill itself contains one or more vice-presidents, and this amendment provides for one or three vice-presidents, but cannot be one, because the Constitution is unequivocal and says - vice-presidents, meaning, in plural. They may be two or more vice-presidents of the government, but one can't, because they can't be one vice president. If it had been thought of the vice presidents at all, not in the plural, then it would have been said that the government was made up of the Prime Minister, one or more Deputy Prime Ministers and one or more ministers. Why would there have to be more ministers? One minister could be, one Prime Minister, one Deputy Prime Minister and make up a set of entire government. There's no need for any more ministers. I think that attitude, both in the bill and in this amendment, is simply unsustainable, and the distinction between the resolution ministers and ministers without portfolios is inappropriate, legally and technically unsustainable in the text of the law. Ministers have their own portfolio or they don't have it. Ministers or ministers without portfolio, ministers with portfolio or no portfolio can be resolute, but they can't combine one and the other. The whole law has made a huge failure, and it is tied to this member and should stand in the position of the 1st member of the law that all members of the government must be citizens of Serbia. It absolutely doesn't matter who can be a member of the government. This proposed law is absolutely possible for a foreigner to be your minister or Prime Minister. There are absolutely no restrictions on citizenship. Even in this next law, which will be discussed over the amendment, no mention of who may be a civil servant has been mentioned anywhere. It is likely to be governed by a special law, which can be a civil servant, so it is likely that the criteria for establishing a working relationship in the state authorities will be established. Since this is a special law that applies only to the government, we think there should be a provision that Serbian citizens can be members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15264	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15265	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment and the reasons for its refusal are an illustration of how the Assembly should function as an institution. So this is an amendment to Title 11 - Incompatibility and conflict of interest. I'm reading a member as proposed in the bill. It reads: "except for the function of the MP, members of the government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the institutions of Serbia-Montenegro, the body of the autonomous province, the municipalities, the city and the city of Belgrade, perform an act that is incompatible with the duties of members of the government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest." It's written so I don't believe any of you can repeat it without a lot of us even understanding what's written. The amendment is of a linguistic nature and therefore an illustration of haughtiness and stubbornness. The amendment reads: "A member of the government may be a People's MP. For a member of the government, a person who performs another public function in the state body, the institutions of Serbia-Montenegro, the body of the autonomous province, the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade cannot be elected. A member of the Government cannot perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of members of the Government, nor shall he be a participant of a conflict of interest. A candidate for a member of the government must remove any disturbance or conflict of interest at the latest on the day of the government's election." So, the amendment didn't interfere with anything except a precise language formulation. It's already the last twist of stubbornness. You can say you've reached the deadline. We are. The fourth position reads: "A candidate for a member of the government must remove any disturbance or conflict of interest at the latest on the day of the government's election". Why would any government refuse that? Why, if the provision to remove conflicts of interest with the deadline removes these interferences. We think it's necessary because it's an assumption for members of the government. The current Prime Minister and any future one will propose people who are otherwise engaged in a business of public interest. People who are in various sectors of public affairs or jobs of general importance are entering and entering the government, and why not accept the view that, if they are already engaged in public affairs, remove any disturbance no later than the day of the government's election. It is in accordance with the Law on Conflict of Interest and fully firmly provides for the provision to become a member of the Government in full compliance with the law. There was no reasonable explanation on the committee on which the amendment was held why this amendment was rejected, but the fact that you want to reject the amendment just to refuse the amendments is an image of the atmosphere. It's the right of most, but it's never good for most. It is a short pleasure of the current two minutes of voting and a long regret for the next two, five and 20 years after the wrong decisions, whose satisfaction lasts only two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15266	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, with only one sentence that Mrs. Comic has said to me that I should take the floor in front of all of you. In my understanding of Parliament and government, it is incompatible that the MP may be a minister, although at this point there is no limit nor does the new law provide for that restriction. These two branches of government are completely separate. My political ideal is that there is a clear distinction between these two branches of government. The MP can formally come into the situation to plead with only one vote, if he is a candidate for minister, to establish a cabinet, to hold a cabinet with his vote and to have the right to declare his right twice. Of course, a question of concept. Everyone has the right to suggest what they think. This is a pragmatic form for the reasons I understand, but if we want to improve parliamentaryism, the spirit of parliamentaryism to bring it to the very purity, if we wanted to be honest, if we didn't have these functional and party limitations, then we could say that the MP can't be a minister and that it is a question of conflict of jurisdiction. I'm sorry, I'm in the middle of something that's already been resolved, the Law of Conflict of Jurisdiction has been passed and he doesn't dispute this. I'm taking my stand on that. There's a whole series of questions. The Ministry shall submit a report to the relevant Assembly Committee on work once a year. The government should report to parliament once a year on work. The Minister who is a National MP has multiple increased rights compared to what would be normal. I don't plead for or against the amendment, I just thought this was the place to say it. If I had decided myself, I would never have made it clear that the MP could be a minister because the National Assembly is choosing the Government and because the National Assembly assumes responsibility for the quality of the exercise of the executive authority of that government, and because the MP who is the minister can often have speculations that are not best for the citizens, but concerning his positions in the government, or in the ministry itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15268	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Please prevent the rear-row image shop. The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic for the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15269	No parliament has said anything against a strict division of executive, judicial and legislative power. But this member of the law stands for Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the president, Deputy Prime Minister or ministers can be elected from the order of the MPs and, if that happens, retain the mandate of the MP. So this is the constitutional category. The moment we have a consensus on the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are likely to change this member of the law. There are parliamentary democracies where MPs cannot possibly be ministers either, and there is also a cradle of democracy - Great Britain, where the minister must be an MP, or the minister is elected from the ranks of MPs because of their rule that the minister must be someone whom the citizens directly supported. But this is about when we change the Constitution. As far as the Democratic Party of Serbia is concerned, we can discuss both. It's much more important to make these three branches of government, as much as possible, independent of each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15270	Thank you, Ambassador Prophetic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic, on the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15271	Mr. Markovic, you're trying to use this noise in the O.R. so you can move a little faster than you should from the amendment to the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS finds it not good for the same person to perform two such responsible functions, such as the function of the MP and member of the government. What is certain is that, in any large party that has a lot of personnel, and as on the political scene of Serbia alone, the Serbian Radical Party cannot be considered. Such a situation is possible, above all, in these vans, which have three or four members, as well as so many seats in parliament and government. So there's a situation like this that we have, that this unfortunate minister of work is also a member of the people. No one can convince us that he's a good performer of any of those two functions. Can anyone go out for this pay phone and say: Slobodan Lalovic was a good member of the MP's office. Of course he can't. Can anyone come out and say: Slobodan Lalovic was a good minister. Of course not. On the other hand, the further in the law, you predict that the minister, in addition to that function, can have the other, on the one hand, and on the other hand the abundance of some assistants, special advisors, deputies, and I don't know what you're not predicting for the minister. If this is a responsible function, extremely difficult, what should it be, then how can you predict what a person should be, with what intellectual and physical, first of all, abilities, so that he can perform these two functions at the same time. I don't think he's here. But it's not that controversial. It is very interesting this title above this article, where it says: "Incompatibility and conflict of interest". What incompatibility. It was supposed to stand there, eventually, which could be suggested later by Article 11, which follows, that it was incompatibility of functions. But that's not said anywhere. It wasn't the one who wrote this law, and the minister still won't tell us who it was, that Mr. Balinovac, if he was to blame for this law, if he nodded his head, here - the climate that he didn't, so we came to an interesting situation, that Mr. Minister didn't write the law, Mr. Balinovac didn't write it. Perhaps Prime Minister Kostunica should come and answer who wrote this law. The next thing, this article says -- except for the function of the MP, the members of the government, and then they list -- they cannot perform an act that is incompatible under the law with the duties of a member of the government. This is another expression that is certainly not used in Serbian. Each of us here would say that we cannot perform an act that is incompatible with the "debt" of a member of the government. Therefore, it is clear that this law has been written by someone who does not know the Serbian language well or Serbian grammar, but the basic order would be that, when a law comes to the assembly procedure, previously, at least professional services in the ministries, I believe that they are capable of processing the text of the law, to adapt it to the Serbian language and to the spirit of the legislators in Serbia, and only then does this come to a parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15272	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15273	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 12 has the title "The Prime Minister". The amendment that we have proposed for the most part represents changes in language nature, where it is not a question of style, but simply a question of the rules of our language, in order to be clear and legal, because the arguments in the given positions are unsuitable. What is the key content of this amendment is that the last position has been left out, because it cannot possibly be the subject of this law. Perhaps it could be the subject of the Government's Rules of Procedure, if the Government decides in some way, this and in any way. Therefore, the first position of Article 12 of the proposed text reads: "The Prime Minister is leading and directing the government, taking care of the unity of the government's political functioning, harmonising the work of government members, representing the government and calling and holding its meetings." The proposal in the amendment is, in the sense, the exact same text, but in our understanding of the legal and clear language, it is written -- that the Prime Minister represents the government, convenes and runs the government's sessions and coordinates the work of the ministry. What we have added is that the Prime Minister is responsible for achieving the government's programme. In no sentence, in any provision in the whole law, you have no word "responsible". I don't know if it's legislator psychology that subconsciously to him or to her, whoever wrote it is not responsible for using it, but it's a key sentence in any government law that the Prime Minister is responsible for achieving the government's programme. That's your definition, as it does, of the opposition working in parliament. He shares responsibility with the majority for institutions in parliament and is doing everything he can to prove that the government is incompetent. That, Serbianically speaking, is what the opposition does in every parliament. I see here that one part of the parliament, the opposition, agrees, knows the answer to the other question whether the government is incompetent, does not win - is, but I will jit. And the other part, which disagrees, which is the job of the opposition. That's the definition of opposition work. Together with the ruling majority, we share responsibility for the functioning of parliament, but we are doing everything we can to criticise the government and prove that the government is incompetent, any government, any opposition. So it must appear here that the Prime Minister is responsible for achieving the government's programme. That's why we choose him. The Assembly is not responsible for achieving the programme, but is responsible for the Prime Minister. A second position in the proposed member says, "The Prime Minister may give the other members of the government mandatory instructions and special duties, a similar programme and government policy. "Our proposal is that the Prime Minister is again responsible for the internal organisation of the government and for the concerted work of government authorities and organisations in achieving government policy, and that the Prime Minister is committed to the public of his work. I'll get you back to the government's public argument. The public work of the government, the public work of the assembly, is something you willingly agree to. The public work of local authorities is something that you voluntarily assume as a communication strategy with those you exist, with those who chose you, because it's not only normal in modern politics, but it's good for anyone who's in local authorities, in the assembly, in the government. So the Prime Minister commits to the public of his work. The last position in the proposed text is that a member of the government may request the government to decide whether or not it is meant to give instructions, the prime minister overstepped his powers. It can't be in government law. As much as you assured me an hour ago that it was Serbian politics and that someone said it couldn't, and the other one just said it could, if only, I don't believe it was Serbian politics. I think Serbian politics or politics in Serbia are more accurate, a space where we exchange arguments. I'm offering you arguments as to why it can't be stated in the law that a member of the government is asking the government to decide whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. Overruled by the Prime Minister's authority is a serious matter and can only be discussed in the assembly. Nowhere else. The government may conclude that it does not have a majority or that it has a majority to support it, regardless of over-authority, but it will not have a consensus, and it resigns or whatever it decides to do. A government member's initiative cannot be put in a provision like this, especially if this attitude is not worked out. So, even if we accept, since I know you will, that's not the point, the point is that all that we're saying is being in the records of the Assembly and hearing people who are going to have to work under this law, and finally the ones that we exist for. What if it is found that he or she has not exceeded his authority, what in one case or another is happening to a member of the government or to the Prime Minister. That doesn't stand here. So, the first case, you passed the law in the proposed text and one member of the government said, the president overstepped his powers and turned out not to be true; and what he says, I'm sorry, I won't ever again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15274	Time, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15275	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, you should have warned me earlier. I thank you and I really ask you to consider accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15276	Thank you. The first MP, Natasa Jovanovic, appeared in the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we've just reached the authority and what the Prime Minister, Article 12, is doing, and you see that passions are getting in the way and that there's nothing wrong with this law without saying that nothing's wrong. So, I can't say that Mrs. Comic is the best way to formulate, as would I or some member of the SRS, an amended member of the 12th on what the Prime Minister is doing. I really cannot agree with either the other or the third position, nor the SRS, or its MPs, who will come out after me, and accept this concept of what the Prime Minister is doing in the first place. We have indeed had a lot of legitimate objections to the work of the previous government and you know that because of the launch of the initiative by Serbian radicals, there has been a kind of vote of mistrust with the government of Zoran Zivkovic. He saw that it could no longer survive and that many, like him, ministers, and, above all, as prime minister, had exceeded their powers, their powers. The state has suffered some minor coups and there have been extraordinary parliamentary elections and the creation of this coalition of yours. You are now a year and a half after forming and such coalitions have come to this, and all the time Kostunica, here is spoken of, in his exposé, called on the institutions of the system and that they should not be arranged in a different way, what should be done by the executive authority in this country, that is, the man who is in charge of it. The view that the Prime Minister can give the other members of the government mandatory instructions and special responsibilities, in line with the programme and government policy, as well as the view that a member of the government may request that the government decide whether it has overstepped its powers, is obviously unknown, I cannot say that when there are legal experts or at least they are called promotions, which have written this law, the choice of government and government members, and what Mr Tomislav Nikolic told you yesterday. So, according to the Constitution of the prescribed procedure, it is known when and to whom the mandate for the composition of the government is entrusted. He has been violated on several occasions, and especially when it comes to the constitution of this new republican government, because it is known that the government's mandate is always the strongest and no one can, as you of that so-called. The democratic bloc, so it turns out that you are prone to some other methods that have nothing to do with democracy, and those of your predecessors to speculate on it, who is he if he won by the will of the people the largest number of votes in the elections, and he should get a mandate to form a government. In this particular case, it was meant to be the SRS and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, whether to provide most of it or not. We will see, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly how this majority of you will be maintained, because from opportunity to opportunity, from blackmail to blackmail, from transfer to transfer, it is seen that the Prime Minister is unable to do this. When it comes to a specific case of this kind of thinking, with a complete disagreement with the second and third position of the proposed Article 12, this first position, even though you may have had a good intention, is so clumsyly and pointlessly formulated. I have to read it for the public. You say, "The Prime Minister (see) leads and directs the government, takes care of the unity of the government's political functioning (I see how you are otherwise unique and how it has been manifested since Kostunica is prime minister), harmonizes the work of government members (for example, please, as if asked by these ministers or someone asks Kostunica how to run the country's finances and businesses, and informs him about it), represents the government and convenes and manages its sessions." This is the only thing we see on TV that we are calling and holding sessions, but it is not so often that the Prime Minister comes to parliament. He's only been twice since she was elected. Someone throws a lot out of the bench, of course, in a joke, because he's not an MP from the ruling furniture. Not that it's not enough, it's a shame. According to the Rules of Procedure, every session and every working day the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is called upon by the president and members of the government. You who, but in vain and without the right arguments, have said everything and everything about how to exercise power by Serbian radicals, have proved to be the only such behaviour and responsibility that citizens value, and yet you see it from the latest public opinion studies. We are the country's leading party, and with no elections scheduled, that rating is already 33%. Remember what it looked like when the vice presidents and ministers were members of the SRS government. (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic. There was not a single session of the National Assembly without almost all ministers, and some are now MPs here, and God and people will give will, there will be ministers again, there will be no sittings. Why didn't you write that the Prime Minister, instead of formulas like this, is obliged because it is a business obligation to report to the National Assembly on his work at least once every three months. It is not good and is not a good bill, for a simple reason, which he will not do what was the main asset and motive for allegedly assembling such a coalition and swallowing dumplings by Kostunica. Turns out there was chaos. Normal functioning, in this case of the executive branch of the government, will not be possible under this bill, and therefore, it would be best for you, Mr. Minister, to withdraw this law from the procedure and to propose, in accordance with the above-mentioned discussions, better form and text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15278	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been said that this amendment is only a style intervention, this member proposed by law. However, this amendment is essentially changing the proposed member. More specifically, if the intention is, it is clearly seen from the proposed Article 12. The bill, to strengthen the prime minister's position, according to constitutional provisions, proposed by the amendment, we are going back far and forth, and we are taking the prime minister to office as president of the presidency or something like that. Simply, those key interventions in the bill, that the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government and giving clear instructions and responsibilities to individual members, because to say that it is the candidate for the Prime Minister who proposes his programme that parliament adopts it, and it is literally these solutions that are the subject of the implementation of the programme, all these solutions have been left out of this amendment. According to this amendment, the president is also calling for some very vague way of harmonising the work and internal organisation of the government. The fact is that this bill respects the reality of the need for strong leadership in the executive government. The fact is that we didn't have this in the previous period and that we had total chaos in coordination between different ministries and the authorities of the administration. The greatest quality of this bill is found in Article 12. We have these solutions largely in parallel law. The strong position of the prime minister, the strong position of his cabinet, the authority of the Prime Minister, which stemmed from the political force of legitimacy won in the elections and the fact that during this period, especially in the one that follows us, European integration and harmonisation of a series of regulations, the need for strong leadership is clearly seen from the proposed Article 12. This amendment, as I have already said, brings us back, brings us back to the position of "the weak prime minister", returns us at a time when he presides over some body, does not lead, does not direct, is not responsible for the policy adopted in this parliament. It is simply not clear why it is re-proposing something that has proved to be bad in practice, and I have been convinced so far that it has been abandoned and that the need for a strong Prime Minister has been highlighted, which has been seen in the past 15 years, since there has been a multi-party in Serbia. We just had a "weak Prime Minister" disease. Some other authorities had strong positions at some point, as was the President of the Republic, and based on these positions, the laws on government were also made. The period and those solutions were inherited after 2000. Right now, a solution has been given to restore the importance and role of the government, and that is the reason to adopt such a member and such a solution -- the strong Prime Minister, who will be responsible for his programme, and be the recipient of the implementation of the programme. That's why the DSS can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15280	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15281	Thank you. With all due respect to the predecessors, I think he's really defending the defenseless. For the simple reason that the proposed member of the law can't support it in any way. If we want to have a "strong president" and a good coordination, as he says here, that he gives instructions and duties, it cannot depend, specifically in this case, in the government that we have, only on the Prime Minister and on the ministries that are divided by the feuds. What kind of government do we have right now? A government that has been created just so that every party within the ruling coalition meets certain demands or their private interests. My colleagues are getting, I don't want what they're getting me to comment on, but it's a fact. In this case, do we have a Prime Minister who can say by his authority that he has a stable government? She's gone. She's gone, no matter how many representatives of the ruling group want to play here. Whether our amendment is a legacy for a while or not. The fact is that Article 12 of Article 3 is the legacy of self-management. Nowhere in the world is there that a member of the government can demand that the government decide whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers, in case he is given some instructions or special duties. And what is that? It's self-government. And what if the president of the government is found to have exceeded his authority? Where are the sanctions? And why are the government and ministers discussing whether the Prime Minister has exceeded his authority? Who chooses who in this country? Therefore, for the best part, I understand my predecessor, I know that the difficult position to defend is indefensible, especially this text of the law, I can understand the fact that he has the intention of trying to convince the public and the ruling majority of the bill's proposal, but it is also the fact that Article 12 contains long-overrunning times in itself, self-government, and the fact that through this member you will not be able to give political authority to the current Prime Minister, because even when he formed the Government, he did not have that authority, for the simple reason that by making ministries according to political parties, by forming a government by the Federation, he lost that authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15282	You want a replica? Did you mention that? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15283	The proposal that has been made in the law and in the amendment. The amendment says, "The Prime Minister represents the government, convenes and runs the government's sessions and coordinates the work of the ministries. The Prime Minister is responsible for achieving the government's programme. The Prime Minister is responsible for the internal organisation of the government and for the concerted work of the government's authorities and organisations in achieving the government's policy. The Prime Minister is committed to the public of his work. "The proposed Article 12 says: "The Prime Minister leads and directs the government, takes care of the unity of the government's political functioning, synchronises the work of government members, represents the government and convenes and runs its sessions. The Prime Minister may give the other members of the Government mandatory instructions and special duties, in accordance with the programme and policy of the Government. A member of the government may request that the government decide whether or not the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. "It can't be clearer. What are the key words left out in the amendment? To lead, to direct, to give instructions, to order? What does that have to do with self-management? The proposed amendment, where he presides, where he agrees, where a commanding, authoritative function is left out, speaks of this past time. This is the president of the presidency of some authority in the 1990s, '80s or '70s. In that sense, it is the return of the spirit of self - control. And the text of Article 12 of the proposed law is a step towards modern solutions to an operational, efficient government, which has strong and firm leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15284	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15285	Article 12. The proposal for a government law is indeed a bad solution. Honestly, it can't be interpreted what the proposer really wanted, given the fact that attitude 2 and attitude 3 of this member is incompatible, not to say that they're in absolute cohesion. You really should agree, the government and the assembly majority, what you really want, what kind of government you want, what position the Prime Minister is in. That, my colleague, you're talking about some 70-year-old solutions and it's supposed to be an amendment solution, I don't know if, you may not remember, but have you read if anyone in the Government of Milka Planinc or Branko Mikulić was allowed to say, hey, Prime Minister, you've overstepped your powers. Of course it has nothing to do with what you're about to say. The fact is that it was necessary to put an amendment on this Article 12, and the amendment which was submitted was not only for linguistic reasons, as it stands in the light of this amendment, but in fact for the essential reasons of bringing this Article 12 into order. Of course, the amendment may not have, at least in the opinion of the SRS, addressed this issue in a comprehensive way, but it really is a better solution than it is in the bill. When this Article 12 is read and the argument given by the Government, which is why the amendment is not accepted, believe me, there is no telling what's worse. In the position of Article 12, it says - the Prime Minister may give the other members of the government mandatory instructions and special duties, consistent programme and government policy. But then he says -- a member of the government can demand that the government decide whether or not the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. Now, either you're going to give the Prime Minister some instructions or you're going to have ministers run the government. Again, what I have said many times today - in this law, the government is trying to place its current position and its current status. Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke several times in the media, and otherwise we Serbian radicals draw attention that we do not have one government today, we have as many governments as we have coalitions in the congregation's majority. Tomislav Nikolic spoke when he asked the Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to free the value added tax on the humanitarian aid that Serbian radicals in the form of computers have brought to schools in Kosovo and Metohica, and Prime Minister Kostunica told Mr Nikolic -- no, I can't tell you anything, you need to talk to Dinkic. Mr. Nikolic said -- I don't want to talk to Dinkic, you're the Prime Minister, give someone from that ministry to talk to on the subject. The Prime Minister said -- you know, Tomo, I don't have anyone at the finance ministry I can talk to. This is the situation in today's government, and for this reason, and this is the reason that, since it is widely known that in this government ministers function according to that people's "every village of lice", everyone is running their party's policy under some single government. Of course, the Prime Minister is trying to maybe use his instructions to introduce that government into something that should fit what he is here in his exposé when he presented his program and his government's programme, and since he's not doing it, that's why what's going on is happening, because even today, and without this law, the government members can tell the Prime Minister -- it can't do that, it can't do this, you've overstepped your powers, you can't tell me any more. Of course, they don't say all that publicly, but it's obvious from the government's functioning, from different statements about a different problem, when a government official comes out of one party, and then from the other and the third, so you don't know if they're the same government, whether they're the same coalition, who's the opposition. And that is why we in the SRS think that this amendment to Article 12, and with certain shortcomings, should be accepted, because it is a better solution than the solution in Article 12. A bill of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15286	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. It's in order of application. First it was Momir Markovic, then Zoran Krasic. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have warned you in principle that certain solutions to the bill are not in line with the Constitution, and so is the one concerning the composition, mandate and arrangements of the Government, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, and so on. Even this chapter II, concerning the composition, mandate and arrangement of the Government. Here's why. After each election, a new assembly is established, someone gets the mandate to form a government, come to this assembly, present his exposés, his programme, proposed by ministers, most of the total number of MPs vote for such a government, and the assumption is that all those ministers who have accepted the portfolio for such a policy and such a programme as the Prime Minister has set out in his exposé. It should be so in some correct political relations, especially when it comes to coalition governments. We have experience, though, really different, in this young democracy of ours, especially since 2000, when different accounts have to be settled. The previous government, which had 17 branches, including the one that is slightly less numerous as regards coalition partners, but the firmer coalition partners who are not willing to give in to any discounts, have escaped from the constitution and instead of strengthening how you wanted the post of Prime Minister, you are weakening the role of Prime Minister. First, the entire government and the Prime Minister himself are responsible only to the Assembly. He can't be responsible to ministers, he can't be interrogated by Dinkic. He's the one who needs to go over Dinkic, so he says - aman man, when we formed the government in his exposé, I said - we're going to run such a monetary or financial policy. You don't respect it, you're ready to solve it, or put pressure on it, so he says, resign, so he resigns. And imagine the situation, I believe it is happening, unfortunately, to Dinkic to come to Kostunica, so he tells him - you shouldn't have told me to do something like that at all, it's not in line with the G17 Plus or the IMF, or the World Bank, or what I know. If some experts still need the Prime Minister, if he needs any advisory bodies, he knows where to find them. But ministers must be under the hat of the Prime Minister and must be known everywhere who is the boss. Since we can't do it in practice, we've now written something that doesn't mean anything, so the Prime Minister leads and directs the government, although in Article 90, point 1. The constitution says that the government runs the politics of the Republic of Serbia, enforces laws and other regulations and general acts of the National Assembly What happens when parliament makes a decision, obliges the government to lead such a policy in the area. The Prime Minister is obliged to provide such a policy in parliament, but ministers will not listen and then one in a wedge, the other in a record, and nothing is done. For nothing, if there is no authority with the Prime Minister, who can do with those ministers who simply won't listen or will not do as parliament has obliged them, first of all with them, to clear up. No government can be held by force, nor should it be held by force, nor is it terrible for the government to fall. One government falls, another government forms, life goes on, we promote some relationships in society. It's something that's absolutely acceptable. But the situation with us is that when someone gets a hold of some of the choices in any way, by which trade, by the pressures from here, mostly by the side, through the bar, forms a government, his life goal is to push those four years, even if it all fell apart in the state. As long as that's the case, we'll stagnate or we'll go backwards. All these people should have the highest awareness, really respect these basic democratic principles and want first of all good to their own country, so they should know to confess to themselves and say: I came here, what I did, I did, I think I did good, now I'm powerless, I can't do it anymore, and let someone else do it. We don't seem to be going to live to see it for much longer. That is why, in our view, this 3rd position of this member, where a member of the government can demand that the government decide as a collegiate body whether or not the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers, and only Parliament can do so under the Constitution, absolutely unacceptable, only for this reason, which is unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15288	National MP Momir Markovic, then MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Dragan Šormaz. Is it okay, not to call the ruling majority, to give it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume that the minister, burdened with all duties as Minister of Local Self-Government, and mostly in municipalities where his coalition partners are in power, has not been able to read this bill, because if he had arrived, he would not have missed such a proposal in the process, since I know Mr. Lonchar as a very pedantic man. He says -- the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government, taking care of the unity of the government's political functioning, harmonising the work of government members, representing the government and calling and holding its sessions; Article 12; Article 1st position. It's a bill of law. I wonder how the Prime Minister will direct Minister of Capital Investment Velju Ilic, given that the bans have been split, that according to the ministry's verticals he will be in charge from top to bottom for certain tasks, how he will stop Velju Ilic in the tendering process. Because, ladies and gentlemen, and the sparrows at the Serbian branch know that it doesn't matter how much someone is looking for to build in those tenders of Velje Ilic, but how much they offer. Or how the Prime Minister will direct Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic to keep those money, Serbian money, four billion dollars he found in Cyprus, not to target the Virgin Islands, but to return them to Serbia. Or, as the health minister, Mr Tomic Milosavljevic, will direct the purchase of pharmaceutical products not to take so many commissions. Or how the Ministry of Agriculture will focus on doing a little differently, taking care of farmers' interests in Serbia. How when he first shared esnafes, bans, divided by the verticals of the ministry and literally what MP Verica Radeta said, the prime minister has no member of his party in the finance ministry, for example. Let me just finish this third position, and then I'll have an explanation. However, I expected here where it is said - the Prime Minister is leading and directing, so that in the end it may be - if it isn't something else, as it was in Article 5. The 3rd position of this member -- a member of the government may require the government to decide whether or not the Prime Minister has overstepped his mandate. I am interested, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in what the National Assembly is doing, in whether these three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial are fully equal, by swearing to the National Assembly and by the National Assembly, which is proposed by the Prime Minister. Who will decide whether someone from the government or whether the Prime Minister has overstepped his powers, if that is not done by the National Assembly. I have information that just Tuesday we will discuss the government's effects, the devastating effects of the government, and the president of the assembly put it on the agenda, and on Tuesday we will discuss what has been done, both in Serbia and Serbia, by the government. In the end, why are these three statutes of this law like this; it says -- "to avoid the possibility that the Prime Minister is going beyond the right to political orientation and to fall into the power of the minister that has been laid down by law. The bill allows the Minister to ask the Government to decide whether the Prime Minister has overstepped his political-oriented powers with his or her instructions. "I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who has the power to do so without the Prime Minister, as the first minister, who are the powers of the minister, without the Prime Minister having the right to literally imprison himself in every single line of these powers? What powers do ministers have more than the Prime Minister? Is the Prime Minister the first among the equals, or is he an elder of the entire government? So, Mr. Minister, at first I said, you weren't there, I suppose, that you didn't arrive at all the obligations to read the bill, and certainly you wouldn't go to the Assembly with a law like this, but at least you'd let it be redecorated. When you write a new law, find some who make more sense to write.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-18-0.u15290	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for supporting the amendment, Gordana Komic. According to Article 169(1), since I received notice from MPs that a transfer will be suspended at 17.30 p.m., since the sessions of the National Assembly and its committees are public, we interrupt today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic and then by MP Dragan Šormaz, on the occasion of the amendment, Ms. Comic. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the session of Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (exist in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the search under amendment to Article 12. The bill, submitted by MP Gordana Comic, as well as that MPs Zoran Krasic and Dragan Šormaz came forward for a word in the search for the amendment. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has Milos Aligrudic.
