ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-23-0.u15810	The Legislative Committee sat down and established that between the two amendments, adopted on Article 33 and Article 36. Bill of laws, no conflict. So there's no conflict between these provisions and they can be applied. It remains only a problem of integrity that, in relation to the amendment to Article 36, Article 36a of the Law proposal is introduced, but the problem can be solved by authentic interpretation of this assembly, when the issue is asked, or by amending the law at some subsequent time. Both amendments remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-23-0.u15811	So we can move on. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in general. For 157 against 58, it did not vote eight out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Banks on the basis of the internal credits, or loans, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and the banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans, in principle. For 158, against 68, three of the 229 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. As the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I conclude that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendments of MP Miloljub Albianic to Article 4 and to Article 6, with a correction. We're going to vote on the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 131, 29 of the 230 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting the draft law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans, in general. For 159 against 70, one of 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign loans, i.e. loans. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUBSIDENCE OF ORGANISED CRIME Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime, in principle. For 157 against 69, they did not vote three, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, in general. For 159 against 69, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 230 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SEMEN LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill of seed to the vote, in principle. For 138, against 91, he did not vote one of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Zoran Micovic, writing, withdrew amendments to Articles 2, 11, 13, 35, 72, 82 and 84. An integral part of the bill's proposal became amendments to the MPs: Zoran Micovic to Article 3, Milorad Krstin to Article 11, Zoran Micovic and Milorad Krstin to Article 28, Ivan Radic to Article 97 and Dragoljub Anastasovski to Article 105. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 153, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, out of 230 people's ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has proposed that this amendment be accepted. The Committee on Agriculture has proposed that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 202, against 23, abstention one, they did not vote four, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. So, the same situation as before, because the amendments to Vitomir Plužarevic and Mr Zoran Micovic are in collage. Please meet the Legislative Committee. A five-minute break. [[After break – 17.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, before we begin work after the break, insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find using the electronic voting system is evident that we have 127 MPs in the O.R. I ask Mr Aligrudic to report to us on the position of the Legislative Committee, so that we can proceed with the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-23-0.u15813	So here was the question of what was adopted, given that the Assembly voted the amendment of MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 3. The law, item 1 point 14), which says that the words "markets" are added to the words "and covers" and then the normal text of the bill's proposal goes on, so the confusion caused by the government, the Committee of Resolution, as well as the Legislative Committee, was accepted by the amendment of MP Zoran Micovic, who became an integral part of the text of the bill. The question has been raised: Is there a conflict between those two texts that were adopted? But for one thing, the first one, meaning Zoran Micovic, became an integral part of the text of the bill's proposal, and the Assembly does not particularly declare it in the voting day, while the amendment of Vitomir Plužarevic is an amendment on which the Assembly declares itself especially in the voting day. It follows that in the part where the text of the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic changes the basic text of the bill, changes the part of the text of the amendment that became an integral part of the text of the law, it is actually accepted, and becomes part of the text of the law exactly the amendment of Vitomir Plužarevic, and the second part of the text to which the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic does not apply remains as it is, with the amendment of Zoran Micovic. So we don't have a conflict. This practically means, here for the record and the stenogram, that the words added to the amendment by Vitomir Plužarevic "and includes" will be entered in the text of the law the next day, as will be published, and the words in the amendment to Zoran Micovic, which earlier became an integral part of the text of the bill that reads "and includes" will not be there. So instead of "and covering" it's going to be "and covering." In everything else, the text remains unchanged. This is not something the Assembly has to say about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-23-0.u15814	Thank you. We can continue the vote on the Semen Law proposal in particular. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 127, they did not vote 32 out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 106, they did not vote 34, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Rankovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 124, 37 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 126, 35 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 121, 39 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, of the 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 106, they did not vote 33 of the 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Prvoslav Savic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 123, 35 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, they did not vote 34 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of 227 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35 of the 228 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 126, they did not vote 34, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government has proposed that this amendment be accepted. The Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be accepted, by giving a legal-technical editorial of the amendments, which reads: "instead of the words "on Polish control (aprobation confidence)", the words "reliance on the recognition of seed crops" should stand. With this legal-technical editorial, the Committee on Agriculture was agreed by the amendment's applicant, MP Zoran Micovic, and the proposing representative. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, without legal technical regulation of the Committee on Agriculture, is legally possible. I am putting this amendment to the vote, with the legal and technical editorial of the Committee on Agriculture. For 203 against 22, they did not vote three, of the 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment, with a legal-technical editorial of the Committee on Agriculture. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of the 228 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 124, 36 of the 228 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Mit Avramov submitted to the 34th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 105, it did not vote 30 out of 226 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 106, he did not vote 31, of the 226 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 124, they did not vote 34 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 106, he did not vote 31, of the 226 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, they did not vote 33, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 123, 36 of the 227 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 121, 38 of the 227 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The article 84th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 105, 35 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Semen Bill in general. For 136, against 90, two of the 228 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of seed. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the ELECTROPRIVREDA Act since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act, in principle. For 155, against 67, they did not vote four out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act, in general. For 156, against 69, they didn't vote two of the 227 people. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the termination of the Electricity Act. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPLICATION AND EIDENTIFICATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property, in principle. For 121 against 68, with 34 abstentions, they did not vote 34 out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic, written in writing, withdrew an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 5a. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 120, six out of 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 124, they did not vote 33, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 121, 36 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 122, five of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 136, against 21, a abstentioned one, was not voted 68, out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 120, 37 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 124, they did not vote 34 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milan Stanimirovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 155, against seven, a abstentioned one, did not vote 63, out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 123, 37 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 120, it did not vote eight out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 121, 37 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 119, 39 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 119, 40 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 101, against 121, five of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 120, it did not vote 39 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 123, 36 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the application and registration of seized property in general. For 124, against 67, abstentioned 33, three of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the application and registration of seized property. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Security Act since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act in principle. For 156, against 13, the two abstentions, did not vote 56, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act in general. For 157, 70 of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Health Insurance Act. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TURISM Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the proposal for a tourism law in principle. For 128, against 67, 30 of the 225 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that by written amendment, MPs Svetlana Stojanovic were drawn to members 6, 17, 22, 26, 31, 46 and 50 and MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Staniša Stevanovic as members of 67. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments to the MPs: Leile Ruzdić-Trifunović on Article 10, Milan Ninić, Sanja Cekovic, Blagice Kostic and Staniša Stevanovic on Articles 11, 60, with correction, 62 with correction, 66, 124, 126, 126, 126 and 127 and Dragan Vuksanovic on Article 82. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 123, 78 of the 227 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 126, 75 of the 227 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 128, it did not vote 68 out of 226 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 124, 37 of the 227 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 126, seven of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, they did not vote 33 of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Bosnjak. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against 68, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 225 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 124, 78 of the 225 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Chapter IV above Articles 48 and Article 48 of the amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 124, 35 of the 225 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 50 and article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 224 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 127, he did not vote 31, out of 225 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 124, they did not vote 34 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 54 be added after article 54. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 123, 35 of the 225 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 126, they did not vote 32 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vuksanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 125, nine of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, it did not vote 35 out of 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, it did not vote 35 out of 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 152, against one, it did not vote 75 out of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 126, they did not vote 33, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 155, one abstention, they did not vote 72 of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, they did not vote 33 of the 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 124, 37 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 124, 36 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 84 be added after article 84. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 122, 36 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević submitted to the 90th Amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, they did not vote 34 out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 100th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 125, they did not vote 32 out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 102 by MP Zlatko Radic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 123, 35 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 109th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, 35 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to Article 116. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 127, 30 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 117th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, of the 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 120th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 159 against one, it did not vote 69 out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 126th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 123, 38 of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the proposal for a tourism law in general. For 127, against 67, it did not vote 35 out of 229 MPs. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a tourism law. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Government Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft government law to the vote in principle. For 127, against 95, did not vote 7, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs of Vjerica Radet to the members of 5th and Milan Stevovic to Article 40. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 124, they did not vote 74, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 3 and 3. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 122, 76 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 125, five out of 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 213, against 11, they did not vote four out of the 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 120, it did not vote 14 out of 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 122, 9 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 122, six of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 124, 75 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 121, they did not vote 73 of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to Part II and Article 10. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 121, four of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 74 of the 229 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 229 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 121, there were no 11 votes, out of 229 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 119, there were no 11 votes, out of 226 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 122, there was no vote of 8 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 224 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 119, nine of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was tabled by MP Gordana Komic, a proposing representative at the National Assembly session, accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 157 against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 66 out of 225 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 122, 7 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic, a representative of the proposings at the National Assembly session, accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 150, against five, he did not vote 71, out of 226 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 121, seven of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 121, 8 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session, with a correction. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 159 against one, it did not vote 67 out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 123, five of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 120, they did not vote 72 of the 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 121, 8 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above article 26. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 123, he did not vote 71, of the 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Comic and MP Zlatan Jovanovic, with a correction of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 124, five of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 120, 75 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and member of 33a be added after article 33. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 189, five of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Branislav Blazic submitted to the 36th amendment. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 224, against one, a abstentioned one, two of the 228 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 159 against 66, two of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added to part four. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 127, 67 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 45a be added after article 45a. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 125, 68 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill on government in general. For 129 against 95, two of the 226 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on government. We move to item 14 of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Administrative Committee of the Republic TELECOMMUNICATION AGENCY After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I am voting on the motion for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Management Board of the Republic of Telecommunications Agency. For 159, 67 of the 226 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Management Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on your behalf, the President and the members of the Governing Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency on the election. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a MEP FOR THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATE OF THE SERBIA ENERGETICS Agency After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of the President and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. For 128, against 97, two of the 227 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on your behalf, the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia on the election. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF CONCESSION FOR CONSECTION, CONSECTION AND USE OF THE AUTHORITY FROM HORGOS TO POSE, LOT1: BELGRAD-POZEGA (E-763), LOT 2: HORGOŠ-NOVI USA (E-75) and LOT 3: NEW U.S.-BELGRAD (E-75), WITH A CONCLUSION OF CONCLUSION Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search under which this decision is considered, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of the highway from Horgos to Požega, Lot 1: Belgrade-Požega (E-763), Lot 2: Horgos-Novi Sad (E-75) and Lot 3: Novi Sad-Belgrade (E-75), with a proposal for a conclusion. For 127, against 97, they did not vote three out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to grant concessions for the construction, maintenance and use of highway routes from Horgos to Požega, Lot 1: Belgrade-Požega (E-763), Lot 2: Horgos-Novi Sad (E-75) and Lot 3: Novi Sad-Belgrade (E-75), with a proposal for a conclusion. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL FOR THE CONCESSION OF CONCESSION FOR CONCESSION, CONSUMING AND USE OF THE AUTHORITY E-80 FROM NIŠ (PETLE TRUPALE) TO DIMITROVGRAD Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search under which this decision has been considered, we move to decision-making. I am putting the motion to grant concessions for the construction, maintenance and use of the E-80 highway from Nis (Trupala loop) to Dimitrovgrad. For 130, against 94, the abstention one, did not vote two, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to grant concessions for the construction, maintenance and use of the E-80 highway from Nis (Trupale loop) to Dimitrovgrad. We are moving to the 18th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEDICAL PROTECTION OF ANIMALS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2005, 2006. And 2007. YEAR Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we approach the vote on a proposal for a decision in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007, with a legal-technical revision of the Committee on Agriculture. For 144, against one, they did not vote 82 out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007, with a legal and technical revision of the Committee on Agriculture. Since we adopted the Proposal for a Decision on Animal Health Measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007, I am giving a break by 20.15 hours, for MPs to rest, and we continue with the 19th agenda - the proposal for a decision to apply immunity to MPs. Excuse me, one notice, appeal to the MPs to gather around 19.45 hours or 20.00 hours to get it over with. [[After breaks – 20,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the break, we continue the vote. Please determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find there are 127 MPs in the hall and we can move on to the vote. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – SUGGEST OF THE IMPLEMENTATION DECISION BY THE PEOPLE'S JOBS After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic in criminal proceedings K. No. 318/03, against which a criminal offence has been brought before the Municipal Court of Ubba for the crime of endangering dangerous weapons in the fight or fighting referred to in Article 56. KZRS, on the charge of OJT in Ub Kt. No. 315/03 of 13 December 2003. For 169 abstentions, 19 did not vote 18, of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Zlatko Radic in criminal proceedings K. No. 79/04, against which a criminal offence has been brought before the Municipality Court of Batocina for the criminal act of violence referred to in Article 220(2) in respect of the position of the 1st KZRS. For 169 abstentions of 20, 20 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Zlatko Radic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. VII K. 1144/04, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of slander under Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 192, against two, they did not vote 22, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Blagica Kostic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 200, against 6, there were 12 votes, out of 218 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Blagica Kostic. I put the motion for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Radojl Bukovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 187, against 9, they did not vote 23 out of 219 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Radojl Bukovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Radovan Teodorovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 205, against 8, it did not vote 7, out of 220 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Radovan Teodorovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Slobodan Zivkucin in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 208, against 9, they did not vote three out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Slobodan Zivkucin. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milan Ninic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 203 against four, it did not vote 13, out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milan Ninic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Stanisa Stevanovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. KZRS. For 202, against four, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 220 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Stanisa Stevanovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Tomislav Kitanovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 207, against 10, they did not vote four out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Tomislav Kitanovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Sanja Cekovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 208, against three, did not vote 10 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Sanja Cekovic. I am putting the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Nikola Jovanovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 204, against 9, it did not vote 8 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Nikola Jovanovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Radoslav Jovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 205, v. 9, it did not vote 7. Of the 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Radoslav Jovic. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 208, v. 8, abstention one, they did not vote four, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in the criminal procedure of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Vojislav Mihailovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 213, against 8, two of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Vojislav. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Veroljub Stevanovic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. For 212, v. 8, abstention one, two of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Veroljub Stevanovic in the criminal procedure of the business. No. XII K. 2216/2004, which was filed on private charges before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the crime of defamation referred to in Article 92(3) in connection with Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. That concludes the vote on immunity. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES OF THE NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL COUNCIL Since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move on to the vote, I remind you of the provisions of the Law on the basis of the education and education system relating to the selection of members of the National Education Council. According to Article 11(1). The law, the Council has 42 members, including the president, elected by the National Assembly in time of six years. Exceptional from Article 11(1). The law, half of the members of the first-chosen council's mandate, lasts three years. Article 11(3) of the Law provides for structures from which the members and presidents of the Council are elected from and from whose list of candidates, and paragraphs 7 and 8 show that at least half of the members of the Council and the President of the Council are elected from the order of experts in the field of education and education. I remind you that at a session held on 19 January 2005, the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed issues concerning the election of the President of the Council and the way in which the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 11(1) and Article 2. The law, elect members of the Council with a mandate of six or three years. The Committee, on this occasion, established a proposal on the selection of members of the Council for six or three years, and proposed that of three members from the order of academics - regular professors of the university, two members be elected to six, and one to three years (Potice I under (a) of the collection lists of candidates); one member of the Serbian Serb Matica from the regular professors of the university would be selected for three years (Potčka I under b) of the summary list); one member from the teachers of the University of Belgrade; one member from the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the list of the University of Kragujevac selects on three years (Potčka II under b) a member of the University of the University of Nis of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of Novim Sada (Potice III under Article III) of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the University of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section of the section Next: - one member of the Association of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogogoggogues of Serbia for six years (point V under k) of the collection list); - one member from the Order of the Association of Fine Pedagogogogog of Serbia for three years; - one member from the Order of the Association of Pedagog for Physical Culture of the Three Years (Pot of V under lj) of the Collection Lists); - one member from the OrderThe Association of Serbian psychologists for the Three Years (Point V sub m) of the Collection List; - one member from the RedPedagogical Society to the Six Years (Point V under n); - one member from the Pedagogical Society to the Six Years (Point of the Cities of the Cities). The Committee also proposes that when selecting members from the order of those structures from which more than one member is elected, and within the proposed number of members elected for six or three years, members who receive the most votes will be elected for six years. The Committee also set out a proposal for the President of the Council to be elected among the members selected from the order: - academics-regular professors of the University (Point I under a)st (a)supervised list); - teacher of the University of Belgrade (Point II of the Collection List); - teacher of other universities whose founder is the Republic, i.e. the Autonomous Province (Point of III of the Collection List); - Serbian Philosophical Society (Point of V under j) of the Collection Lists), and - National Minorities (Point of IX of Collection Lists). I'm voting on the proposal of the Education Committee. For 125, against 21, they did not vote 22, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted these suggestions. Since the National Assembly has accepted the proposals of the Education Committee, and before we approach the vote, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 11(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, each list of candidates, contains more candidates than the number of members elected, so that each MP votes for as many candidates as the members of the Council are elected from the order of the prescribed structure. We approach the vote on candidates for the election: (a) three members of the Council from the class of academics - regular professors of the university, from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and (b) one member of the Serbian Matica from the order of regular professors of the university, from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian Matica. The candidates for the selection of three members of the College Council - regular university professors are academician Milosav Marjanović, academician Niksa Stipčević, letter member SANU LjUbomir Maksimović, and Sofia Miloradovic. Since each of the four proposed candidates is selected three, I note that each MP can vote most for three candidates. I am voting on a proposal to elect academician Milosav Marjanovic as a member of the Council. For 124, against 24, they did not vote 73 out of 221 MPs. I would like to put the motion to elect academicist Nikša Stipcevic as a member of the Council. For 102 against five, no vote of 100, of 207 MPs. I would like to put the motion to elect a member of the Council, SANA member Ljubomir Maksimovic. For 126, against 8, they did not vote 74 out of 208 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Dr. Sofia Miloradovic as a member of the Council. For 27, against 13, four abstentions, they did not vote 172 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received for members of the Council from the academics' regular professors of the university, chose in time of six years Ljubomir Maksimovic, a letter member of SANU, and in time of three years academics Milosav Marjanovic. Candidates for the selection of one member of the Council from the order of members of the Mother of Serbia - regular professors of the University are Prof. Dr. Predrag Piper and Professor Mata Pižurica, on the proposal of the Mother of Serbia. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Dr. Predrag Piper as a member of the Council. For 195, against 15, two abstentions, three of the 215 MPs did not vote. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Dr. Mat Pajuric as a member of the Council. For 91, against four, he did not vote 121 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council from the order of members of the Mother of Serbian - regular professors of university, has chosen Professor Predrag Piper over three years. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of four members of the University of Belgrade teachers from a list of candidates submitted by the University of Belgrade. The candidates for the selection of four members of the University of Belgrade Council are Prof. Dr. Branko Stevanović, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Lipkovski, Prof. Dr. Ratko Jankov, Prof. Dr. Andrija Vesenović, Prof. Dr. Zvonimir Stankovic, Prof. Dr. Milutin Tadic, Prof. Dr. Đura Stevanović, Prof. Dr. Dragana Dulic, Prof. Goran Vujasković, Prof. Dr. Mijat Damjanović, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Belic and Prof. Dr. Vuk Milatović. As of the 12 candidates proposed are selected four, I note that each MP can vote for four candidates at most. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Branko Stevanovic as a member of the Council. For 194, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 219 MPs. I am putting on a motion to elect Professor Alexander Lipkovski as a member of the Council. For 200, against five, it was not 16 out of 221 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Ratko Jankov as a member of the Council. For 157, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, of 221 ambassadors. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Andrija Veselinović as a member of the Council. For 185, against two, they did not vote 34 out of 221 MPs. I would like to put the motion to be elected as a member of the Council by Prof. Dr. Zvonimir Stankovic. For 95, it did not vote 127, of 222 people's ambassadors. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Milutin Tadic as a member of the Council. For 95, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 126, of 222 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Djura Stevanovic as a member of the Council. For 95, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 125, of 221 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Dragan Dulic as a member of the Council. For 117, against two, a abstentioned one, was not voted 100 out of 220 ambassadors. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Goran Vujaskovic as a member of the Council. For 102, two abstentions, it did not vote 115, of 219 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Mijat Damjanovic as a member of the Council. For 125, against one, did not vote 95 out of 221 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Dragoljub Belic as a member of the Council. For 98, abstention one, they did not vote 122 out of 221 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Vuk Milatovic as a member of the Council. For 120, they didn't vote 102 out of 222 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen as a member of the Council from the Belgrade University's teacher's office at the time of six years Professor Alexander Lipkovski, and that Professor Branko Stevanovic, Professor Andrija Veselinovic and Professor Ratko Jankov, have been elected for a three-year period. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member from the order of teachers of other universities whose founder is autonomous province: (a) University of Nis, (b) University of Kragujevac, (v) University of Novi Sad, (g) University of Pristina based in Kosovo Mitrovica and (d) University of Art in Belgrade, from the list of candidates submitted by these universities, i.e. MPs. The candidates for the selection of a member of the Council of the University of Nis are Prof. Dr. Slobodan Kitić and Prof. Dr. Tomislav Pavlovic, at the proposal of the University of Nis. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Slobodan Kitic as a member of the Council. For 73, two, abstentions, two, were not voted 140, out of 217 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Tomislav Pavlovic as a member of the Council. For 191, a abstentioned one, not voted 27, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council from the order of teachers of the University of Nis, in three years' time, chose Professor Tomislav Pavlovic. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the University of Kragujevac teachers: Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Arsenijević, on the proposal of MP Dr. Goran Davidovic, and Dr. Momcilo Djordjevic, at the proposal of MP Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Nebojsa Arsenijević as a member of the Council. For 181, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, of 218 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Momcilo Djordjevic as a member of the Council. For 15, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 201 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the University of Kragujevac Teachers elected Professor Nebojsa Arsenijević in three years' time. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the New Sad University teacher: Dr Ljiljana Subotic, at the proposal of the University of Novi Sad, and Dr Milan Tripkovic, on the proposal of MP Donka Banovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Ljiljana Subotic as a member of the Council. For 72, against two, they did not vote 123 out of 197 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Milan Tripkovic as a member of the Council. For 174, two abstentions, no vote of 20, of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the University of Novi Sad Teachers elected Dr Milan Tripkovic in time of six years. Candidates for the election of a member of the University of Pristina Council, based in Kosovo Mitrovica: Prof. Dr. Radenko Krulj, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Kulic and Doc. Dr Dragisa Bojovic, on a proposal from the University of Pristina based in Kosovo Mitrovica. Since of the three candidates proposed, one is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Radenko Krulj as a member of the Council. 76 of the 197 MPs did not vote for 121. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Radivoje Kulic as a member of the Council. For 68, it did not vote 127, out of 195 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect a doctor as a member of the Council. Dr Dragisa Boyovic. For 70, against one, they did not vote 123 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of University of Pristina teachers based in Kosovo Mitrovica, in time of six years, chose Professor Dr Radenko Krulja. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the University of Art in Belgrade: Mr Branimir Karanovic, Mr Biljana Radovanovic, Ivica Rakic, Mr Zoran Vukovic and Dr Vesna Djukic-Dojcinovic, at the proposal of the University of Art in Belgrade. Since one of the five proposed candidates is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Branimir Karanovic as a member of the Council. For two, against two, a abstentioned one, was not voted 189, out of 194 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Biljana Radovanovic as a member of the Council. For four, against one, a abstentioned one, there was no 188 vote, of 194 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Ivica Rakic as a member of the Council. For three, they didn't vote 192 out of 195 MPs. I am putting on a motion to elect Mr Zoran Vukovic as a member of the Council. For 22, they did not vote 173, out of 195 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Vesna Djukic-Dojcinovic as a member of the Council. For 98, it did not vote 97 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a Council member from the Belgrade University of Art Teachers elected Dr Vesna Djukic-Dojcinovic in time of six years. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of Teachers' Colleges, from a list of candidates submitted by the Serbian Teachers' Colleges Community. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of Teachers of the Teachers' Colleges are Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic and Dr. Krstivoa Spijunovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting forward a motion to elect Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic as a member of the Council. 12 of the 193 MPs did not vote for 181. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Krstivova Spionovic as a member of the Council. For 70, they didn't vote 122 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of Teachers of the Faculty of Teachers, in time of six years, chose Dr Alexander Jovanovic. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council from the ranks of professional associations of teachers, educators and professional associates: (a) Community of teachers of preschool institutions, (b) Union of teachers of Serbia, (v) Association for Serbian Language, (g) Association for Foreign Languages of Serbia, (d) Association of Mathematicians of Serbia, (d) The Union of Society of Society of History of Serbia, (e) Serbian Geographical Society, (g) Association of Physicians of Serbia, (g) Serbian Chemical Society, (g) Serbian Biological Society, (j) Serbian Philosophysic Society, (k) The Union of Association of Associations of Music and Ballet of Serbian Pedagogues, (h) The Association of Artists of Music and Ballets of Serbia, (h) The Association of the Association of Students of the Deficientists of Serbia, i.e.e.i.e.e.e.e., the candidates from the candidates from the candidates. The candidates for selecting a member of the Council from the pre-school education community are Nevenka Vukolić, Ranka Marinkovic, Nedeljka Petrovic, Marina Arizanovic, Gordana Stankovic and Ljiljana Trisic, on a proposal from the Alliance of the Association of Education of Serbia. Since one of the six proposed candidates is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting on a motion to elect Nevenka Vukolić as a member of the Council. For two, against one, a abstentioned one, there was no 188, of 192 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Ranka Marinkovic as a member of the Council. 77 of the 193 MPs did not vote for 116. I am putting the motion to elect Sunday Petrovic as a member of the Council. For two, he did not vote 191, of 193 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Marina Arizanovic as a member of the Council. In two, it did not vote 189, of the 191 MP. I am putting the motion to elect Gordana Stankovic as a member of the Council. In four, it did not vote 188, out of 192 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Ljiljana Trisic as a member of the Council; for 67, it was not 126, of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Community of Teachers of Preschool Institutions, in three years' time, has chosen Ranka Marinkovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of Serbian Teachers' Union are Stanisa Kostadinovic, Miroslav Marinkovic and Vera Stojsic-Gasparovski, on a proposal from the Union of Teachers of Serbia. Since of the three candidates proposed, one is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Staniša Kostadinovic as a member of the Council. For 185, nine of the 194 MPs did not vote. I am putting the motion to elect Miroslav Marinkovic as a member of the Council. For two, they didn't vote 193, out of 195 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vera Stojsic-Gasparovski as a member of the Council; For four, it was not 186, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of Serbian Teachers' Union, in three years' time, chose Stanisha Kostadinovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian-language Association of Council are Prof. Dr. Ljubomir Popovic and Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Bajic, on a proposal from the Serbian Language and Literature Society of Serbia. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljubomir Popovic as a member of the Council. For 96, against one, they did not vote 92 out of 189 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljiljana Bajic as a member of the Council. For 22, a abstentioned one, did not vote 166, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serb Language Society of Serbia, in time of six years, chose Dr. Ljubomir Popovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Foreign Language Association of Serbia are Prof. Dr. Milana Radic-Dugonjic, Prof. Dr. Smiljka Stojanovic, Prof. Dr. Juliana Beli-Genc and Prof. Dr. Dusanka Tocanac, on a proposal from the Association for Foreign Languages and Literature of Serbia. Since one candidate is elected out of four, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milan Radic-Dugonjic as a member of the Council. For two, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 124 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Smiljko Stojanovic as a member of the Council. For 115, it did not vote 12 out of 127 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Julian Beli-Genz as a member of the Council. For two, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 124 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Dušanka Točanac as a member of the Council. For three, they didn't vote 124 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Foreign Language Society of Serbia, in time of six years, chose Professor Dr. Smiljka Stojanovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Association of Mathematicians of Serbia are Dr. Zoran Kadelburg and Dr. Rade Doroslovski, on a proposal from the Association of Mathematicalians of Serbia. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Dr. Zoran Kadelburg as a member of the Council. For 119, there was no vote of 8 out of 127 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Dr. Rade Doroslovsky as a member of the Council. For three, they didn't vote 124 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Association of Mathematicians of Serbia, in time of six years, chose Dr. Zoran Kadellburg. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Union of Associations of Serbian historians are Dr Momcilo Pavlovic and Nebojsa Jovanovic, at the proposal of the Serbian History Society "Stojan Novakovic". Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Momcilo Pavlovic as a member of the Council. For four, they did not vote 123 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Nebojsa Jovanovic as a member of the Council. For 97, it did not vote 30 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Union of Associations of Serbian historians, in three years' time, chose Nebojsa Jovanovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serbian Geographic Society are Radojka Vlajev, Dr Gordana Vojkovic and Dr Milan Bursac, on the proposal of the Serbian Geographic Society. Since of the three candidates proposed, one is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Radojko Vlajev as a member of the Council. For three, two abstentions, they did not vote 123 out of 128 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Gordana Vojkovic as a member of the Council. For four, they did not vote 123 out of 127 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Milan Bursac as a member of the Council. For 100, a abstentioned one, was not voted 26 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serb Geographic Society, in three years' time, chose Dr Milan Bursac. The candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Association of Physicians of Serbia are Prof. Dr. Ivan Anicin, on the proposal of the Association of Physicists of Serbia and Divna Jovanovic, on the proposal of MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Ivan Anikin as a member of the Council. For 22, abstention three, they did not vote 102 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr. Divna Jovanovic as a member of the Council. For 99, it did not vote 28 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Association of Physicians of Serbia, in three years' time, chose Divna Jovanovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serbian Chemical Society are Prof. Dr. Teodor Ast and Prof. Dr. Sofia Sovilj, on the proposal of the Serbian Chemical Society. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Theodore Ast as a member of the Council. For three, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 124 out of 128 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Sofia Sovilj as a member of the Council. For 106, they did not vote 22 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serbian Chemical Society, in three years' time, chose Professor Dr. Sofia Sovilj. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serbian Biological Society are Dr Draga Simic, on the proposal of the Serbian Biological Society and Vesna Markovic, on the proposal of MP Vesna Obradovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Draga Simic as a member of the Council. For 22, it did not vote 105, out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Vesna Markovic as a member of the Council. For 96, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 30, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serb Biological Society, in time of six years, chose Vesna Markovic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serbian Philosophy Society are Prof. Dr. Simo Elakovic, Prof. Dr. Živan Lazovic and academician Michaelo Đuric, on the proposal of the Serbian Philosophy Society. Since of the three candidates proposed, one is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Simo Elakovic as a member of the Council. For two, against one, they did not vote 124 out of 127 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Živan Lazovic as a member of the Council. In two, it did not vote 125 out of 127 MPs. I would like to put on a motion to elect an academic named Mihailo Đuric as a member of the Council. For 119, there was no vote of 8 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serbian Philosopher's Society, in time of six years, has chosen academics Mikhail Đuric. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Union of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia are Mr Bodin Starcevic, Mirjana Suica-Babic and Mr Vesna Krsic-Sekulic, at the proposal of the Union of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia. Since of the three candidates proposed, one is elected, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Bodine Starcevic as a member of the Council. For 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Mirjana Suica-Babic as a member of the Council. For 17, a abstentioned one, was not voted 110, out of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Vesna Krsic-Sekulic as a member of the Council. For three, they did not vote 123 out of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Union of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia, in time of six years, chose Mr Bodin Starcevic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serbian Association of Fine Arts are Dr Zdravko Milenkovic, at the proposal of the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia and Branislav Todorov, on the proposal of MP Ivan Josimov. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am putting the motion to elect Dr. Zdravko Milinkovic as a member of the Council. For 7, 120 of the 127 MPs did not vote. I am putting the motion to elect Branislav Todorovi as a member of the Council. For 90, it did not vote 36 out of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Association of Fine Arts of Serbia, in three years' time, chose Branislav Todorov. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Pedagogical Union for Physical Culture are Prof. Dr. Vladimir Kebin and Prof. Dr. Jaroslav Radojevic, at the proposal of the Association of Pedagogical Natural Culture of Serbia. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Vladimir Kebin as a member of the Council. For three, against one, they did not vote 123 out of 127 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Dr Jaroslav Radojevic as a member of the Council. For 117, against one, it did not vote 8 out of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Federation of Pedagogical Culture, in three years' time, chose Professor Dr. Jaroslav Radojevic. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council of Serbian Psychologists' Association are Prof. Dr. Biljan Trebišanin and Professor Dr. Aleksandar Milojevic, on the proposal of the Serbian Psychological Society. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Biljan Trebišanin as a member of the Council. In 30, against one, it did not vote 96 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Alexander Milojevic as a member of the Council. For 90, it did not vote 37 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Serbian Psychological Society, in three years' time, chose Professor Dr. Aleksandr Milojevic. As far as I can tell, we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a five-minute break.
