ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 85 of the Statute. 4 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session exclusively for Monday, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda, which in its request to hold the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia, was established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since we don't have a sufficient number, the adoption of the minutes from the previous session will be done in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 10th extraordinary session with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Radio Diffusion Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic, minister of education and sports, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18349	Dear MPs, today we have before us a proposal for a law on higher education, which at the shortest represents one of the European standards that our country is constantly adopting, and this is a standard that applies to higher education and more to our public than to Members of Parliament, and that this law, and that it is not a European standard, should be adopted, because in the personal interest of each student, each professor, is in our national and state interest, as you wish. I'm not going to talk for long, but I'm just asking for a little concentration, mine first of all, because it's about the system law, which applies to several hundred thousand people, both younger and older, and that's what's important to them. This law represents the education of a system of higher education for all European countries. All European countries accepted that obligation, including ours, a few years ago. Of course, such a job takes time, not for a short time, and therefore, every two years, ministerial conferences are held, where representatives of all European countries meet and exchange experiences, tell each other to which the education of the higher education system has reached. Of course, this job is not easy, among other things, and because each country has its own specificities and therefore, no matter how much this common European "girl's apron" is needed for everyone, no matter how much it has been addressed to the needs of the economy of European countries, and one continent, they are being held back in each individual case by the specificities of different states, because they, as we know, differ by a lot. First by economic status, by economic strength, and then by its tradition of its education system. So, in this law, there are a lot of changes in form. Some of the names that existed with us, in our tradition, are now changing and becoming educated with other countries, so teachers and students can communicate more easily, can move more easily, that our students and teachers also go to work and study in other countries, but also, God will give us that professors come from other countries to our country. But what is not a form, or is not just a form, but a essence, is a change in the way you study. And it's also the biggest change, and the most important and useful for our students, our professors and our country in general. It's about this law that, from the moment it's adopted and when universities start applying it, students and teachers have to work in continuous, continuous communication all the time during one school year, regardless of whether the exam is one semester or two months. This means that in this direct, joint communication and work, a student will collect a number of points in a school year on the basis of his work, there is a minimum and maximum, and that if more of these points have been collected, if more of his work has been invested, if he has worked harder, it will be so much easier to pass that classic final exam that he has always existed and will continue to exist. And if there is nothing else, even if there is no process in Europe, even if there is not all the other changes this law makes, I think it would be worth adopting this law. A few words to say for the sake of your information and in general to inform the public how this law came into existence. So, in November of last year, the rectors of state and then private universities responded to my request. We gathered for the first time, and since then we have been gathering regularly in the office of Minister of Education and Sports. They brought in texts prepared by the working groups of their universities, the representatives of the student organisations came, then the deans came individually, the representatives of certain Czech associations, and each contributed some of their own, some of our own proposal, and we put together the full three months of that skeleton - the basic text of the law. After that, you may remember, people from different sides came forward, with some additional suggestions, so people or institutions that don't belong to that, let's say, the rectorial circle, and we also adopted those remarks. Requirements have arrived from the province of Vojvodina and they have been adopted. Additional amendments have arrived to some student organisations, specific, related to some issues exclusively interesting to students, and they have been adopted. And so, a little by little, with two withdrawals of the law, which is why we lost only two months, because otherwise this law would be 10 June here on the Parliament's agenda, not June 10th, but at the end of August, and I don't think it's such a terrible waste of time. We received one text of the law in which writing was actually attended by all. And all the interests, I think, are satisfied. Of course, at this final stage were the MPs of our Assembly, so you, and we have adopted amendments literally from all parliamentary groups, all parliamentary parties, represented in our Assembly. We didn't adopt all the amendments, because there was no need for that. I can tell you that was one nice piece of information for all of us, that we had a quadruple of identical amendments. So, one amendment was submitted by four MPs from different parties, politically different and opposed, but with the same idea and even with the same text. So that number of several hundred amendments was so much smaller. We adopted amendments based on suggestions we heard at meetings with parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, so again with you. These were conversations very fruitful, effective. We have been completely open to this mode of work, according to this kind of suggestion, of course, always respecting everything that has been our principle since the beginning, which I have been trying to follow consistently and has succeeded until today, which is that the autonomy of the university really gets one verification when writing such an important legal text. That means that, first of all, we respected the voice of the rector, the voice of the dean, the voice of the students, their organizations. This law was not written by ministry officials, it was not written, first of all, by politicians. For these procedural reasons, all of the government's amendments, which we call governmental here in the procedure, are actually amendments to our MPs, along with several amendments to student organisations. I am using this opportunity to sincerely thank the MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic, Mezu Omerović, Zarko Obradovic, Milisav Petronivic, Vladimir Homan, Miloljub Albianic, Dragor Hiber and Velimir Simonovic. Their amendments were not only adopted, but they in our talks and meetings contributed greatly to improving this text of the law. We wanted to adopt as many amendments as possible, so that the text of the law would be better. We didn't want to create some sort of reluctance of party or political nature, so the law would be weaker. What is also important is one observation that we heard last night on the Committee on the Education of the Serbian Parliament, which unanimously adopted this proposal, and that was a compliment to us, which is an observation relating to the financing of a new way of studying. She's completely justified, she's a prerequisite for all kinds of change, for every kind of progress. The question has been raised whether the state will have financial powers to finance one relatively, partly or to a greater or lesser extent, a new way of studying. You know, I could have answered that at that moment, and I repeat to everyone now, that this legal text, like everyone else, went through all the ministries, got its verification, and in particular it was an important verification, the Ministry of Finance's opinion. The Ministry of Finance approved such a legal proposal. So, people who are most professional, most called and most responsible, estimate that such a study of states can finance, if we go from facts and assumptions that the economic situation in Serbia will be the same as it is today, this year, so the state can finance and stand behind this legislative proposal, and we all want the same yearly and yearly financial situation to be better. Even if it isn't, we all have to understand and accept, whether it's as difficult as a poor country or not, that education costs a lot and costs a lot of money everywhere in the world, but that rich countries and countries that have a strategy with regard to all levels of education single out a very large amount of funding from their gross national income for education, because as expensive as it is, it's the most rewarding and secure investment. It has been since the world and the ages, and so it will be and there is no reason why we should not stick to it in Serbia, as a European civilised country. Finally, to say that good manners require me to thank the rectors, first and foremost, as the most prominent legitimate representatives of my universities, everyone else in the academic community, so also students, their representatives, deans, and to thank Mrs. Donka Banovic, the chairman of the Committee for Education in the Serbian Assembly, who has been leading this part of the work that applies to the Assembly all the time. Of course, these good manners also require that I thank two non-partisan personalities, therefore, persons of the order of the professors, who were our most loyal, who were sacrificed until the last moment, and at those times when there was some controversy in the public around this law, when the amendments came, when suggestions came. So, professors Simi Avramovic and Leon Tsin, who made a great contribution, although on no basis, neither party nor university, were obliged to put so much time, believe me, a lot of time and a lot of effort into writing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18350	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18351	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the National Assembly of Serbia today discusses a very important law, a law on higher education, which speaks with its content and solutions, in fact, about the state of society, the attitude towards higher education and science, the understanding of their importance, willingness and ambition to invest in education, knowledge and science, as the basic driving forces of development of each social community invests in the future and prosperity. For the SPS, this bill is a step forward in relation to the existing law, an attempt to introduce order in the chaos that exists in higher education, setting standards and criteria for high education to restore the specific weight that it lost in so-called. The democratic changes, the introduction of the goals of the Bologna Declaration, which so much has been discussed, and nothing has done, respect for our specialities, values and traditions, which have been ruthlessly attacked and broken always in the name of more goals, and for personal interest and profit. The proposed law is more law-set goals than the law of norms. It is reformish by character, because the content and process of study makes it more effective than it has ever been. The law increases the responsibility of both teachers and students in the process of education, creates an opportunity for more objective evaluation of students' work, greater and better quality teaching, creates conditions for more effective study, for the passing of students and teachers in the country and abroad, increases expertise and other positive things. The law laid down certain conditions for the establishment and operation of private higher education institutions, which will uncontestably increase the quality of these institutions, but certainly also the knowledge of the students. The law, consistent with the content of the Bologna Declaration, promotes the concept of an integrated university, retaining the specialities of the University of Belgrade. Within the framework of the project of efficient, market and human, solidarity and fair society for which the SPS advocates, non-classical societies, privileges, discrimination, social justice societies and equal opportunities for all citizens, in the field of education and science, the SPS is defined for free and free education, for the right to all levels of education in which everyone has equal chances, independent of social and material status. We therefore believe that it is good that the law retains earlier solutions on the free education of the best students, and our opinion is that they should be as many as possible, because in this way some of the objectives of this law will be met, which also gives opportunity to those who themselves finance that, if they are good students, they regularly pass exams and achieve the required number of points, that they can finance themselves from the budget next year. I would like to point out that the SPS is for the open character of higher education institutions and sciences, for the free and responsible university and science, or culture and art, for the full academic freedoms and autonomy of the university. The SPS advocates an education system based not only on universal scientific settings and civilizational achievements, but also on its own experiences, the care of Serbian language, its own culture and customs, as an integral part of European culture. Why should we make our share of the culture from the total European heritage, because it is both natural and geographical and historical and whatever you want, we belong. The full respect of different cultures, languages and personalities of national education systems, however, are contained in the Bologna Declaration, which many in inadequate terms interpret, because unfortunately they do not understand or want to know. The content and importance of the Bologna Declaration and others related to higher education should be discussed, as the objectives are contained in the Bologna Declaration, i.e. their acceptance within our legal solutions, one of the reasons for considering and adopting this law. We are passing this law in order to be compatible with the European educational space, with the need to retain what is our national, to retain what is tradition, to retain the values and qualities that our education system has. On the way to European integration, in this case in the field of education, we should not give of our integrity and values more than we must, and what they ask us, and what is in our interest. I'm making this point for the reason that we're going to get better. It's known and perfectly natural. It is necessary today when we talk about this law to our public to explain the importance of the contents of the Bologna Declaration, but in one real way. Certainly different than what has been done over the past four or five years, because it has been explained to us as something that is meant, unspeakably implies and unspeakably accepts, therefore, everything that comes into the field of education from Europe, and one part of it, significant, but still only one piece, while at the same time negating everything that is our own, with claims that from other parts of Europe, in this case Eastern, there is no, there is nothing to offer. So that nothing is good with us, that we are not good, that it takes a very long time to join Europe. If not, I don't think it takes a lot of arguments, and that's not how the contents of the Bologna and other declarations brought about in this matter, but also the facts relating to our education system and values. In fact, it is known that our academics, our students, either go to some of the Western universities at the time of schooling themselves or when they finish studying, when they go to other countries to work, become the best students or the most prominent experts, which speaks enough about the values that our Brazilian system has. The Bologna Declaration itself is, as the word "declaration" itself says, something that is not a commitment. In this case, it is our need to accept certain recommendations, and later I will say which things are involved, and formally be part of the European educational space. I say, formally, since we essentially are. At one consultation on the Draft Law on Higher Education, held at the beginning of the year in the SPS, prominent professors presented information on the values and importance of our country's higher education. So, for example, it was reported that in 1961 in our country it was the first course of genetic engineering and molecular biology, the first one compared to the whole of Europe. Then, individual courses and programmes from natural mathematical disciplines, from the field of technical and technological sciences, and from social disciplines. This says that we have something to offer Europe, too, and there's something from us to take, not just receive, accept, and it's unspeakable and unreserved. The need to respect the specificities of education systems and their importance is spoken of by the Bologna Declaration, as well as by Lisbon, which is older by the time of origin. In fact, the Lisbon Declaration finds that "a great variety of education systems on the basis of Europe reflects its cultural, social, political, philosophical, religious and economic diversity, which is an exceptional treasure to be fully respected. "The Bologna Declaration also notes that building a European space of higher education and achieving the objectives set should be achieved "in the framework of our institutional powers and fully respecting the diversity of cultures, languages, the national education system and the autonomy of the university. "I stress the word - diversity; the diversity of Europe, which is not or is present with us, but only in the traces of dust. Western Europe usurped Europe's identity, as if another Eastern Christianity Europe did not exist. Never has our culture, science and spiritual sphere been so rigidly closed in some directions, as in this time of so-called democratic change. That's not good, that's known, but it's a team before it's surprised that no one's answering. I mention this because it is also necessary to respect the values, the positive specificities of our education system and our pedagogical traditions, but also the values of the state and the whole of Europe, and not just one part of it, according to the rule of that economically and militaryly strong state, which, by purchasing knowledge, are trying to set standards mandatory for all others. The SPS considers that the bill contains solutions that the Bologna Declaration considers to be of primary importance for the establishment of a European higher education system. It is, above all, about the system of recognizable and comparable academic degrees, about the system of higher education based on two main cycles, on the degree of education of undergraduate and postgraduate, on the introduction of a score transfer system as a means to improve the free movement of students. The bill also promotes the mobility of students, teachers, co-workers and administrative staff, co-operation to ensure the quality of education and points to the European dimension of higher education, especially in the development of teaching programmes, interinstitutional co-operation in studies, training and research programmes. The objectives set, as well as the other objectives contained in the bill, as providing academic freedoms and autonomy to the university, will not be substantially achieved unless the material status and status of teachers and associates, in the university and in higher schools, as well as the material conditions of study are improved. Only in this way can university teachers regain the lost trust and importance of their mission, and the lost respect of the professor's call. The fact, for example, works at the Belgrade University, which has 30 or 31 universities and over, or around 100,000 students, is such that income differences are huge. Salaries vary, moving between 1 and 6, and we think that the state should react there, to improve the material status of employees at the university, but also create material conditions for a better position of the university. A step in the right direction in the area of higher education, which is made by the adoption of this law, does not mean that the law is ideal, since in one part of the content, it only legalises the existing situation which is as it is and represents our speciality. There are no solutions that can't be fixed, the concepts that need to be clarified, and even provisions that don't belong there. The SPS has submitted several amendments to this bill. I can express my satisfaction on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that a number of amendments have been accepted through the government's amendment proposal, and one part through the talks we had with the minister and his team. We think that these amendments improved the content of this law and settled some issues that may not seem controversial at this point, but may be controversial, that they have set some standards in a different way, in our own way, more realistic. Since my colleague Petronijevic will also talk about the content of this law, I will mention only a few things, or several amendments, to this occasion. I think it is a good thing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the SPS amendment to Article 62, that a provision which provides for the possibility of being fired, or that there may be an interruption of the working relationship for a person who has violated the code of professional ethics, does not exist in this law. We think this is good because the violation of the Code of Professional Ethics can hardly be proven and we think that there must be no reason to prevent the acquisition of the calling of teachers, or associates. Because in the previous part of the law, or the content of that article, there are very taxing reasons why one cannot be chosen to call a teacher, or associate. I mention this for the reasons that in the past we have witnessed through the existing law that the provisions of the laws that have been fully neutrally used in order for a number of teachers to be lustrated from Belgrade University. In June 2002, when the Law was passed, the case works, a procedure for reviewing the call for 45 teachers was launched at the Medical Faculty. Then one selection, which absolutely meant one political approach, reduced the number to 16 teachers, who were fired because they were chosen to call in the Law. There was even a reason that some teachers were not elected to the council, and let's say they were the subject of a debate at the council, because some of them worked at a multidisciplinary study centre. So they were the subject of studying the teaching council. But the power of God does not pray, the time was such, the political criteria were primary to science, so unfortunately, what was happening at the Medical School. For example, there was a situation that one of those 16 professors of Belgrade University, the Medical Faculty, who got fired, was a man who had 190 scientific papers, 22 books, of which 2 monographs of international character. And the paradox works, and how we have it all, and all life suffers, and what all DOS did, at the same session of the scientific and teaching council, when this professor got fired, another professor was elected to call, whose main criterion was that he was chosen to have one book of international character, and the editor of that book was the professor who had just been fired. That says enough how it was done and how the provisions that are completely neutral, the re-examination of whether someone is chosen in the right way, can be misused, let alone what it would look like if this regulation on the violation of the code of professional ethics remained. Otherwise, so far the judgment of those 16 teachers 3 have been returned to the same places, the other 13 are waiting. I think the judiciary will have to do their job based on facts, and just the fact, and respect for the law and those professors back to where they used to work. I have to mention something else, the situation at that university was also caused by the behavior of the leading people and the university. I mean, at the Belgrade University, wherever there were people from identity, I mean dean colleges and members of the teaching-science council, professors who wouldn't allow themselves to be the subject of politics and to use politics to deal with their colleagues, wherever there were no people who were willing to accept unnecessarily the instructions they received from DOS, the situation remained the way it is, because they were all teachers chosen in the law. Where the deans were unspeakable in the service of DOS authorities the procedure was initiated, so what was going on happened. By the way, I'm not saying this in my head. The names and names of these people are famous. The characteristics they have and it's familiar. Otherwise, it is by every criterion of professional people, who are recognised in areas where they work and with a large number of scientific papers, but it happens too. We think it's a good thing that the amendment, which provides a legal basis for representation at a university-size university conference, means not only the number of teachers and associates, but also the number of colleges. This prevents small universities from having basically the same number of votes as large universities, which is very important. We've had a situation in the past that colleges and universities were founded as anyone wanted and as much as he wanted. We'll see how many will pass the accreditation process, given the criteria that have now been set, but it was a practical situation, which led to a huge number of universities. The objective question is what is the quality of each of them, but what is said not to be the one to judge it, there will be expert opinions, they will give their opinion. So, the government has accepted 7 amendments to the SPS and these amendments are in this case an amendment to the government, but through the content to see that the SPS was the initiator of these amendments and I think it's good for this bill. I'd like to point out here that we believe in the SPS that there is a need to adopt a few more amendments. First of all, I mean an amendment relating to the composition of the National Council for Higher Education. We Socialists believe that a member of the Higher Education Council should also be a representative of Kosovo and Metohija. We think it is not good that the bill, which is in front of MPs in parliament, states that the council structure should be representatives of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina without representatives of Kosovo and Metohija. We think it is quite logical that both representatives of Kosovo and Metohija are members of the National Council, given the fact that the University of Pristina, as well as other scientific and educational institutions in this province, and there is no excuse for the representatives of this university not to be part of the National Council. We also suggested that October exam deadline be introduced for students. This is not by chance, you saw that the government, by its amendment, which I think is good, gave the exams another twice, those mandatory items, and that one plus two, that's three times. Under the bill of law we have, we have four probation periods. For students who finish spring semester, that third deadline in this case does not exist unless we accept this amendment, because then the student is objectively suspended on this one subject. There are several amendments, which we thought needed to improve the position of students, and we met with the minister in a conversation that we had before this assembly debate seriously discussed, pointed to all the arguments and largely came to his understanding. In any case, the SPS believes that this law should be adopted and I say once again that it is a good step towards establishing a European space for higher education. Of course, there are solutions that will show their true value only in practice, but even if something is wrong and it can change. In any case, it seems to me that we in the area of higher education have values to support, and there is also a need for us to be part of the European educational space and to accept the goals that this European educational space sets, so that both our students and teachers may be involved in the educational process, so that we do not lag behind in any part, because we really have what to offer of our values, and we also need to promote our values in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18352	Do any of the other representatives want a word? National MP Donka Banovic, followed by Mr. Gašo Knezevic, a national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18353	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, however different European countries have differed, however much their higher education systems have grown in different national traditions, yet they all share the same or similar problems. The average length of study, for example, gives everyone the same pain. Students stay at universities too long and get too involved in professional life. It has been shown that universities, their critics say, are inert and conservative, and are slowly adapting to faster and faster changes in the modern world. Less and less can respond to the challenges of dizzy technological development, education that they offer is increasingly lagging behind the needs of society, and therefore suffers the whole of society, or the whole social system. The Bologna Declaration is an answer to these, as well as many other problems, because universities, or all higher education institutions, have the responsibility to prepare students for the work world, continuous professional development and awareness-raising, and learning throughout their lives must be provided for those who have missed out on time to school. In June 1999, education ministers of 29 European countries agreed to start the process of reforming their universities. The result, which will last until 2010, should be the convergence system of higher education in Europe, with the preservation of national, cultural and linguistic specificities, which was discussed by MP Obradovic and fully agreed with him. The aim of the reform procedures, which followed the Declaration, sometimes called the Bologna Process, is to create a single European space for higher education. Serbia also concluded in 2001 that it is necessary to engage in integrated processes in Europe and that the Serbian higher education system should be part of a single European area of education and science, and officially signed a declaration in September 2003. The Bologne process has already included in its creation all those countries that wanted to participate in it and to date all European countries have signed the Bologna Declaration, except Belarus. In this way, the European space of higher education becomes a kind of predecessor of united Europe. This is extremely important, especially for countries like ours, which will be waiting for a while to join the EU. So at least one dimension of that union, in many ways most important, is already available to us and depends on us to what extent we use it. Unlike some other declarations, which are signed and which eventually fall into oblivion, the characteristics of the Bologna Declaration are clearly defined procedures for monitoring its implementation, as well as the ultimate objective. It is agreed that every second year, education ministers gather and consider how far away they have gone in reform in certain countries and define the upcoming tasks. Three such meetings have been held so far; in 2001 a meeting was held in Prague, a meeting was held in Berlin in 2003, and a meeting was held in Bergen in 2005. A lot was said about a meeting of ministers held in Bergen this May, where the process of reforming higher education in Serbia was assessed rather badly. This certainly contributed to the fact that we still do not have a new law on higher education, which would allow for a full reform of the system in line with the principles of the Bologna Process. So this law is necessary for us to continue the reform of higher education and for our higher education to be reformed as best as possible, and we hope to get a slightly more positive assessment at the next meeting. The European higher education process does not involve a single system, but a series of objectives and principles on which each country that has joined the process must base its system of higher education. I only mention a few principles: an integrated university, a three-stage system of studies, the establishment of a system for security and quality control of institutions and study programmes, and this by introducing evaluation mechanisms that will ensure a high level of quality of teaching, scientific and artistic work. These are, above all, only evaluations, i.e. internal evaluation, external evaluation and accreditation. The next principle I would like to mention is the introduction of a European credit transfer system as a measure of real burden for students in overcoming a certain study programme, promoting student and teacher mobility, introducing an add-on to a diploma, establishing a qualification recognition system in line with the Lisbon Convention, which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro ratified in 2003, then providing support for the development of vocational studies, which provide skills and skills adapted to market requirements. Also important is the participation of students as equal partners in the educational process, as well as the establishment of links with the European Research Area. In this part of the debate, I will talk a little bit more about these individual principles of the Bologna Declaration because the whole process is slightly mystified, and some say the famous Bologna Declaration, and later in the debate, I will speak in principle of how we have incorporated these principles into our bill. So what's an integrated university? The definition of higher education institutions certainly caused the biggest controversy in drawing up the drafts, foremarks and the proposal for this law. Higher education in Europe only knows the university or academy of vocational studies as an integrated higher education institution, within which there are universities and sections as organisational units in which teaching and scientific research is carried out. Contrary to European practice in our country, universities exist as a relatively weak university association. The university is otherwise disintegrated by the law of 1954, which established universities as independent legal entities. The university thus became only an association of loosely connected high-autonomous universities. In fact, almost every university represents a highly specialized university. This has resulted in various problems in operation, and I will mention only some, unnecessary cost multiplication in many fields, when it comes to teaching, administration, services; then inadequate use of existing equipment at universities, difficulties in organising multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary studies. So, despite the observed shortcomings, some still argue a great deal to preserve the founding state. It is formally expressed through the inability for colleges to be abolished and re-initiated by the university, as it would allegedly end continuity. The most interesting thing is that these remarks come from those colleges that persistently call for their over 100-year-old tradition, and were formally founded 60 years ago. If that formal excuse is rejected, then a question can be asked what really stands in the face of opposition to integration. First of all, during previous years, certain universities have acquired enviable economic power, especially by obtaining significant funding from the scholarship through over-student enrolment. These colleges are normally unable to provide all enrolled students with satisfactory teaching conditions. For example, of course, I will not mention the university, it is not correct, one college in Belgrade has not organised a course for self-financed students for years, and it defends its autonomy with regard to organising and conducting classes. There is no doubt that a serious integrated university would take care of the quality of teaching and prevent such phenomena. A number of reasons are in favour of strengthening an integrated university and creating modern higher education institutions that would suit similar institutions in the world. The unification of the departments of experts dealing with the same scientific district in various universities would undoubtedly lead to an increase in quality standards. You'd lose practice by which one small collective, where all the years know each other and friends, decides for themselves. There would be a reduction in administrative and technical staff in colleges, as these jobs would serve together at university level. With all this in mind in the draft law, the definition of an integrated university has been adopted, leaving a single higher education institution free to decide on its own internal organisation. This approach is primarily motivated by the desire to respect the institution's autonomy, but to pass on responsibility for further development to it. In addition, there is no doubt that all universities in Serbia cannot have the same internal organisation, primarily because of large differences in the number of students and employees. All countries signatories of the Bologna Declaration have pledged to establish national security and quality control systems in higher education. This practically means that internal systems for the establishment and control of quality in the institutions themselves must be established. It is called self-valuation in the law, although expressions and self-evaluation appear. So self-evaluation is a system that is applied to the institution itself, which is conducted by both students and employees. In addition to self-valuation, an external evaluation and quality monitoring system must be established. In addition to self-evaluation, external evaluations, of course, must be well-developed and an accreditation system. I'll talk about it a little bit more later. Therefore, the components of quality assurance are both evaluation and accreditation, however not only of higher education institutions but also of study programmes. Otherwise, evaluation and accreditation were introduced in the 1990s as mandatory high school procedures for all universities in the European Union. And what is self-evaluation or self-evaluation? The evaluation or evaluation is a structured and systematic form of communication between students, teaching and non-teaching staff, with the aim of improving teaching offers and teaching itself. It usually consists of two segments - teacher evaluations and student evaluations. The purpose of student evaluation is to learn how the student values the teaching itself, and the purpose of the teacher's evaluation is that teachers themselves value the organization and the teaching. It shall be carried out from the beginning to the end in a basic organization or unit, categories, departments, departments. The results are used to improve the quality of teaching and administrative work, and reports on the results relevant for the overall educational institution are submitted to the university, i.e. the university. The parent institution shall draw up a self-evaluation report and deliver it to the accreditation committee. I can drink some water. ) Accreditation, it is a certification of study programmes, is a process that determines whether studies carried out by a university institution satisfy minimum, predetermined criteria. It is assigned to an unlimited period of time. So the study programme should be reviewed after a certain time. People from the university are by nature the most interested in their own survival in the education market and it is logical that they will themselves want to install complex evaluation mechanisms into the system of functioning of their universities, quality assurance. Such mechanisms should also provide a continuous and correct self-regulation of university education. Which newspaper introduces this bill into our higher education system, which directly promotes the mobility of students, teachers and non-teachers. During the reforms envisioned by the Bologna Declaration, academic degrees, which so far differed in national higher education systems, will be uniformed. This will achieve full translation of acquired education. The unification of academic degrees throughout the European area achieves the mobility of those who have already acquired a degree, but it is not enough. It is necessary to enable mobility, i.e. mobility of those who are still studying, therefore, students. This means that not only diplomas, but also semesters must be translators. Translation is achieved by introducing a European credit transfer system. The European credit transfer system represents, in fact, the language of communication between higher education institutions. Points are the numerical value between one and 60, which is assigned to objects and courses, in order to describe the student load coefficient for mastering the intended material. The effort that a student should make to successfully master each course should be precisely measurable and conductable in the total number of working hours on the course, in preparation for classes, in writing domestic papers and preparing exams, which can again be translated into a number of points. The optimal number of points during one school year should be 60. What should be pointed out in particular is that the introduction of these points at the same time encourages each institution and reform its own educational programmes, and to achieve greater flexibility in educational work. Now I'm going to explain a little bit of the concept that appears in the law and also in the Bologna Declaration, and that's what it's like to add to a diploma. The addition to the diploma is a document that is attached with a certain degree of the higher education institution for more detailed insight into the level, content, system and rules of study and results achieved during the study of the individual to whom the diploma was issued. The document is being prepared on the basis of a basic model established by the European Commission's Joint Working Group of the Council of Europe and UNESCO. However, it is a flexible tool that can be adapted to local needs. In Serbia, the addition of the diploma has already started to be published at some universities. I can tell you that the University of Novi Sad and some colleges at the University of Belgrade are already issuing an extra degree. The current university law, which was passed in May 2002, opened the possibility of bringing some of the principles of the Bologna Process into line, but did not make the changes binding. Some universities, relying on the law, have adopted new statutes. The new statutes gave a legal framework for the introduction of certain reform elements. However, the current law is not reformable and it is necessary to adopt the bill before us as soon as possible. The Democratic Party of Serbia fully supports the proposal and will certainly vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18354	The word is from MP Gašo Knezevic, authorised representative of DS - Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18355	Dear Assistant Minister, we have been colleagues for many years, the Honorable Chairman, if I had known that Mrs. Donka Banovic was such an advocate of the Bologna Declaration, I would have offered to cooperate with her even earlier, but here's what I've learned. Thank you. And thank you for a well-spent lesson on some concepts, which we've hopefully cleared up in this room. Some people needed to, and some people were a little bored, but that's it. Last night I was in the Assembly almost ten hours and at that time I arrived home, turned on the TV and learned the good news - students of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade received the first prize in an international competition, which was somewhere in America, leaving behind all the other students. I'm using this as an opportunity to congratulate them. I think we could all do that from the assembly pay phone. Now, the problem is that there are few of us that are extraordinary, there are, but few. There are good ones, but few, and between five and seven percent are exceptional and good. They're the ones who would be exceptional or good at any world university. Behind grade ten and nine, which is a mark for exceptional or good, and the lowest marks with us are nothing. There are very few students sharing a seven and eight scale. They don't exist. They're either good or bad with us. What's that? It is a sign that there are people in society who are either good or bad, and that the system, in itself, does not fully succeed in developing those who can more, but because of their unambitiousness or some other own traits, they are condemned to be at the bottom level of the scale. So we do not have or have ever had a serious system solution to this issue, both in primary and secondary education and at higher education level. We tried to exploit a movement that we found out here called the Bologna Movement, which was created between 25 countries in 1999 in Bologna. Why did Bologna come to be? What inspired European ministers or governments to reach Bologna? Very pragmatic: they found that the European pharmaceutical industry, like an industry that has a lot of money, has 80% of its money invested in American universities and only 20% in Europeans. The bell started ringing. So, the science and education system in Europe is bad, we have to change something. They gathered together in 1999 to change something, create a European educational space, etc. How was our destiny? I'm gonna use some history. The year 1838 was the year of the Lyceum. The figure is considered the country's first higher education institution, because the right to enrol in it was completed by second-degree students, therefore, high school. That is why it is considered to be the beginning of education. From 1838 to 1954, our education was relatively consistent with Europe. Don't think it was democratic. It's not. I will not, lest I irritate you, to tell you about the outbursts of legal solutions to our legislation during the so-called time. democratic Serbia between the two world wars, but there were. In 1954, the famous Law on universities, which separates the Yugoslav, then FNRJ, as we were then called, is not important, educational space from the world's educational space. What's causing this kind of behavior? They say there were demonstrations at Belgrade University that year. I don't know, this is unchecked, there's no record of it, but they say someone died and it was a state reaction. The reaction consisted of the following: a single integrated university was to be destroyed because one healthy opponent was destroyed. It was done by giving the legal personality property to colleges and jury accounts. It's a wreck or a wildebeest of the Eth Empire, divide and rule. It is a simple formula used in Serbia in 1954. From 1954 to this year, we have a story about our special education. This special education and education is achieved through the formula: university autonomy, an expression that is unknown in the West. They don't know what a university autonomy is, they know what a university autonomy is, because the only legal being is a university, while the university is an integral part, we've heard, in the form of departments, departments, or in some way, that university. So our specific educational story lasts 51 years. In this story we managed to initially disintegrate the university; to create a state monopoly of higher education, which in itself is not good, because none of the monopolies is good; to increase the university's network to an extent that is difficult to sustain and rich countries, because we have too many colleges; to be late for raising professional staff and by lowering the level of teaching, and constantly, how you go to the present time; to make the study a "sugar water" benefit, with very few obligations of participants in the process, and students and teachers, and about one and the other participants I'm talking about; to get away from science to that extent that our programs are already a little bit old and that, without clear and built criteria, we allow the continuation of suspicious private universities. That's what we did. Of course, I'm only talking about the bad side, because I need it now. Of course there are good teachers and of course there are good students, but these are our achievements in 51 years. If you compare the period of our tradition, and it lasts 167 years, from the first face to 2005, then the period of integration is with us 116 years, disintegration 51 years. Which tradition we're talking about, which tradition, when we have a double-longer period of integration than a disintegration period. I'll tell you, let everyone forgive me, this isn't an attempt to solve something politically, but it's a communist flossula: you don't have a tradition, then you create a two-year tradition and you boast about your tradition. Serbia did not come into existence in 1954 with the university law, it was created in 1838 in a university sense. And that's something to be respected. So tradition is measured from beginning to end and then it's estimated what's ours and what we are. It is true that Europe does not currently know the autonomy of the university. It is true that we, with our countries in which we lived before in the community, shared the same fate. What did they do after the 1990s, or the fall of the earth? Slovenia has completely moved on to university autonomy. So in Slovenia, the university no longer has legal personality and no jury account, i.e. it has some rudimentary form. Croatia failed because they are very similar to us. She didn't make it, she made half the fish, half the girl. New universities, and Dubrovnik has received a new university and another city, so we have two new Croatian universities, have university autonomy and legal face is the only university, colleges are not. All others (Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek) have maintained the status quo, therefore, the solution that is with us: whoever will. Montenegro - an integrated university. Montenegro has gone ahead of us. The others, unfortunately, how--so, they can't exactly boast. So now we're trying to catch a connection to what happened to Europe in 1999... (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? No, I'm gonna hang up. ... To create an integrated university, it's just one part of the problem, and the other part of the problem is quality. I'll break up here, because I'd like to continue later. I'll be allowed another 30 seconds, please. What I'm saying at the end, it seems to me that in this country it is necessary to mature the conditions for something. This law, which is now on the agenda and which is being defended by the representatives of the DSS and G17, as proponents of course, is in 85% of the law, which was then proposed by the government of Zoran Zivkovic in 2003. He didn't even come to this congregation, because the scary lobby was against that text. Now I sincerely hope this law is passed. I sincerely hope so, and by doing so, I'm doing what the DS is going to be like, because that's a step forward. He relies on what was done in 2003, but needed to mature social conditions, to make Serbia a stomach, so that it could create a newspaper, to get us into this current situation. I hope, when we pass this law, that we will have one social consensus, which will never allow us to go back, to change course, but to go along with others. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18356	The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. Is that a replica? As president of the parliamentary group? I'm sorry, I didn't get you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18357	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very serious and important topic for the state of Serbia. Very often when we talk about reform laws in the Assembly, we come into a situation where we debate in such a way as to face tradition and modernity. In this case, I think it is good for all of our universities and universities in the state of Serbia to extract from our tradition and preserve what is good, and there is a lot of it, and to build on these foundations and create the university and higher education in Serbia as it suits us. It is clear that in 1905 the first university law was passed. The king has appointed a board of eight professors who will be tasked with further assigning doctoral appointments to their successors. I think it's very important, because these are the people who came from the Great School and whose names are undeniable and should be mentioned here. Remember, it is Simo Lozanić, Jovan Cvijic, Mihajlo Petrovic-Alas. Remember that the first minister of education was Dositej Obradovic. Remember Honorable Minister Stojan Novakovic, we remember from the scientific fields of large names such as Brana Petronijevic, Slobodan Jovanovic. Imagine if we were to list all these available names now, what it is in us, and what it means and weight it is when we talk about such an important area. Of course, we have to say that the establishment of the university entered the philosophical, legal and technical colleges, which had their earlier status before the founding of the university itself, and that day-to-day at these institutions is very important for these people. After that, the decision was added to medical and theological college. Also, the university as a treasure of freedom of mind should also be mentioned in 1968, 1974, also mentioning democratic processes in Serbia in 1990, because in fact universities in Serbia, above all the University of Belgrade, are and precedes true democratic thoughts in the one-party system here. That's why they need to be recognized, because that's where the ideas started, but the gods and practical protests, and that has no doubt been important for democratic processes in the state of Serbia. We cannot look at all of this separately and from what the processes of the entire state are, which is that we want to be a member of the European Union, which is that we are a signator of the Bologna Declaration, but we should undoubtedly know that in the European Union this process is not going on as fast as we would like, and the question is what the interests of these countries are, because the Bologna Processes, the Bologna Declaration is a broad enough concept that we can accept the basic elements, respecting our best features of our universities and universities. It is clear that the basic idea, the basic postulate of the European Union, is free flow of people, goods, capital and services, and when we talk about free movement at universities, it is clear that we also want our students from our country to be able to get a job in other countries, that they can carry out their studies at other universities in Europe and the world, and that is something that we certainly seek and want to make this law possible and do in the best possible way for the benefit of these young people. It is doubtless that in recent years we have also had a major outflow of professional staff and best students. Someone said the Math High School in Belgrade is like a high school American high school, because most people go there. But we need to create conditions in our country that these young people, the best students who end up here, to provide them with adequate conditions, the minimum to stay at universities and universities in Belgrade, to motivate them to practice everything they know and know in our country. I'll look back at a specific law and say a few words. The law on higher education that lies ahead of us has several fundamental changes in its content and regarding these changes we need to work carefully, to get them practical realizations, but not by significantly disrupting what is best in our universities and universities. How do you do that? So here as the main core, as a body that will deal with the most important issues at universities and universities in Serbia, is the National Council. Since we have experience relating to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational and Educational System, the formation of a National Educational Council, and the duration and problems relating to the constitution and subsequent functioning, that is, the application of the law itself, should certainly be considered here that the application of the law will have its difficulties and should certainly be formed in advance by a team and a team that will go in a proper manner towards the application of the law itself. Within the framework of the National Council, which is Article 10, by the choice of members, 10 members are elected from the order of regular professors, top scientists, or artists, with internationally recognised works or witnessed contributions to national culture, taking into account the representation of educational and scientific, or educational and artistic fields. I mean, and a large number of university professors and the public agree that when something is defined in the law, it has to be more precise and can't be said, in keeping with the account, but it can be said two from each educational and scientific, or educational and artistic field. So, with clarity, we can have insight into the later composition of such a body, which will play the most important role in the application of this law in many matters. What is also important is Article 11, jurisdiction of the National Education Council. It is important, given that the current Law also has certain shortcomings, although this member here in 64 has now been prescribed on conditions for selecting teachers. It is said that the National Council makes recommendations on closer conditions for selecting teachers. Something called a recommendation has not been firmly defined and is not a binding character for universities and universities in Serbia. (President: Excuse me, are you using for the next 10 minutes? I'll beg to continue. I think, therefore, that the level of "recommendation" must be changed to "determining closer conditions for selecting teachers" because you see for yourself what the situation in Serbia is today. We have a situation where private universities are opening up, and it's also going towards the formation of private universities, which will further make it difficult to function the system and control the entire system. So it seems to me that all of this needs to be raised to one firmer basis, with clear indications of what the results will be. As for the Commission in Article 13, because the accreditation committee is very important, it is defined in Article 13, and it is important that the public review is not a secret, because it says here that secrecy is guaranteed and then what is secrecy. Unfortunately for us, secrecy always has some sign of corruption or something that is suspicious, which is behind the scenes, which we don't know who, in what way, under which conditions he gave permission, a license and proper papers for uninterrupted work. It seems to me that in these things the public must exist in this period and that it is known when conditions and criteria are prescribed, that the Commission, the reviewers have made such a decision on meeting the same criteria. It's very important, because I underline, today in Serbia we have the opening of private universities and universities, and it's supposed to happen, but this process has to be controlled to have the quality and level of the educational process that we want in the studies. Of course, it's important for me to point out the fact that in colleges, universities should remain something that is very important, which is scientific and research work. All that we do is good for the educational process, it's good for those practical knowledge that people need to acquire to tomorrow raise both the state and the economy in general. But there's an enviable level of scientific research at universities today and we can't give it up. That's what we have to invest in, and we have to develop it, because that's something, if we look at how I discussed at the beginning and talked about what the university for the state in Serbia and the Serbian national being means, then it's clear that what's best in that period was actually coming out of the university. We have to grow it and keep it that way. It is clear that some of this scientific research work in our country is not cost-effective enough or it will not have a particular practical application, but it must not only be the goal, it must not only be the goal of the job of the man who will finish, that he is practically working in economic activity. We need to maintain to some extent the level of our scientific research work. What is also important to me, which is Article 18; for the sake of co-ordination of work, the establishment of common policy, the achievement of common interests and the pursuit of the tasks laid down by law, a conference of universities is established. And here, in the university public, there was a significant controversy about the election of members of that university conference. It seems to me that we have a significant number of people who point out the importance of adding a formula that the number of members choose and based on the number of students at universities in Serbia. I think that formula can be found. We do not have exactly the proposed amendment, except for one amendment that I have seen to 5,000 students, which is a question of whether it is a flexible enough formula, looking at universities in Serbia, because this formula significantly raises the University of Belgrade, but certainly until the end of the principle debate we can come together to the formula and put it together, because today, according to the new Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the amendment, or the committee in charge, can propose an amendment to a certain member of the law, and we can come together and calculate it together. It's very important to mention the following. The system of points is introduced by this law, and that is one of the uncontested ways that we see in many universities in Europe and the world. This system of points enables students, and we do all this hopefully because of students, that they can in a more flexible way have a clean overview of how they will complete their studies, and that makes it somewhat easier for them to travel through study. But what's very important is that this law allows higher schools to become high-level vocational schools, so three-year high-school schools, and today we have colleges of four-year and five-year-olds. Now, the points system, it seems to me, is such that our, let's say, example of a college that has five years of study gives something that would look like a master's degree, but it's not clear in the law itself, in the concept of law, what's going to happen with four-year studies. The Minister graduated from Philology College, he's a four-year-old, I've completed mathematics that's four years old, I'm interested in the status of those colleges in this transitional period. Is this going to be a formula 3+1+1 or 4+1, or is specialization going to be added to these four years of basic studies, to have a strong master degree that is personal to the German model? We do have an acceptable German model, because that graduate engineer's diploma in Germany has a status that we want a graduate engineer to have here. That's the point and that's the basic story. So for us as far as the study is concerned, it's a close German model, because that's how he distinguishes two types of diplomas. Can't graduate from three-year vocational higher education studies be the same with a degree in high school studies, which now have four-year or five-year schooling. That's very important. What, of course, creates problems for higher schools to grow into higher vocational schools is also a lack of staff, a lack of proper conditions, but they will face the conditions in this law. As regards the law itself as a whole, it is according to the guidelines of the Bologna Declaration, it is at a certain percentage and based on the law that was proposed earlier, but we must know quite clearly in the course of the debate, I expect that the Committee on Education will meet, that both the Government and the Minister clearly and the Education Committee say which amendments have been accepted. We now have the situation that certain amendments to this law have been adopted orally by the government, but I expect final realization, that the Education Committee and the Minister of Confirmation that the amendments have entered the component, so that we have clear visions of what final law we adopt. This is very important for both the congregation majority and all the MPs. What is important and what I want to say in the end is that we all need to worry about the future of the state, about the future of higher education, because these are our important foundations. We should take care of the students, too. I'll tell you one thing, which is that on proposal G17 plus and Minister of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set up a Youth Fund. Of course we should encourage young people, good students, who should contribute to further development of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18358	The word has been made by MP Mileta Poscurica, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18359	Ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything about the law, I would like to congratulate, as well as the speaker in front of me, the success of our young students, our future staff, who has achieved such a visible success by defeating the smooth Americans in a difficult scientific discipline of what kind of electrotechnics are without being undermined by the principles of the Bologna Declaration without their university being subject to his high school. A college of high tradition, a good education, a college where there are both such and such professors, where it is possible to work for less or more money for exams and anything else that is wrong, and what this law did not foresee to solve, apart from declarative and ethical norms. So there are other weaknesses, but I'm going to start talking about the most important ones, the ones you called reformist, Mr. Minister. Of course, you are in some sense right, in relation to the law we had before and in relation to Mrs Turaylic's mysterious desire and need to implement her law in front of this House. You did her that favor. She failed to do so in either the previous set, or the government of Zoran Djindjic, or later Zivkovic, and here she now managed to pull through her idea, she and those who wrote it with her. How motivated, why motivated, I guess it's very clear to everyone. If that were not so clear, you would not try to make amendments, which you may accept, that NGOs and others do not interfere with the different bodies you form, although this great gratitude in Mrs Turajlic's concept is being expressed – but there is no point, I will not mention the name anymore, is not there – just about the work of NGOs to try to change something in the education system. This isn't small, this isn't irrelevant, this isn't an IMF warrant, this is just a need for some kind of declaration, not a warrant, not an emergency, not planes, not a NATO pact. Try and do something for mobility, for the sake of equating the academic average, but we respect the differences that are in the systems of the educational permits and diversity that every nation cherishes in itself. So we propose, offer, harmonize, and not even, copy, copy, and above all offer no specific models, and you don't bring us out what specific models are like, even though you're already informed over the amendments, as far as I can see, and you're accepting amendments in the process, so now we don't know what's accepted in the concrete proposal, whether I'm going to talk about something that you've decided to accept, so let me miss the written assignment, his theme, maybe I will, maybe I won't. But it is fate when, after so many of your meetings of working, so many gathered deans, rectors, prodects and free shooters who came to you to praise the concept, then many others, whose papers you, lawyers' associations, law school conferences, their departments, their larger, including the Belgrade Law Faculty, decided to oppose this idea, primarily because of the aspect in which their university, legal colleges are placed in a position of losing their right to legal footing and putting into an important relationship under the institution of the university. It will not, of course, be clear to us, who are against this concept of reform, to the end what the universities have so far lost, what colleges have had certain independence. If there were to be more control over colleges, there were other mechanisms. If you had to look at the content of the teaching programs or what you're calling study programs now, there were ways to check it out, because it's all through the institutions of the university. So we started with one mechanism, we MPs had three versions, and I made unnecessary efforts to read all three of them, to underline, to learn and read so that I could just keep it in my head, to underline the same proposal three times. It's not fair, it's not fair. Nothing's changed. I don't know when and where the changes you're talking about happened, what you agreed to when hours offered the form that was offered before and what the roots were since 2001. You also said there's no Bologna Declaration, you should think of it and work on it. So if one declaration, somewhere in the United States of Western civilizations, has another educational system and we really do not dispute the right for Europe to edit its academic space. What would it look like, why would we affect it? The arrangement of their academic educational space, members of the Bologna Declaration want to create some priorities, preferences, thinking that this will enable them to be more competitive, market-open, for someone else to come to study and achieve their regulation of movement within the states themselves of that community, these signatories of the declaration. Our government agreed to this, the university also signed the procedure in 2003 and you set out to implement this process. We believe, even though you were on your way, with the unquestionably right to ask for it and to demand it, you should have taken care of something that you said, which is a national interest. In no single article, in any single sentence, we have been able to find, thoroughly analyse and write amendments and on the bad sides of the law, what national interest you defended when you wrote such a law and what was defined as a national interest when accessing reform of something very important. If you want to or you don't think it's important to put it on, see, for example, Article 3 or 4 of the Croatian Law or look at the Lomonos site, and see how the Russian government is behind the Lomonos programme of studies at the medical, chemical and other colleges where I was looking. Look and see that they also adopted some elements of the Bologna Declaration, but there studies last six years for medicine, for chemistry for five years. Their full time is 11 years for medical clinical studies, to become primary studies, to complete the master's degree and doctorate. It's all obviously twice as short with us. How can this be compared or I suppose the student of the Lomonos Medical Academy is not valid enough, no one will accept it, so that in 11 years he becomes a doctor of science, and with us, the magistrate and the doctor will become six years from now according to your proposal, how long the basic studies have lasted. All the speakers pointed out the weakness of current systems of study and lack of awareness and responsibility of students, not working well together with students and teachers, was this relationship, this relationship. No solution you offer here will ever improve the relationship of students or professors will actually be the same, almost one-way reception, which we disagree with and do not advocate such an authoritarian relationship, where the professor will only talk, the student will just listen. There is even correlation and interaction in kindergarten. However, by not introducing a mentoring system or a different way of fundamental audit, we will stay again, we would not, on that. Do we, by the concept you're predicting, actually go quite differently than any of our own personal concepts, based on what you said, we're going to be able to ensure that teachers have insight into students and achieve these famous points during their exercises, lectures, when you know what human policy is like in colleges? Somewhere very important, even two-semed, holds one, rarely two professors. We often have problems when a student lays down for the second or third time that he has to call a professor on the side. We don't have any extra frames and surpluses everywhere. But it's just those practical details that make that exactly what you've said probably says that you don't have enough experience. And here are the professors who are university professors for a very long time and it would be useful, and you would probably listen to their advice of that kind, if that university work, experience, here's your assistant who has a very great experience, it's a respected professor at law school, so you could see how real life is going on in college and what it is in the autonomy of the university that now bothers to continue such work, to get to college, because he's the only concrete performer of the process. I may be from the province city, but I haven't met a student from multidisciplinary studies. How nice that sounds. I don't know what it is. Here, colleague Emilia may know, so she'll tell you, and you can replicate to me how many there are in Kragujevac in multidisciplinary studies. I don't know how you're going to sign them, or what it's going to be, but anyway, in order to have a greater number of students studying multidisciplinary studies, we're giving the university the right to complete autonomy over colleges. Well, Mrs. Donka has defined this -- the university is one loose community of colleges, which now stands, implies other than space, usually bulky, usually great and great, like everything, where college representatives sit and make common decisions for all colleges that the university covers. And now there's your teaching content, there's your calling choices, there's your master's and doctor's thesis, etc. And what was that little university that needed to be given the opportunity of legal and financial supremacy over college. How to tell a college with a great tradition, which with a few of those founded by the father of the university, is impossible, but that's how it turns out, now he's going to go back to it as a stepdad. So, just about that segment of an idea that in the Bologna Declaration is not as underlining and so prominently explicit as the need to discuss what is so-called. the transmission point system. Speaking of this and this need of yours, which has been particularly demonstrated through a degree of urgency, because the law is an emergency procedure, be careful, so I guess the one from 2002 was in an emergency procedure, and it's a bad law, and this is an even worse solution. Fortunately, this proposal of yours does not have what the 141st member of that law, whose idea creator here has explained, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, where you have indeed seen the dragon measures of the threat of calling audit, etc. Some kind of Batic lustration, which did not pass where he intended it, and almost went a long way and entangled a number of political inexperiences and people who thought differently, who came to regular calls by law. Well, if there's anything I can say about this, that's it. We continue, representatives of the SRS, think we should increase student responsibility. They shouldn't be lazy, they shouldn't wait for a large number of tests to be tested as a condition to transfer them, but we don't see how I'm going to go to that second segment of the story, and that's the system of value points, teaching content and value of the subject. This concept that she really gave in one or two sentences, and I read a few versions of the Bologna Declaration and I wish someone had given me something more integral, but on your site, so Mostar's website, then Montenegro, then left, right, Russia, I found mostly similar texts. Maybe there's one, but let's see her where she's a little bit more like it. It would really be fair for the signatories of the Bologna Declaration and their chief of staff, as it is called, I wasn't, and you're going from the Ministry and I don't know what you're talking about, whether you're just nodding and signing or asking them, why they didn't give you some particular model, say, like an impact factor. Now, this is what it's going to look like to apply the credit system to the most common professions, to the most common academic education and vocational education programs, for the most common interests in the world. This should have so many points - engineer; these objects and these objects, we see what we agree on. Because I'm afraid one numerical quantification, the number of points, we translate, we put an analogue relationship with quality. We have to qualify. You can see for yourself that in law, you have given the possibility that when someone is nostrificing or making equivalence, whether they will work or continue their studies, they must see the teaching content. He's not worth 50 points and he's moving on. What's in those 50 points? If I don't say nebulose, that's true, we see from the bill of this law that the student has to and can choose basic electoral items, that he can even sign up with 37 points minimum and that because he's self-financed, and the same college, the same content can write down who's budget-funded with 60 points. What if we continue every year that he uses his rights we get, a student who will never get 60 points. It's not defined by law, and it may be clear, but here you go and explain it, but at least write it down to make it clear to everyone. Either it's gonna be in one year, and it's going to be 37, so it's going to have to make up for the next year, or no one living knows what it is, and then he's going to be an ego to a doctor who's written, say, 60 points. So, there's a lot of misunderstanding. We're wondering why those of you who convinced you that our system was wrong didn't at least give you an operational model. You know that everything is standardized, from the production of food, juice, cars, and we are for it. Who says we wouldn't respect standards in Europe? Everyone would. But let them be clearer and not mean destroying what we have in our field, our own self-loathing, our national interests. What national interest? There's no sentence about it, no matter how much in the concept from which the law is made, it writes paradoxically, what we're going to do with students who have studied, so we studied for years and passed half the exams, and they don't get any more paper. So what do you want? Do you want to give the semi-factories this proposal? What kind of paper? Let them go to Europe, so let them work. We need someone to finish our studies. Who knows what he's done for. He'll have a call and he'll be able to do it. Or -- says in that proposal, we have a lot of educated people, taking a lot of good places. They're influential and esteemed. I'm paraphrasing a little. Don't mind, but this looks a lot like it and we have such an educated character and what it does around the world is proof that we did well, but at the same time it's proof that our colleges suck, because they've adapted their programs and they've burdened them with a huge and extensive teaching content that someone would only be teaching on the master's degree, so we need to reform this education system, to reduce the level of burden on basic studies, and what those talented learned during the basics, that we've moved it for the master's, they would only when they're masters learn it. Look, that's not how it says it. It's written, so it's about time, so it seems more clear, but I'm deliberately trying to make our public hear that I'm talking about whose ideas are embedded in this law, what way of thinking has led you when you've given such an opportunity to, say, give a system of integrated studies, to allow, for example. A master's degree after a year, to allow basic studies to be reduced to only four years. Amazingly, who's going to take medicine with six, who's going to end badly now, and hard to go and sloppyly, end up in four. How are you going to include two-semedral, three-semedral items in less than 60 points, or just one year a student will only learn one item. How old does it take for medicine? Three years, three cases. It's just, if you chop them up, rip them up, you won't get any of it, they're integrated in learning, not because someone wants them because they're big, because they need integrated knowledge from it. You can't study abdominal surgery, arm surgery, head surgery and so on. So we will have a lot of practical consequences because if we apply these concepts that you stand for and which are crucial to what makes this legal project bad and the reason why we will be against it. The regulatory body you gave there, the National Council as a massive bureaucratic body, we have some analogy in the National Educational Council. We've started the amendment with this, and to be honest, it's possible that we can also be asked to transfer the jurisdiction of the National Educational Councils, but perhaps even the question of the transfer of jurisdiction from this law would not be indecisive, because there's anything here that can be transferred, sold to the NIS in five minutes. That's not the problem. The lawyers would settle it, but we wanted to point out that we have a competent body that exists, in the order of academics and people who finally have a higher education as a consequence of their education. Almost everyone sitting on the council, 42 as many as there are, has a higher education. It's the Academy of Science, it's the Orthodox Church and other religious communities. Why wouldn't that part of the strategic problem deal with what you've given in jurisdiction - to the National Council? That was an idea, because that idea you're proposing costs 14, 15 million just to establish. She would further form and pay well from the budget, so she would make her commission. The Commission would make its working bodies so-called. expert teams or reviewers. So that's one magic galatias, where someone always works for someone, and one body sits and collects good money and gives strategic goals. They're not seen on your site of your strategy. I saw a vision mission. And you explain what that means. If this is your strategy and what was most important in the principles and guidelines of your government is found in the evening of passing a law that fundamentally destroys a system, which is nowhere and nothing at all, I don't really know where he showed the need to be ruined. The question is, what is motive, what do we want when we put under the hat of the university all colleges? Better college control? If you're looking at the management system, what's the rector got to control the dean? No, not at all. One chooses a bigger one, the other chooses a bigger one by election. It doesn't make sense. They have subordination, but there's no control. Better financial control? Maybe it makes some sense. You're suggesting there'll be less money. It's clear in the reasoning of the law, he does it several times, because I see the Deans need to become managers, so they collect money, not deal with the quality and organisation of teaching. It'll be less for this, less for that. It might be easier for the minister now, because the dean is going to say, "Here, it came from Belgrade so much money, now that we're dividing into you 10-15, who can do well." Universitys with a small number of universities and private universities, and Belgrade University, with 30 universities, and we have six-six, if I'm not mistaken, six state, six private universities. Privates have two, three or four universities in their composition, and state, like Belgrade, as many as 30. Since he will be given what he wants, and he will be on a spoon, I expect him to distribute it nicely, and everyone will be satisfied, that everyone will be motivated to organize studies and that, as they say here, "modern programs" etc. We are in favour of the programs being, in the most rigorous way, that the teaching content is monitored, or the study programs, that the minors from year to year must have a lecture that has made the innovation, that never be said in the same way, the same synopsis that it is not. I couldn't agree more. He has to try to improve his student's responsibility. You've extended one of the students' rights to the amendments. I don't know how many deadlines we're talking about. What you agreed with them I don't know, but one of the solutions is the student's appeal for the exam - 36 hours. What if he's laying down this afternoon? Mass of college exams running at night at nine, ten o'clock. Who does he complain to when he expires in 36 hours? So there are many reasons why we are assessing that application, the application of this law in practice will create a series of vague situations and a series of problems, will not be useful for the citizens, nor for the students themselves, especially for the institutions most affected by this. Of course, we will be against such a proposal because it violates the traditional education system, which is a very important segment in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18360	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, DS-Boris Tadic, G17 plus, SPS and SDP. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18361	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable Mr. Minister, unlike some previous speakers who spoke from this pay phone during today's debate and who, of course, are my fellow Members, who are professors of the university and better acquaintances of this matter on the agenda today, I am not a man of education, nor am I professional enough to talk about the details of the proposed law, but I would like to point to another dimension. Reforming our education system, including higher education, is as long as it takes and, hopefully, you will agree with me, reforming every part of our social and economic life. There is no doubt that the education of our state of Serbia is going down. The best evidence for this is the fact that students are running away from school and students are studying for eight and nine years, without any interest in getting to the school's school as soon as possible. Of course, the opportunities we have, where they'll go when they graduate from college, don't make them do much to finish school as soon as possible. The problem is, therefore, much broader, but we cannot sit with our hands cut, but as we are trying to find the best solutions in the economy and economy, and in this spirit world, Serbia must rise. In addition to approaching widely accepted norms and European standards, which are most often protected and better defined by academic knowledge, we introduce a new system of degrees in schooling, create conditions for the free intellectual movement of professors and students, but also require more serious study. We cannot today, when it comes to the system of our education, including higher education, keep one of us MPs from the SDP, the most important topic, is ethics. Who are our teachers and teachers today? From elementary school and college, you'll agree with me, we all remember most of the time, and we remember those witty and charming lecturers, who, through theory, paint their lives with fine examples and metaphors. We remember and remember those well-intentioned lecturers, from whom human warmth and goodness radiate. But unfortunately, we remember also thoseharrogant, premeditated, unfavorable, who knew that they were advocating or dictated a few book definitions, but who left no deeper clue in us, except for the bad feeling of the moment that we remembered them. It is a public secret, unfortunately, that today in Serbia exams can be bought and that they are not just persuasion of students, it is true and so unfortunately seems our society today. Some professors and the University of Belgrade are being prosecuted for taking bribes, but they remain behind the professor's department. The government even appointed them to its special committees and commissions. I know about the presumption of innocence in the judiciary, but I wonder how long it'll take the court case, since we know what our courts are up-to-date and how effective they are, to determine whether these professors are guilty or not. I believe, unfortunately, that this will take a few years, five or six, and there will be some more changes in government, and there will be good connections, and, as our people usually say, things will lie down. So our society, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has suffered from bribery and corruption, and in those professions where we couldn't even dream: doctors and teachers. The truth is, these professions have been subjected to injustice and degradation, which can be measured in some way, and some kind of crime. Imagine the importance of the profession of a man who opens up a human organism and saves him from a terrible torment. What can be measured by that? But we do not need to neglect the spirit. Teachers in primary, secondary schools and colleges can play with human souls in a good and bad way. That, unfortunately, we all know that well. They can be interesting, full of love, even children, and the way they are with us, and because of us, they'll feel it. Just like in American movies. If we create good people, we'll have good deeds later, and that's the way of humanism that we are now and here somewhere, it seems to me that we've gone a little astray or we've lost it. To return, at the very end, to the proposed law itself. SDP MPs tried to improve it a little in the process, when the election of members of the National Council gave us a good solution the government accepted. However, the government has taken over some of our amendments as its own, but it does not prevent (because it is normal) from accepting our amendments, because they were submitted 20 days before the government took them as its own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18362	One brief announcement. The 18th session of the Education Committee, which will discuss amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, is scheduled for today, Tuesday, 23 August 2005, starting at 1800 hours. The sequel will be held at the Blue Salon on the ground floor. I am taking the opportunity to inform the MPs that there will be no further work today. We all know that some will enjoy 1800 hours. Of the messengers reported, the first one has the word Milisav Petronijevic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Mašić. Apart from the NS parliamentary group and the independent MPs, everyone else has reported MPs for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SPS parliamentary group, by the proposal of the Law on Higher Education, was laid out by Dr Zarko Obradovic and I will not take your time by repeating those views. What I'm saying is that I'm going to stick to the principle of going through this law for a few concrete solutions, which we're asking for further clarification, all in order to pass as high education as possible. I think that education is a work of the widest national importance and that of pre-school, primary, secondary to higher education. In each country, it must be important to have well-organised, quality, materialised education and integrated into Europe, as well as one that preserves the cultural, linguistic and national specificities of its country and nation. It should not depend on who is in power, nor should it change how power changes. We think that this law on higher education is a reformal one, because the content and process of study makes it more effective than it is so far, increases the responsibility of teachers and students in the process of education, creates an opportunity for more objective evaluation of the work of students, for greater and better quality teacher engagement in the course, sets out conditions for the establishment and operation of higher education institutions, which will uncontestably increase the quality of these institutions and the knowledge of those who learn in those institutions. I repeat, Dr. Zarko Obradovic made a precise point about it. I will go through the provisions of this law in principle. First, I think it's a little bit of a distraction that there are no reports that the amendments have been adopted, because the government has adopted a very large number of amendments this time and I am grateful, it's just a proposal, it's not adopted, very many amendments that change significantly what the bill says. Let's say, if the bill and the principles of higher education were discussed, there is no text in this text, but there is in the amendment that students are allowed not only to manage, but also to decide on higher education. It's a quality. Also, there is no, and there is in the amendment, equality of all higher education institutions, regardless of property and founding rights. And that is the quality, with this country having to take care of it because it will have a great period to ensure equality of quality of higher education in all these institutions. These higher education institutions need and need to ensure competition from which quality will arise, not to be higher education institutions where diplomas will be the easiest way to get. That can't be the goal of this country. When it comes to ensuring the quality of higher education, I think it's a significant issue in this bill. The bill shows that the leading role in the process of ensuring the quality of higher education has the National Council for Education, as a high-level body. So, the body facing great tasks, for the simple reason why the whole law, or the law, has more goals, where there is a tough job and a great battle of the coming years to carry it out, because it will take a lot of time for the institutions to adapt to all of this, for teachers to adjust to spend more time with students, for each to pay attention and for students to adapt to have to study regularly and so on. When it comes to the National Council for Higher Education, we are looking for another clarification. There's no Mr. Minister, he's out, but let me point out. I'm not looking for him for me, because he's got a custom, so he says, "I gave it to you on the MP's group." An explanation must be given to the public. When it comes to the composition of the National Council for Higher Education, we believe that an explanation should at least be provided, and we think that places should be found, because if students are accepted as a partner in higher education, and that part of the formation of that body provides for a student conference, we think if they are given the right to decide, rather than just manage, which is spoken in the principles of higher education, if they are given the right to decide in the bodies of higher education institutions, we think that there is room for them to be given the right to participate in the decision-making of the National Council on issues which are relevant to them. Of course, we mean it's a high-profile body. But, too, I mean, we have a lot of students in doctoral studies, very high-quality students, who can participate in it. That's the question, and I'm asking that one more time to clear it up. One warning, although the intervention in Article 110 was later carried out, must be well studied so that it does not happen to us as with the National Educational Council to pass the law, we determine how it is elected, and then it is a year before we choose the National Educational Council, because it was not until the end of the technology of choice. I also warn of another issue of the accreditation commission, which in this whole story gets a big place and where the Commission's membership will be the biggest fight. So, given what all the credentials of the credentials committee are. The next question that I think needs to be discussed again is the question of higher education institutions and that, as far as I'm concerned, from two angles. First, of course it's planned and given here, it promotes the concept of an integrated university, and it's kind of like a process, I don't mind, but if it's all seen enough, is it not an overemphasizing role in terms of colleges? Whether or not all the information given to the university is such that some can be passed on to colleges and vice versa, and I'll give you an example. Have the colleges been trained enough to make a choice with all the teacher's appointments, of course, with a certain co-ordinated function of the university. On the other hand, they are given the right to college students, or their authorities to decide for themselves on the level of tuition, and we have one practice that one college has 40,000, another 70,000, and another 100,000. Isn't that a question that should be found in the university's department in terms of determining some criteria, clear, how and how it can be done when it comes to tuition. It is good that the government accepted the amendment when branches outside the headquarters of higher education institutions are established. We don't suffer from whether it's our amendment or Vladin, we're interested in that solution. This means that departments can be established, but in the accreditation process, like all other higher education institutions. This is why we had one invasion of the establishment of a department in Serbia by the rooms of home council, evening school, etc. Something that can only actually degrade higher education. I think this way that departments can be established, but in the accreditation process, it prevents the process that was going on. When it comes to funding, I want to say that the government has to take care if it comes up with a bill that aims at the law, that it will have to create material conditions to implement it, because without it, without material conditions for higher education institutions, without improving the material position of teaching staff, without the possibility of students of all to study in the cheapest possible way, all of this will not be enforceable. We here support the government's commitment to increasingly aphirmics, i.e. that the most affirmative concept of free education, as much as they are able to be state, but we also insist on that part of self-financing that self-financing at state universities cannot be exactly the same as self-financing at BK University and some other universities, that there must also be criteria to how, to which height and how. The next issue is the rights and obligations of employees in higher education institutions. I think that part's well done. We have cautioned and once again warned, respecting and respecting a huge number of teachers who do not refer to it, this law had the task of preventing a number of teachers who acted as commercial travelers, who walked from university to university in Serbia. We suggested that you get in the way of it. The professor must spend all his time, first of all, with his students, in his institution, to ensure regularity and teaching, and presence and direct work with students. The government intervened here in two ways. We'll back both of you. One is that because of conflict of interest, those professors who teach at state higher education institutions cannot also teach in private. Others, through an increase in the number of professors from 60% to 70%, who must be in full-time employment in a higher education facility. We know that these criteria are very high, but if we don't set them such high goals, we won't make any special progress. So we'll keep looking for a solution that will provide what I'm talking about. Before the end, something about students. We welcomed the formation of student conferences, student parliament, participation of students in management and decision-making. We ask them to find places in the National Council for Higher Education, and we think that the correct relationship here is also foreseen for students, starting with enrolment that gives the best chances that regardless of material opportunities can be entered free of charge, through the fact that those who sign up as self-financing can if they regularly end up going to budgetary funding. It's all some of the things we support. What we've been insisting on, what we have for now, is government support, and I expect it to be verified tonight on the Education Committee, which is to adjust the number of deadlines for exams according to all of that. The government accepted that the student could pass twice more, when this mathematically calculated missing one test deadline, so whoever finishes the second semester of the summer in June can pass in June or September, but there is no third. So we suggested that it be an October deadline. Of course, we have in mind that the law allows a student to gain a very large percentage of these points during school. The intensity is that during the school year, and the smaller one to win the exams, and probably some day that number of test deadlines will decrease, but I think at this point this is a good solution. What we also warn once again, we think it's very important for students to have the right to sign up, have the right to study cheaply, get a quality lecture and meet all the obligations they have. Once again, I warn that order must be put in place when it comes to self-financing, i.e. when it comes to setting the cost of tuition. Finally, I think that in the transitional and final provisions, fair solutions were given for both teaching staff and students, and for higher education institutions, and time periods when all this should be adjusted. I especially point out two things. One thing is that it was intervened in the way the first National Council was elected, that if those who make up the National Educational Council did not deliver their proposals, that the Assembly could choose them from the order of these structures, but on a proposal from the competent committee, which was missing. I think it makes it possible for us not to get into a situation where we've been choosing the National Educational Council for a year. What we also welcome is that Serbia's personality relative to Europe, no matter how well known universities are in Europe, and not colleges, which is that it was intervened in Article 118 that universities that existed until the day of law-making remain the property of a legal person, unless they transfer it to the university themselves. All of this when it comes to terms, I want to say that the government has accepted our seven amendments. We have the government's word for four more. That's what I'm saying, I want to point out, given the beginning of my presentation. I think the government here has made it clear she's not vain, she's simply looking for better solutions. It is the first step that should ensure consensus when it comes to education as a significant national and state action.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18364	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Masic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silai.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18365	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS on this bill has been made by Dr. Poscurica, and he has made most of our principled remarks here. In my discussion, I will try to point out certain more concrete failures in the proposed text of the law that we will discuss in the coming days. First, I want to say that I respect absolutely the fact and the need to bring all our legal regulations into line with the regulations of the European Economic Community and that such a legal regulation that regulates a significant area, which is high education, should be in line with the developed world. But if the signing of the Bologna Convention is an obligation to synchronise and comply with these legal regulations by 2010, then I really don't see why this law has not yet been met, especially in relation to certain shortcomings identified by almost all parliamentary groups and the fact that there are close to 200 amendments submitted. So, it's been a long time working on this concept, and there's still been some and significant failures made, and for me there's also a significant failure, and that's why I think maybe we should wait a little longer and bring this law together with the law on scientific research. Because there is no development and progress of the educational process unless we have better quality scientific research work, especially as funding research in higher education institutions goes through the Ministry of Science. So, the Ministry of Science provides funds and finance concrete projects and finance these teachers and co-workers in colleges. This is how the concept offered, which I am convinced will be brought, will create significant discrimination and cohesion between the existing law on scientific research and the University Law. According to the Law on Scientific Research, when project competitions are discussed, they are listed from scientific titles to certain scientific fields that are being financed or, as defined now, scientific fields, and according to this, funds are being determined, and by groups are reported researchers from the lowest to the highest scientific titles, precisely to apply to certain scientific fields. However, in this draft law, we have some scientific fields that are very important at the Ministry of Science, let's say the area of biotechnology, we have absolutely no such field defined here and I wonder, and I'll talk about that later, how such a failure was made that such a significant area for our country was not defined as an educational process. So, the government should have the obligation to commit the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Education to work together on the concept and to comply with the rules common to regulate the field of research and education. I think it's a serious failure where we, in front of the SRS, can object to the minister and the ministry, and to the government. The next thing I want to point out is the National Council, which is planned by this law to form. Personally, I have nothing against the bodies that should have certain competences, to improve the educational process, and especially higher education. I'm afraid as it's conceptually suggested, it doesn't give a guarantee if it's planned to base that council on being those ten regular professors, top scientists. I don't know who's going to be the one to define which ten top scientists are, if, say, left out here at the Academy of Science. In all countries, we count that top or highest scientific and research workers are proven in science and academic education, regular members of the Academy of Sciences. This law gives absolutely no possibility for the Academy of Science to delegate its representatives to such a body and to have a function in solving and deciding the jurisdiction of such a council. You have defined here that it must be a top scientific worker and that it has internationally recognised works; so the conditions and criteria for selecting a regular professor are to recognise scientific research papers published in leading international journals with reviews, published scientific research papers at international scientific meetings, and that is understood. So, basically, any regular professor can compete or, if he can't, I wonder who's going to be the one to determine and tell who's top-notch. I'm afraid it will be here as in many other advices or bodies that are proposed, that it will have the influence of politics again and that in this council, as in some other councils, there will be people above all, here now regular professors who belong to certain political options, although it is decidently said here that they cannot be delegated to people who are partyly engaged. But we have a lot of teachers in the parties, but they're not party employees. Normally, they will represent the interests of these parties at certain times. Therefore, it is not easy to rule out such a thing and ultimately when elected in parliament again is elected by the majority of the ruling coalition, and yet the advantage in the choice of people in this council will be given to people from certain political options that are ruling. I think that here should have been more clearly defined as being done, which categorizing these people's choices and ways, and I think there should have been an absolute place here for representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, that they too have a share in the work of this council. Furthermore, I want to say that the National Council, as defined, as far as its jurisdiction is concerned, has some that belong to it, and I think that here they are given some jurisdiction to the National Council, which the Ministry should essentially have, that what as a state body should have certain uncut things. He can't stand for someone else to lead and decide. Here they are defined, in some 15 items, the jurisdiction of the council and, according to my free court and assessment, some of the powers that the Ministry should first and foremost belong to. Furthermore, I want to say something about educational and artistic fields defined in Article 27. Here some five fields are defined, natural-mathematic sciences, socio-humanist, medical sciences, technical and technological arts. I've already mentioned that biotechnology or biotechnology has been abandoned, which have been defined as such by the Ministry of Science. In the field of biotechnical science, the largest number of projects in the field of technological development is. So the largest number of projects is from that area. In that area are all agricultural colleges, forestry colleges, veterinary colleges. Yesterday on the board, I asked the question of where these colleges would settle, in which field of education. It's kind of easy to say -- it'll be decided by the National Council. Please, it can't be determined by the National Council, because after law school, after economic colleges, our country has the highest number of agricultural colleges. Finally, we are an agrarian state and it is a very significant study, and certainly not negligible nor forestry, and finally veterinary as an area or veterinary study. For them, I don't know, at least I can't tell where they're going to be, in which of these educational fields you put. I'm sorry I didn't personally intervene with the amendment and I wonder if the representatives of the agricultural colleges had been involved in this, that no one intervened and said that it was defined differently, because I can't imagine that the agricultural college would be in technical and technological sciences, so along with engineering, electrical engineering, construction, etc. Come on with the technology and God help; or the wind to be with medicine. At the very least, it can, because in some countries there are such solutions and it's kind of acceptable, but forestry and agriculture, I don't think they have a defined educational and scientific field here. Furthermore, I want to say about the types and levels of studies defined in Article 25, and that was last night on the Committee of Discussions, and the questions, and the search for answers. However, in my view, some things are not well defined, especially by disclosure, i.e. by the government's submission of amendments to this law. So, the government has made amendments to its amendments to this proposal for a law on higher education that we MPs have received. As a rule, what the Government changes to the amendments is accepted and it is an automatic integral part of this bill. If such a proposal is adopted, these amendments will certainly be adopted. There's a significant, precisely in the type of level of study that changes some, in my opinion, maybe essential things. I may be a little bit more subjective, but last night I was looking for an explanation about it, first of all, about master's academic studies. By adopting this law, we won't have a master's degree in science, at least the way we've had them so far, and I think 30 years, if not more, are schooled in master's science. So these are people who focus on scientific research, and that's some kind of initial step. And then, with most of them, doctoral dissertation and further development in scientific research. Here, in fact, I think these academic master studies are being abolished and graduate academic studies are being introduced, which basically have logic as proposed. However, whether the abolition of these master studies, education or preparation for scientific research will significantly impair our scientific rejuvenation. In my opinion, he's pretty crippled now, because over the past six or seven years, there's been a collapse of this scientific rejuvenation at most of the university, primarily due to a lack of funds. The assistants of trainees and assistants are not accepted, and as it is imagined to be just about co-workers in the teaching and assistants, and thus not having more of these master studies and calling the master of science, I think that we will come into an even worse situation, because by choosing co-workers to continue for a year, it is precisely those who will attend these graduate academic studies or assistants who will be in doctoral studies, that does not guarantee that they will be people who will remain working on those colleges, but I am afraid that they will be more passing through and how they will then select them. Since I'm limited in time, I only want to point out certain illogicalities shown in the transitional and final provisions. For example, for a science doctor in one member, in Article 128, it is said that the period of seven years is for those who have mastered doctorate, and in Article 123 is given five years to those who are in doctoral studies. The one who's in doctoral studies should have more time because he needs to take the exams and do the dissertation, and the one who's mastered should do the dissertation. I think there's some things mixed up. I want to end this because of my party colleagues, to give them opportunities to speak too -- I think there's a lot of inadequacy in this bill, although I've been preparing for a long time. That's why I think it might have been better and more instructed that this time the government and the Ministry of Education withdrew this proposal and did it the right way and brought it together with the Ministry of Science, and that they had made a new law on research work and adopted this law together. I think that would be much more important for the educational process, especially for higher education, and for scientific research in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18366	Thank you, Mr. Machine. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, or in the spirit of this law, Mr Milka Silaev, and let the People's Messenger Milan Vesenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18367	Dear Mr. President, Madam of the Ministry, dear fellow MPs, after this exhaustive and beautiful presentation of Mrs. Donka, Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Gačević, I really had to re-expose my presentation. I want to give another aspect to this story of mine at the pay phone. Our schooling has been a constant potential for bad students, starting with primary school, we've always cared about bad students. We were worried about elementary school, high school, colleges, and that was a big mistake. It's absolutely a big thing that the intellectual potentials of a country are being nurtured. Something like this will make this law possible. Why and how? By networking in the European university network, we allow the top, best students to choose courses, those they want to hear in London, Paris, Berlin, and also from London to hear our experts in Serbia. You know that in the 1950s, German experts in atomic physics were with us at the Vinca Institute, because then Yugoslavia was at this theoretical level of development. Such an exchange allows the creation of a top group of experts who can lead the country to a better tomorrow, can make a small number of people feel the country rebirth. We are witnesses to such cases in Europe. Look at Nokia, what she did to a small country in Lithuania, what India did to its experts in computer technology. Indija's IT experts are top experts in the world, most paid, do not go into the world but bring money to India and increase national income. So, the perspective of this kind of networking is really good and the potential of smart people in the country will do good to this country, and the G17 plus is working on taking care of the scholarships of top students, top experts, and that plan we wanted to potential. There were a lot of words about the need for college accreditation, to form a system of education for students. According to new solutions, the leading role in policy-making and quality-setting will be given to the National Council, which will be formed as such a body that absolutely has an intellectual priority over those people who need to be controlled and formed from the ranks of prominent scientists. I don't mind the "outstanding scientist" thing, because we need to make a point in this society of what's super good. It will absolutely be a condition for Serbia's progress. The National Council should set up a Commission for Accreditatives and Quality Checks of Work. We now have nothing colleges like mushrooms after the rain. That's not good. It's a quantity, and the quantity needs to come up with a quality. This will be an opportunity to really make quality. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: the very opposite.) It will be. We can't stop this process with some decree. There'll be a way to make a selection. I absolutely have no doubt about the tendency and purpose of this law to do such a thing. The diplomas students will receive are consistent with the European system. Our education system so far has been like this, something between Germany and some of our modifications. A German graduate engineer had the status of our master of syens, and our master of syens in addition to five years of studying, let's say in technicals, I was able to get to know this system of education, he had to work for master of syens for another two years after graduation, and after three years of study and two later became master of syens. What is characteristic of Europe, which they also criticise their education. According to some analysis, the best, most efficient education has England, unlike the Germans who were trombones in it and failed to adapt their education to the Europeans. I look forward to the fact that some positive energy has prevailed here that this law is necessary and that it will most likely be adopted, and the G17 plus, along with all of you, joins this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18368	Thank you, Mrs. Silaev. The word is made by MP Milan Veselinović, and let MP Dragoljub Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a system law that is very important, which is interested in our public, a law that hundreds of thousands of young people will have to abide in the future, normally if it goes through congregation procedure. But the problem is that this legislative project, as well as many previous ones, has been written by part of the DOS that is in power, as well as that part of DOS that is in opposition, along with the assistance of Europe, or someone from Europe. Or they prescribe some laws from countries that are in transition and that are approaching the membership of the European Union. That's how this law was written, prescribed, namely it came and was sent before 2003, back in 2002. It was sent to the former DOS, and normally it had to be made and framed by a law that would correspond to the part of Europe, i.e. the signing of 2003 of the Bologna Declaration. It is no wonder that last night on the Education Committee, many of the questions asked by the members of the Committee, as well as university professors, the gentlemen of the Ministry of Education did not know that the answers were accurate and correct, so this law brings a lot of confusion, a lot of ambiguity, from the very way of studying, from the very way of organising studies, regular studies, and then we have the first degree, the second degree and calling the third degree, to that way of transferring the European system of fighting. We know that diversity exists in all countries in universities and universities, including ours, and that it is difficult to bring this European system of transfer of points and points in one country from college to university, even related colleges, let alone in the territory of the European Union. But those who sign those declarations, which sign on European demands, do not seem to think about the consequences that our generations and future will face, but simply because they are being pushed through. That's why this law, in general, when it was made, is not at the centre of the student, but at the center of its adherence to the Bologna Declaration. It's the center of this whole law. So you can see that not only does colleges lose their autonomy and autonomy here, but it simply wants the university's association to be a centralized power over all of higher education. The university's association is a charm and the question is how firm it is, but it's probably the law that wants to be hardened now, because it's going to have a monopoly not only on the accreditation of study programmes, but also on finance. That's why we Serbian radicals have big objections to this law. We've shown it in our amendments, and I'm going to stick to some remarks that are of serious character and that had to be avoided. But in time, I won't be able to say everything I imagined. First of all, what we do not accept is the establishment of a National Council for Higher Education. You know that only a few months ago did we choose the National Educational Council, and then none of you thought of it, wanted to remember, that we could have this national educational advice to make a commitment to him to accept ingenuity and over higher education. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying for two reasons. The first reason is scientific character, and the second is financial character. In fact, on that national-enlightenment council that we have chosen here, normally with the objections of the SRS, because we believe that these national and educational advices are the components of the government and the government of Serbia, meaning with our remarks, you have managed to choose most of the national educational council and already, when we have it and it is financed from the budget, it has its own commissions and bodies, couldn't it also take the authority to lead and create a high education policy. This is also possible because the national and educational council of 42 people includes all the structures of our society, meaning the institutions and institutions, starting with SANU, and through university professors, university professors, higher schools, secondary, basic, religious communities, national minorities and business representatives normally. So we simply have all the representatives who could do this job much better than this national council on higher education, which you will form and thus create another bureaucratic apparatus, which will serve the normal government of Serbia and centralise things in higher education, and normally this majority of them. The rest of the DOS. We refer to a particular remark to a part of your law that reduces the volume of studies. There are great misunderstandings. For example, technical colleges have been studied for five years, medically six years, and now it is reduced to three and four years. There are many concerns about specialization, or master studies, doctoral dissertation and the calling of doctors of science. That's what confuses many students, including parents. Normally, it will take a long time for universities and universities themselves to manage during this reorganisation. Another important observation is that colleges can, on the basis of their general acts, their advice, prescribe tuition. That's what confirms that the student is not at the heart of this law. It simply had to be borne in mind that when paying tuition, even at related universities, there are great differences and colors. That has to be avoided. This was to be agreed at university or university level, so that at least that tuition would be even. In the end, I want to say that the SRS will not accept this kind of legal project that you've done, a legal project that goes to harm, first of all, our young generations, and in general, the whole of our society. We've done everything we can to try to correct our amendments and improve part of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18370	The People's MP Dragoljub Zivkovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18371	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the new law on higher education is being carried out in the shadow of an important process which has moved far away in Europe, and is known as the Bologna Process. It began with the signing of the Bologna Declaration, which obliged signatories countries to achieve goals that were estimated to be of primary importance for establishing a single European higher education space. These objectives are: firstly, the acceptance of a system of easily recognizable and comparable academic degrees and the introduction of a diploma, so-called "Students". the completion or addition of a diploma; acceptance of a system based on two main cycles, undergraduate and postgraduate; thirdly, the introduction of a credit system, i.e. ECTS, i.e. the SPB system, as an appropriate means of promoting the fastest exchange of students; promotion of mobility by overcoming obstacles to free movement; promotion of European cooperation in quality assurance and promotion of the necessary European dimension in higher education, in particular in the development of teaching programmes, training and research. A new law on higher education should create conditions for achieving the objectives listed, as well as targets that are in line with our development needs, which are quality, rationality and efficiency. The new law should allow the creation of a legal framework for the achievement of the strategy for higher education development and the achievement of professional and scientific preconditions to ensure the country's development. This law should ensure an increase in the quality and efficiency of higher education, as well as a rise in the educational level of the nation. The DS believes Serbia cannot become internationally competitive unless it is suitable, i.e. a much higher educational level of its population and if its economy does not have creative experts with contemporary knowledge. This is a prerequisite for its civilizational step into modern society, which is based on knowledge and in which higher education is a primary factor of development, because it leads to the creation of the human resources necessary for the development of an innovative society, which is its general and particularly economic development, based on knowledge and the ability to use it to create a competitive product or service. The DS believes Serbia must become internationally competitive not only in the investment sense, but also in certain specific products and services, in which it should install its creativity and innovation. Serbia cannot produce massively and cheaply because it is small, but it can offer products and services based on original ideas and its own knowledge, intended for certain target customer groups. The prerequisite for this is the intensive development of education, especially high, as well as the development of a stimulating environment for research, technological development and transfer of knowledge and investment in production, infrastructure and service capacities, as well as in the development of original and innovative products in areas where Serbia can achieve its comparative advantage. A new law on higher education should provide a legal framework for a comprehensive reform of higher education, in order to create conditions for achieving the following objectives. First, our system of higher education should be integrated as soon as possible and fully into the European space of higher education, which is defined in the above mentioned Bolonjski, Praška, Berlin and Bergen documents. This requires special attention to all standards defined under this process, including control and quality assurance. Secondly, in addition to revitalising and modernising the existing ones, Serbia needs to significantly improve both in a qualitative and quantitative sense the network of higher education institutions, as Serbia needs a significant increase in the population with a higher education degree. In this regard, Serbia must significantly increase investment in higher education, so that it is at the level of highly developed countries of Europe, at least expressed in percentages of gross social product. This should be an investment in Serbia's future, in a knowledge-based society. Third, our universities should be open to the public, the social community and users of educational services. Universitys do not exist for themselves, but for students and employers who should rightly be in a position to influence the quality of staff to be employed. Also, the university must help society solve its problems and cannot and must not isolate itself. Fourthly, higher education in Serbia must meet international quality standards, develop creative thinking, analytical skills and practical use of acquired knowledge among students. In addition to accreditation and evaluation, it is also necessary to encourage competition among higher education institutions, as it will force them to offer as high-quality educational services as possible. Fifthly, all necessary measures should be taken in the organisation and study regime, in order to significantly increase study efficiency, which is now inadmissiblely low, unfortunately, for a long time. The sixth, parallel to the expansion of a network of higher education institutions, needs to be reformed and rationalised in order to monitor society's needs. Seven, as in other areas, only in the conditions of harsh competition can a high level of quality, study efficiency and rationality be achieved in the use of available resources from higher education institutions. Eight, the level of investment by the state in higher education should be increased by ensuring that European standards of higher education are met and that further qualitative and quantitative development is needed. In the absence of state resources, it is necessary to encourage the investment of private resources for the purpose of establishing and working new higher education institutions. Nine, there's no quality higher education without scientific work at the university. The scientific and teaching process must be integrated, especially in doctoral studies, which should be developed to be the bearers of scientific work at the university. Tenthly, under the conditions of rapid scientific and technological development of knowledge, knowledge is rapidly out of date. It is necessary to encourage the development of all forms of education throughout citizens' lives, thus enabling them to be qualified, requalified, specialised and extended their knowledge, and in line with their needs throughout their lives. The question arises, would the application of the proposed higher education law contribute to achieving the objectives set? The DS Parliament Club believes that, despite much of the time and energy spent, the assembly debate and the debate on the Committee on Education would not be another option to correct the proposed text, and the DS parliamentary group did and will make efforts to do so. What are the biggest objections to the proposed law on higher education? First, we believe that the law does not define the system, criteria and standards of funding state-run higher education institutions and reflects the current system and practice. We believe that the funding system must be more elaborate, that it must provide conditions for normal work and respect the development needs of higher education institutions, especially universities. The material position of the state university is difficult, there are small salaries, there is no money for the material costs of business. There's no newspaper in the bill on funding. It all depends on the government's decision, i.e. The law does not oblige the government to provide at least a certain minimum of funding to ensure a better material position for state higher education institutions. It is obvious, therefore, that the bill does not make any changes in relation to the financing of state higher education institutions. We can conclude that the application of the proposed law does not provide for the improvement of the material position of higher education organisations. As regards the provision of quality of higher education, Articles 9 to 23 in Chapter 2 of the proposed law are such that we believe that there is an indetermination of normability and standards of work of higher education institutions. The bill provides for the National Council to propose to the Government the normative and labour standards of higher education institutions, as well as standards and procedures for accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes. To be clear, we also believe that too much freedom and rights has been given to the National Council, as well as to the Accreditation Commission, which proposes standards and accreditation procedure to the National Council, which brings a large amount of uncertainty, because at this point we cannot even know what rules the higher education institutions will do. So, for important things, such as the establishment of higher education institutions, the law needs, at least that's what we think, to determine the exact majority of conditions in order to eliminate arbitration of decision-making. Thirdly, conditions for the establishment of new higher education institutions have been difficult, which limits competition, because, in our opinion, it is difficult to establish initial conditions. The founders of private schools and schools have been destabilised because they are required by a vaguely formulated bank guarantee for the security of students in the event of a high school institution's termination. It can be very high, and that few founders can meet, unless they have their own bank, as some founders. Also, it is difficult for private founders to accept that they have only one-six representatives in the council of their institutions, as the bill envisions, with the council choosing the dean, determining the amount of tuition and making the most important business decisions. As far as I'm concerned, I advocate the treatment of higher education as a public asset of particular interest and the principle of a higher education institution as a non-profit organisation. That is why I support those ideas, otherwise present in our public, which advocate the introduction of the foundation concept as the only one, besides the state, the authorized founder of the university or the higher education institution. This could be the first step as in the long-term editing of this important matter and the first step in ending the now ruling orderly behavior. The foundation as the founder of a higher education institution should also ensure that profits, if possible, are made in a higher education institution, quality teaching, research and entrepreneurial activities, can only be spent within the institution. So there's no profit out of it, but profit has to go back to higher education institutions and only there can be spent. Finally, the foundations could enable the formation of mixed capital, made up of state funds, local authorities' funds, industrial assets and private capital. Fourthly, the proposed law on the higher education of certain provisions of the Western European legislation takes over, in my opinion, uncritically, not respecting our experience and the real circumstances in which our society is located. This applies primarily to the provisions of the laws concerning the status of co-workers in the course, it is a member of 71st and postgraduate studies that are drastically shortened. In doing so, material preconditions and economic environment represent very restrictive factors, unfortunately. To clarify, co-workers are expected to advance quickly through their now graduate studies, because it was previously the level of master's studies, so in the bill of law, but I have in mind the government's amendment, achieving the observed results, leaving them little time and providing little resources. According to the proposed solution, all the time the graduate studies were conducted by classmates, i.e. Auditory and laboratory exercises, management of project tasks, if they are held in basic academic or basic vocational studies, shall draw up and review tasks, shall attend exams, coloquives, hold consultations. The research work is related to the chronic lack of funds and adequate laboratory equipment that is necessary to achieve the relevant results. This observation concerns post-graduate studies or doctoral studies. That is why I have proposed an amendment to Article 71, which provides that the contract on the work of higher education organisations for the recruitment of associates in the course of first-degree studies is to be concluded on a period of not one but two years, with the possibility of extending the contract for another year. The fifth remark, the bill introduces four regular test deadlines, January, April, June and September, and a student who has one outstanding exam from the study programme enrolled year has the right to pass the exam within the subsequent test period until the beginning of the next school year. I believe, and the DS Parliament Club believes that strengthening the study regime and reducing the ability to pass exams in the coming year is a positive element of the proposed law which will contribute to increasing the efficiency and quality of study. At the same time, I think the student should use all the regular test deadlines without restrictions, but as the government and the Ministry came out to meet the proposals that were made that the student could double fail the exam, which means he's using three test deadlines and still this October, if it were the last exam, I gave up my amendment. I think that following this amendment to the government that was accepted, where there were several proposals from different parliamentary groups, the area is now arranged, and that is my opinion. Sixth, the way teachers choose is practically not changing. It is not intended for scientific work to be assessed in a unique manner at the level of the Republic. Motivation and the need to work more intensively in science, therefore, would increase significantly if the scientific work of the candidates for teaching was evaluated according to a special procedure. One of the shortcomings is that the conditions and obligations of higher education institutions have not been defined in relation to the organisation of doctoral studies. There is no definition of the position of doctoral students who would continue to attend college for study and research. It's not defined who pays their tuition, scholarships, anything like that. The DS Parliament Club considers that, following the amendment of the Government to Article 29 of the proposed law, certain inaccuracies have been introduced, but we hope that the Committee on Education and Inaccuracy will be removed and will be brought into order. Finally, DS MPs, respecting the need to pass a new law on higher education despite the shortcomings contained in the bill, support this law in principle. Our statement of the law in general will depend on the relationship of the assembly majority to our amendments, which we have submitted in good faith and with a sincere desire to correct the proposed text, the conscious responsibility that the National Assembly has for improving our system of higher education and Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18372	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dr Nikola Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18373	Ladies and gentlemen, after the brilliant presentation of representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, Professor Poscurica, I will also pay attention to a few specific issues, or to several places that I find problematic in this law, with the intention of reaching a better text than the one offered by the government. The first problem is the problem of the National Council for Higher Education, i.e. the issue of the formation of this body, which according to this proposal has the task and competence to regulate many issues in the area of higher education. The position of the SRS parliamentary group is that this should have been passed on to the National Educational Council established by the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, because we believe that this body is qualified to carry out these tasks as well, since there we have 15 or perhaps more members of the Serbian Academy and Science or are professors of the University there. It is more than a total of members of this National High Education Council. We also have a small dose of doubt in the way and procedure of selecting members of the National Council, if adopted, and apparently the will of the majority is that it will be, because we have one experience that is bad with the National Educational Council, where the choice of that body lasted almost a year. If you adopt in this form, then you should make sure that the deadlines provided for by law are also respected and that the procedure is respected, although many questions, now I do not have time to go into details, here they are not fully defined and should be specified, so that this goes in line with the idea and intention of the promoter. Under the draft law of the members of this national council, I will talk a little bit about it, given that the majority's will to keep it as envisaged, is proposed by the University Conference and the Academy of Professional Studies Conferences. In the same way, members of the accreditation commission are also proposed, and they are proposed, unlike the previous one, only the University Conference. I don't understand why the promoter is disciplining higher education institutions. Why are no other higher education institutions foreseen, that they also participate in this proposal and why the law does not provide for the establishment of conferences and other higher education institutions. In fact, the Law imposes an obligation on the establishment of the University Conference and the Academy of Professional Studies Conferences, but nowhere in the law mentions the establishment of conferences of other higher education institutions, higher schools and higher schools of vocational studies. They are equal, or they are also higher education institutions provided for by this law. I also don't understand why people who are members of political parties are being prevented from being in these bodies. Regardless of their political commitment, there are many qualified professionals in our political parties who can competently participate in the work of these bodies. Speaking of the Accreditation Commission, the bill provides for the Commission's work to be financed from the fees that the commission will receive for accreditation. The fee is prescribed by the Council and I ask the question whether this fee, given that this commission has a larger number of members, that there are also some working bodies, will be sufficient for the regular financing of this commission, since the obligation of higher schools, or higher education institutions, to have accreditation carried out once every five years. Either the amount of compensation will be relatively high, or I think it will be too high, that many institutions will not be able to finance that fee. The next thing I want to pay attention to is the volume of studies, which is prescribed by Article 29 of this bill, where basic academic studies have 180 to 240 points, i.e. to last from 3 to 4 years, if the minimum for these studies is 60 points in one year. I do not understand why the promoter is going to degrade some of the study programs that we have under the current law today, whose duration will be reduced, or shortened by a year or two. I don't know if this is the way we're gonna keep the quality of the studies we've had so far. Article 31 provides for the transfer of these points between different study programmes, but I do not understand why this is intended to be carried out by agreement between different higher education institutions. So if a student wants to move from one programme to another, he has to wait for the two institutions he wants to make the transition to sign such an agreement. If there is no such agreement, the student cannot move on to any other studies he would like to move on to. I think that this issue should be regulated in some other way, that it regulates this National Council for Higher Education, that it is not left at the will of certain institutions that they themselves determine whether to sign an agreement with another institution or not. I think this prevents some freedom of movement of students through different study programs. Higher education institutions, Article 32; the fundamental intensity of this law is, in fact, what Mr. Knezevic was saying, that the university has autonomy, and that colleges have had that autonomy that they have so far lost in favour of the university. However, this law has left colleges with the possibility of being legal entities. A university that has three study programs has the possibility to have its own jury account and to operate as a separate legal person, so I don't know if it's deviating from that basic idea or not. Also, the next thing is Article 52, composition of the Council. Last night, Mr Rankic warned on the Committee that this article was not precise enough and I only ask that this be improved, to avoid any possible confusion and problems in practice, to pay attention to this member and, possibly, by some amendments, to correct this in practice and to implement it without any problems. Furthermore, the rules of study, Article 87; last night I asked the Committee a question and I ask the question again. A self-financed student has to attend a course in cases that make up a minimum of 37 points. Please, a student who studies for 4 years, self-financed, will achieve a total of 148 points on this proposal. It's less than a minimum number of points, whether for professional, or academic studies. I didn't hear the answer last night. I'd like to hear it at least today. Furthermore, what may be the point of my presentation is the rules of study, i.e. the number of test deadlines and some of the rights of students who are due to pass all the items that are mandatory, and the ones that are electoral, in order to achieve the minimum of 60 points if students are on the budget. The promoter predicted here four regular exams and predicted that the student would pass the exam immediately after the lecture, and that after that he could only use one more test period for the same subject. The amendments were intervened, several parliamentary groups, so the motioner accepted another test deadline in October and accepted that the student had the right once again, or for the third time to pass the same case. The justification for this is that the aim of the law and the state is to increase the efficiency of study, i.e. to have better quality studies, i.e. lower average number of studies, and I agree with that. However, I think that the approach is wrong and I personally advocate leaving students with the opportunity to pass exams in all five deadlines, if this is five test deadlines, and on the other hand, in Article 94, where student status is mentioned, a change is made. If you want to shorten studies, i.e. to increase study efficiency, why do you leave student status to last two deadlines, i.e. two lengths of the duration of the study programme. So if the study program is four years old, you're letting the student have student status for eight years, you're allowing it, and on the other hand you're denying the right to pass exams more than two or three times over the course of one year. Students are mature individuals, leave them the opportunity to use all five deadlines as they know and know, they will be able to do so very quickly, so they will schedule their time and obligations, and on the other hand, if the tendency for all exams to be one-monthly, half of these exams will be in the second semester, in the summer semester, so they will have much less time at their disposal, only three deadlines will be available. The students themselves will schedule their time so that they can clear the year, because under this law there is no passing of exams anymore, which I accept in terms of increasing efficiency, but this part of the law and this other part of the status of students is not correct, Article 94 should be changed, and in the previous article which speaks about the number of test deadlines also changes, that the student has all five deadlines in one year, and that the status of students does not last twice as long as the duration of schooling, but that it takes 50% longer than that, in order to shorten the average time of study. Another sentence about the student's objection to the grade. It was left for 36 hours to object, which is a short period of time, but whether the exam is re-examinationded in front of the professor, the same individual, or the commission. I think it's necessary to pass the exam before the committee, if the student's objection is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18374	The word of the messenger of the people is of Prof. Dr. Nikola Milosevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18375	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, it seems that at last all the parliamentary groups in this assembly have agreed to something, because according to the number of members present, no parliamentary group is particularly interested in discussing this proposal. I'm not sure that's exactly the kind of national consensus we need most, but what's there. Now let me say something about the subject itself. I have no intention of questioning the bill in general, but it is my desire to draw your attention to the two serious weaknesses that this proposal has, which so far, to my great surprise, no one has spoken a single word. The first such serious weakness concerns the conditions for obtaining teaching titles. The title of a professor of vocational studies is foreseen and the one who acquires that title is equal to that teacher who has the calling of a regular professor, so the article 65 says "a person chosen to call a professor of vocational studies and a regular teacher gets a calling and a basic working relationship for indefinite time". However, in Article 64, a professor of professional studies is said to be elected a person who has "the scientific name of a doctor of science, or a doctor of art". In calling a regular professor, a person can be elected, which, in addition to the conditions set out in Title 6 – these are the following conditions: several scientific papers of importance for the development of science in a narrow scientific, artistic field published in international or leading domestic journals, with reviews, original professional achievement, etc. – there are also a number of scientific papers that affect the development of scientific thought in a narrow area published in international or leading domestic review magazines. In addition, more scientific papers, international and domestic scientific conferences. So it's a perfectly logical and natural question, how can I be evened into the rights of a professor of professional studies, who is only required to have a doctoral title, and a regular professor who is wanted by all of these conditions that I read here. Not only that, let me read you what you're looking for to call a doctor. In addition to the conditions set out in Article 3, it is a doctor of science, which is also a condition for a professor of vocational studies, the doctor must have scientific, or professional papers published in scientific journals or chambers, with reviews. More than that is required to call an extraordinary professor, I'm not going to read it to you so I don't abuse your precious time, but I'm asking. And I don't think it's too much of a question, how a professor of professional studies, who's less wanted than even a doctor, can be equal to who's in the ranks of a regular professor. The same question can be asked when it comes to the one who has the calling of a lecturer. "In calling lecturers can be selected a person who has the academic title of master and professional title of specialist." According to the subsequent correction in the amendment, it won't be called a magistrate, but for the very thing, it doesn't matter now. Now, you see, Article 72, an assistant is required to be a doctoral student, which is not required for a lecturer, where the lecturer has the right to lecture, and the assistant has no right to do so. Secondly, calling a doctor can be selected a person who has both scientific and professional papers, which is not required for the lecturer. Even a lecturer isn't asked to have a doctor's title. Now I ask, how is it possible that the composers of this text, i.e. The proposal, which certainly cannot challenge the ability of a league opinion and cannot be challenged by some elemental legal calling, as it is possible to allow itself to have such a very serious weakness in this proposal. I only have one explanation in such cases, i.e. one methodological recommendation, which is very effective here. In such cases, you must step outside the circle of the so-called circle. Immense analysis and to look for some interest, who has clouded the ability of logical reasoning and respect for legal norms in this case. It's not hard to guess what that's about. It's the interest of those who establish private universities and universities. So that there are no misunderstandings and that is not to be understood as my pledoies against the private initiative, I may be the last person who is against it, but the very essence of the private initiative, that is her spirit, implies equality in the competition in any entrepreneurial field. Any monopoly, any privilege, I abolished the spirit of private initiative and actually turned it into its opposite. I understand the need for those who establish private universities and universities to get to the so-called so-called easy and fast way. People who will meet their teaching needs, but I can't possibly understand that the proposal of one of these laws meets one of these, exclusively "private", so one tendency that is not privatization but privatisation, because in this way teaching cannot be improved, can only be reversed. The aim of the competition in any entrepreneurship area, therefore also in this educational area, is to improve business in the area rather than reverse. I will be free to draw your attention to another, as I think, no less serious weakness of this proposal. This is Article 23, under the heading "Ministership", where number 4 is said to be "issues permission for the work of higher education institutions". I have no objection, it is. If the ministry of one government, one country which is a republic, or state, in the meaning of which the word Republic is used, then this right belongs to the Ministry. By the way, in that number four, there is no question of the explicitness of this provision. So, there's nowhere to be found by the way, an unfortunate note that leads to doubt about the explicitness of this right. But that's the trouble now, too. Article 108, under the heading "Consultation of the A.P. Vojvodina", reads: "In the territory of the A.P. Duke's tasks set out in Article 23. paragraph 1 point 4) is carried out through his authorities of the A.P. Vojvodina". If there are any misunderstandings again, I don't want to discuss whether the province of Vojvodina should become a republic or not - personally I have my own opinion, I don't think so, but it's not the subject of debate. The subject of the debate must be something else. If, according to the current constitution, Vojvodina is an autonomous province and is not a republic, then it cannot be given the authority of any law which falls within the jurisdiction of the Republic. Please, let's vote, let's decide that the province becomes a republic, there's no problem in keeping this member here, why not. However, if the existing Constitution does not provide for this, then the existing Constitution is in question in this way, and that should not be the case. Regardless of all this, it is not sustainable, from a logical and legal point of view, to have two members who exclude each other in the same text of the same proposal. You can't give one hand what you're going to take away from another hand in the same text. So, you said the Ministry has the exclusive right to grant such permits, means that the province can't have it. But if you say that the province can have that right, neither is it logical, nor is it legally sustainable. Mr. Minister was in a position to hear my objections at the DSS Parliament Club meeting. Otherwise, it was my only chance to talk about it. I can only rely on a saying by Arthur Shopenhower. Shopenhower says it's like healing water with a debate, says it works after a while. However, this famous philosopher may have made a mistake and may not be like the healing waters, so they do not work after a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18376	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, and let Mr. Svetislav Krstic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18377	It is not a replica, but I am pleased that Mr Milosevic has noticed the devastating functioning of your restrictive Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has, in consequence, an almost empty hall when talking about a very important law here, or a proposal for a law on higher education. Given the remarks Mr Milosevic made, I must say that it is a fact that very few SRS MPs today in the O.R., but that is because all of our MPs are in the MPs' club, where they are watching a direct transfer of the trial from The Hague, where our president, Mr. Seselj, testifys as a witness to the defence in the case of Slobodan Milosevic. You will allow, regardless of the importance of this job here, after the fact that we haven't been able to hear our president for two months, or to know what's going on with him, our MPs have decided on that part of the job. As for the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, the minister told us here, a man boasted that this legal text was formed within three months after various consultations with various relevant people and institutions. In addition, he said he did not address the MPs but addressed the public - ministers, then you should not deceive the public of Serbia. It's not true, and you know it's not true, that this legal text has been established in three months and it's not true that you have consulted all relevant factors. You do not have the consent of the Faculty of Law in Nis, or the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, or the Conference of the Law School of Serbia. You know all this well, because you have received written remarks from all these institutions, as have been given to all the parliamentary groups in this House. We who are seriously doing this job and who are seriously in politics know and remember that this text of the law was to be offered to the National Assembly in 2001, but Minister Vuksanovic and Zoran Djindjic did not dare go out with such a law before the MPs. We all remember, during 2001, we read the high-spirited statements of the then minister, Mr. Gaše Knezevic, that the law was not passed, it did not come into force, but it is being applied. That's what Gašo Knezevic used at a time when he forced Professor Vojislav Seselj out of law school because we were also able to read, he did his homework -- him or me. So, even then, it was illegal and unconstitutional to apply what you're doing today, and you have no reason to wonder, that your handiwork, that you did it on such short notice. We also know that this law has repeatedly been proposed to parliament and has repeatedly been withdrawn from the procedure, that it has always been the subject of some kind of deal and blackmail. And you, Minister, must tell the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, because you said, and it is okay to address the public of Serbia as well, to explain one of these walks of the bill between the government and the National Assembly. From Nemanja Street, where the government building is, to King Milan, where the building of this parliament, compared to the government's proposal, appeared 12 new members of the text of the law. You have to tell us. Ma'am, I'm talking about what I know is true. I know what it said in those articles. I know which members they are. I know who dared, but I'm asking the minister here to say who added 12 members of the law between the government building and the parliament building. Who signaled you, before it was divided into the MPs, to better return it to the government and delete those 12 members. What you could have done in three days, because it took so long. It is your duty and I demand that you explain it to the MPs. As far as this bill is concerned, you have heard the really relevant opinions of university professors from the SRS, but each of us, who have read this law, is clear that the bill is intended for private universities, private universities, which get completely free hands, while social colleges are fully bound by this proposal. Since we have little time for our parliamentary group, as much as we need to talk about this proposal, we have submitted a large number of amendments and we will talk about the amendments in particular, but I would like to ask you another question from the Minister. Do you know Soros is building a university in the Caves? That completely against the law, a sect from Novi Sad, located in Novi Sad, bought 13 hectares of land from the local community of Pecinci, which cannot dispose of the land. If you don't know that, then you can't be a minister. You have to resign. If you know that, and you keep your mouth shut and you approve, then you have to go to jail. You have to tell us what's going on with this future University in the Caves, which is built on the mornings and pastures, and the mornings and pastures have been returned to villages for use and the law on which they were returned since 1993 is forbidden any construction on those floors except for the construction of ponds. I hope the university isn't a pond. Unfortunately, in the principle debate, we've distributed so much time in the parliamentary group that I can't speak anymore, but you'll hear a lot in the discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18378	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a folk MP, Svetislav Krstic, and if I understand correctly then Mr. Penezic and Mrs. Momirov will agree on the order, but that is after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18379	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, although he is my predecessor. Mr Petronijevic, pointed out, however, I will say that the SPS will support this legislative project, although we have had a lot of objections and have shown them in terms of more than 30 amendments, one of which is a significant part and accepted. This made us realize that the ministry, or government, made a real effort to make maximum respect for the competent suggestions of the MPs, which was not always the case. When it comes to this legislative project, it is good that it is clearly trying to make one right buckle with European trends in the area of higher education. It is certainly good and there is one danger, namely that by trying to integrate yourself into some trends, European and global, you may lose what is good in the locale, or what is good in us and in our current education system. No matter how often we feel that what we own is not as good as the neighbours or Europe, which has been very current lately, I can personally say that our education system has managed to give good experts, regardless of what we heard at some meetings and on the Committee on Education that some have reservations about it. In any case, it is necessary to preserve what is good and to upgrade what is a trend in the world. However, the fact that we have made in the previous period, even in that socialist, Titon period, I don't know what to call it, various attempts at reforming education, and that these reforms have mostly come back on our heads, as they say, it's always a danger when something changes that they can come up with an injection of counterproductive consequences. In this case, I don't have that fear. I think things are quite well balanced, that it has been taken care of to preserve what is quality in the current higher education system and to integrate all this with the European higher education system, although I must say that, knowing the education systems of large European countries, such as Germany, England, France, etc., I am very skeptical that they will accept honestly and to the end of the Bologna Convention. I think the Bologna Convention is meant for these younger European countries, in which we belong, and smaller ones, and that we must also make sure that we do not exaggerate in this process of fitting into the Bologna Convention. So we shouldn't be hasty to show that we're more Catholics than the Roman Pope, but in any case, I welcome that part and we'll vote in that sense for this law. In addition to those remarks that we have managed to make in the form of amendments, I have here a remark that, due to the busyness of the previous legislative project, I have failed to express in the form of amendments, so I would now take advantage of the opportunity, since there is a minister and his associate, who is obviously in charge of higher education, to say that in Article 27 when it comes to education in scientific and artistic fields, it is said that there is a natural and mathematical science, socio-humanist sciences, medical sciences, technical and technology sciences, and art, and my opinion is that there would have to be places for something that I would call computer-informatic sciences. Because they can't be taken for granted, and if you want, the Assembly isn't the place for a professional discussion in that part, but they can't be swept under technical and technological and neither by socio-humanistic, but they can't be mathematical. You know, information in its application can be part of art. You can use your computer, as you know, to do things that have nothing to do with math or any particular technique. So maybe that's the one thing you should be counting on. And one of the remarks that has been heard in the presentation of former colleagues, which I really want to highlight, although I may not say anything new, refers to this rush, the flood of opening private colleges. Coming to the assembly, in the car, on the radio, I heard a report from Radio Belgrade, where Mr. Knezevic, the former minister, quoted Serbia as finally starting to "vary" the newspaper. I'm sorry Mr. Knezevic isn't here, but I think that we here in Serbia are often exaggerating with some newspapers. When something is new, then we go with them to some extremes that lead to total nonsense. I think that's the way it is now when it comes to private universities, academia, colleges, etc. That's one big problem, and I haven't found anything new. A little while ago, a colleague of the Faith Radeta spoke about it. That's the problem I believe the present, but also future ministries and ministers will have the most work to do. In fact, private colleges exist in the world, and that's familiar. But for the public's sake, I have to say that not all private colleges are as good and as famous as they think. I cite an example of the U.S., where there are a dozen top-notch private colleges, where they can go to top-notch students, study elites, which, by the way, have a lot of money. Then, there are hundreds of great state universities and hundreds of them, someone said thousands of different private colleges that function on principle: you pay one counter, you sign in and you pay, and on the other counter you get a diploma and you pay. Unfortunately, as things happen with us, it seems to me that this trend should not be allowed to happen with us more than to introduce a much more rigorous process of obtaining accreditation. What is important and what is a general problem is not only when it comes to this law, which is that we can pass a good law, but we have to control how this law is applied. I think this problem is solved, but with proper and adequate control.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18380	The break is up to 14.55 p.m., when it comes to one of the two MPs, Nadica Momir or Tomislav Penezic, they will agree on the order. Thank you. [[After break – 15,05]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Tomislav Penezic, and then the Messenger of the people, Dragor Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on higher education is one of the most important laws for society and state. A good law on higher education is a prerequisite for all conditions for quality society. G17 plus will support this bill for several reasons. G17 plus is a party that advocates education reform, especially high. We have been actively involved in this process since the beginning. The law is in line with the Bologna Declaration, the process of acceptance and adoption of all documents necessary for the adoption and effective implementation of this law. Also, the law is in line with the European integration process. The G17 plus itself follows the process of adopting the bill and we can positively express ourselves on how the ministry works. Positive experience has been used and the process of reforming higher education from the previous period has been started. Then there was constructive communication and joint work with relevant institutions and experts in this area. Public debates were high-quality and respected, and the proposals and amendments from the AP Vojvodina were respected. There was active participation of students and particularly very constructive co-operation with MPs of all parliamentary parties. Based on such extensive work under one law, I personally expect to reach consensus on the adoption of this law. The bill itself has been said quite a bit. The law gives only form to one system of higher education and it is very advanced compared to the old system of higher education. Progress applies, above all, to the separation of the higher education system itself into two separate cycles. According to the type of study, they are divided into academic and professional. Academic studies train students to develop and apply scientific, professional and artistic achievements, while vocational studies train students to apply the skills needed to engage in the work process. A major advantage is the very system of evaluation of studies, i.e. Introducing a rating system as a unit of object measure. Why is that? So far, we've had an old evaluation system, which was exclusively based solely on getting a degree. So, in doing so, the process of acquiring knowledge was completely neglected in case of inability to obtain a diploma itself, so we had an absurd situation so that the student who passed the study process, means, has a number of exams passed, comes to an end, and for some certain reasons he can't graduate, he remains completely equal with the knowledge of high school, which is a great damage to a society. This system gives the opportunity to exploit any knowledge that a student receives, because each student takes his points with him and when applying for a job, in any case, is ahead of the one who has completed only secondary education. Also, a great advantage is the possibility of combining education that leads to an increased degree of quality. I'm going to give you an example, if someone has a tendency to economy and information technology, instead of what the situation is today, we have to finish two colleges, and in this case we can make a combination, so that we get an adequate degree that holds both knowledge in the field of economy and information technology, and that's how it's trained whenever it's in any case a great advantage of who's only finished economics or just information technology. I would like to mention one more detail of this law, given that there has been a lot of discussion about the time limits allowed. The bill, namely, provides for a double possibility to pass exams, and I think that's more than enough. Western countries only have the possibility of having one more exam re-scheduled. If you don't pass the exam within a certain time limit, you need to hear the whole case again. However, in Western countries the name of the case has been changed to the name - course. Why is that? This is because today, when compared to our old higher education system, you have the opportunity to passively receive knowledge by listening to lectures of a particular subject, and if it is a course, it involves the active participation of students in the knowledge process, which means work, whether it's seminar work or that it's work on some projects. When a student has the opportunity to study this way to have knowledge in his process, he has the opportunity to learn and work all year long to gain that knowledge, which has not been the case so far. So far, unfortunately, we have had this situation to be learned only as needed, that is, when the deadlines were examined and in this way we had so - called campaign work. This is how quality is achieved because we have continuous work throughout the year. The benefits of this law, i.e. A higher education system like this, we can talk for a long time. However, it is important that we adopt this proposal as soon as possible and begin to feel all the advantages in practice. The G17 plus calls on all MPs to vote positively for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18383	The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragor Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18384	Ladies and gentlemen, just when we're on vacation to point out the quotes, not to catch flies around here like some, recharge the batteries, and when we were hoping to approach one serious job, very serious because education is the foundation of a society, we spent that energy on NIS. We are disappointed that you have passed the law, and you are disappointed that you have to adopt it. We've spent our energy and then we've joined today's Higher Education Act. I accidentally, or deliberately counted, the law has 131 members, and the amendment to the law has, to say about 200, I don't even know how many more, because some are withdrawn, but about 180 or so. Some are withdrawn, some are added, as far as I can tell, but we'll see tonight, because we have a meeting of the Education Committee and there will be an examination of the amendments. Of which, the number of amendments, that it would not be that only the SRS submits amendments to obstruct the work. There are about 34 amendments, only 34 amendments to the SRS, and the rest are yours, gentlemen. Translated in Serbian and logical thinking, this law is not good, as soon as you repair it yourself in the meantime. But, come on, we'll discuss it probably in details a little bit more detail. I want to point out here now a regret that happens now, which I don't mind, that it's a half-empty joke, but especially when speaking from some of the senior experts in the SRS, I have to stress that, especially Dr. Professor. Milet Pocurica, you should have heard that. There was something to learn, gentlemen, and you were reading the paper at the time, someone was talking, we listened carefully and admired our colleague. However, I must express another regret, which is the speech of one professor for a pay phone here defending Serbia through the education law coincided with another SRS doctor, who is Dr Vojislav Seselj, who defends Serbia in The Hague. Half of Serbia was probably watching, and moreover, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and they had no opportunity to hear the presentation of Dr. Milet Poscuits. I am sorry, but there will be opportunities to read Dr. Mileta Poscurica's speech in our "Greater Serbia" list. We listened to other leaders, or representatives of authorized groups of MPs, and they praised, it seems to me, the law, and the right to tell you not to present any valid evidence, but to such a flat-rate saying that the law is good, that this is the best thing that could have been done in this area. However, it seems to me that this is not exactly the case and that the debate on amendments will show something quite different. The time I have is not long, but I will have time to point out, to suggest that I will refer especially later to the Bologna Declaration. Since Meho Omerovic looked back at one of the segments about corruption, I will not talk about it, because if he answers, let Meso answer. Here in the opening part of the reasoning is said in the end, "with the preservation of each country's cultural, language and national specificities. "I'm sorry, but it seems to me that here is the opposite of saying, destroying and forgetting, and misrepresentation. No longer history is what was history, now the rockers will be history, and Kosovo and other celebrities, I think Kosovo is not a person, let it be Emperor Lazar, will go into oblivion. I'm afraid it doesn't surface on our history of NGOs with some of their very famous advocates, which is one of them Natasa Kandic. And she'll seem to enter your history. I'll talk about sources of funding, it's standing here, just not now, because I won't have time, it says, donations, gifts and legacy, let's give these gifts and legacy okay. There are other good Serbs who give gifts and vows, and then some authority comes and sells these vows and gifts. I have this example now, the freshest one, but this thing worries me, this donation. It all seems to me like some Soros guy, that he's gonna get involved in this high school, but he's already gotten involved in all the pores of our society, so I'm afraid he's gonna get involved. Next, I'm going to talk about the test deadlines, which is the backbone of all students. We have amendments here, and there's something to be done, and normally I'm still going to talk about private colleges. And now I point out again, I'm giving a prize to whoever finds someone, I'm going to use a high school expression, who repeated it in private college, I say again, he could not pass the exam unless he got out. I'd have more, but time won't let me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18385	The word has the People's Messenger Dragore Hiber. He's not here. He gave up. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger Vladimir Andric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, education should be viewed as the most important public service, which has the task of providing our society with the future, not the business that is shown through the formal sale of certificates of acquired knowledge. This is specifically about higher education, but the same will happen when both primary and secondary education comes to the agenda before the Serbian Parliament's MPs. All of this will be created by a new declaration, as is now the case with Bologna, regardless of what it will all reflect retrogradely on the educational system. If, in basic education, we prescribe a recipe from a degenerated Western or American school, for example, children. learn the table of multiplication in the fifth grade, then you'll understand what kind of experts they'll be after finishing their studies in a higher education system like this. We have before us a proposal for a law on higher education. Writers of this proposal have lost sight of the fact that so far the higher education institutions have not, as they now often call them, uncreative memories of data, for years already created an intellectual elite from Serbia and Europe, including the world. Did the West take hundreds of thousands of our experts because they were, as it is said, only data keepers or because they were well-educated, in a good higher education system. Most of them are now leading experts in their fields precisely in developed Western countries and precisely with the knowledge they brought from schools and colleges in Serbia. The governing elite around the world, and thus our newly-composed one, continues to study in classical schools and in classical universities, such as Iton, Oxford, Cambridge, etc., while for the mental slaves of late liberalism, the capitalism was left to be built academically according to simplified, limited curricula. The Bologna Declaration, slowly but surely, confirms what Orwell wrote in "1984" that ignorance is power. In his novel, Orwell describes a totalitarian state where all subjects must adopt an opinion that destroys every logic. Keeping in the dark, i.e. in poor knowledge, a huge control apparatus will indeed be power and will be one of the priorities of the alleged reform of the hidden mondialist, which is unfortunately being conducted with us. Tomorrow we'll have something else in the Brussels Declaration, so Madrid, London, Berlin, etc. Whatever comes to mind in Europe or where a new era is being designed, just a cloak of declaration or directive, makes it sound better, so that the Holy Scriptures are not allowed to change a single letter. The next day, a declaration may arrive to limit the number of students in medical or other colleges, or for example. A projected suspension of some colleges. Why? Because it is our experts who impose their knowledge and abilities in the countries of Western Europe and the world, pushing their high schoolmates into another plan. Of course, everything they write on the outside will be accepted here as a new Comintern. When she disappears, we'll be in a ruined legislative system. Enough to refer to the principles set out in Article 4 of this proposal and, under point 5, to read the following - respect for the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. So, first it's Europe, then it's us. This Europe has already baptized us Serbs, past all historical facts and truths, in its educational programs as villains, as a genocide nation, ignoring the fact, deliberately or not, that the Serb people were just the victim of genocide several times in the last century. Our children will first learn about such a committed humanistic lie, and only after what has kept us alive. Just as we used to have to endure someone instilling in us a socialist consciousness, Marxist consciousness, as well as depending on whether or not someone will judge us as moral-politically similar, as well as now, but this time in the mirror of internationalism, some new European consciousness is being built on the creation of a new man who has been tarnished through this prepared instant education system. So one day, as dreams of unclassified society were scattered, the utopia of the idea of communism, leaving millions behind, so it is likely that this conglomerate-Union one day, faced with its economic, ethical, ethnic and religious contradictions, will be extinguished as if it had never been. Once again, there will be millions of people found out who they are and who they belong to. Most of the members of this bill are abolished financial and management independence, which corresponds only to private higher education institutions. This shows that money is the main reason in the apparent dispute between private and state universities. Education is a process that, as well as a profession, has evolved through centuries and has been successfully achieved and when the concept of dividend was not even known. Decisions that would equate ownership rights in higher education institutions with economic activities would only create an atmosphere in which the method - sell the diploma and disappear - would become a rule. The accreditation committee is also a special story. Since it should also be attended by representatives of private universities, they would first have to accredit themselves. Then, according to the logic of private profit, they would dispute accreditation to those state universities that educate profitable student profiles. The goal is clear: to bring as many students as possible to your private college, and therefore significantly fill your budget and your pockets. The praises of the Bologna Declaration represent in fact a simple fraud. Almost all state schools have not only their own tradition measured for centuries, but also the tradition of co-operation with universities across Europe and the world. Several generations of professors nurtured this collaboration, exchanged knowledge and experience, submitted themselves to international scientific criticism. No one here is likely to say anything about the resistance of the traditional Western European colleges to the Bologna Declaration and the introduction of a series of novelty coming from America and simply to the force of the kalem to the current legal solutions in this area. Now it turns out that everything was so bad with us. It was usually said for the period until 2000 about brain drains, as it was popular to say at the time. Why doesn't someone say that between 2001 and the end of 2003, so at the time of the upcoming prosperity of the then ruling DOS, more than 5,000 high school students left Serbia. Of course, when they realized that the promises of hundreds of thousands of jobs would be nothing and that only hundreds of thousands of fired workers were left, they went head-on regardless of Serbia. Medical, Electrical, Machine, Veterinary, Agricultural and other colleges in Serbia are considered to be nurseryrs of young experts. Our engineers and architects built countless bridges, dams, traffic, airports and who knows what else around the world without talking about doctors, scientific researchers in the field of genetics, medicine, biotechnology, chemistry, physics, etc. Now you want something someone else wants. The excuse is that the ruling majority will not receive us there after 20 years, and if this is adopted, they will see us in 20 years. Where it will take us, it will be seen in a decade, and then it will all be too late for young generations, both for the state and for the nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18387	The messenger of the people is Vladimir Andric, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Paj Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18388	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, will look only at two aspects of the higher education law, which are in some way ended today in the debate, and especially when it comes to length of study. It was the biggest problem and stayed for all of Europe, including Serbia. So inefficient universities in Europe and Serbia are one of the biggest problems that Europe is trying to solve, including Serbia, by adopting such regulations. When it comes to facilitating the study and the greater involvement of teachers and students, it is very important that we have made it possible by this law to change the system practically from two-semedral subjects to one-semed or one-sided, or one-way objects. Thus, the time for overcoming individual subjects is shortened and, most importantly, this subject is being co-ordinated in an active process between teachers and students. All that time from, say, 10 weeks, how long it's been going on for a three-month period, a teacher and a student doing tests, workshops, homework. We have a proposal of exams, a presentation in class, something that was not common in Serbia, which makes American universities recognizable and therefore far more effective than our universities and European universities. It's a different way of working that much more activates teachers and students, it's getting much shorter and most of the course is being mastered during those 10 weeks, if it lasts a three-month or possibly a semester. This is a major and very significant change that will lead to more effective studies, which is the goal and this law encourages this paper. Of course, one specific number of objects will continue to last for two semesters, but not more than two semesters. Another important thing is that in some ways the study itself is serious and achieves a greater responsibility for students and teachers by accreditation and licensing. This important job of accreditation should be carried out by the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check and, of course, the National Council for Higher Education, for its part, by proposing a policy in the area of higher education to the Ministry. They need to provide much more serious work on their own studies. So, at this point, we have a lot of mediocrity and mediocrity at our universities and university and the question is whether at some point the minister will reach out to these possibilities, so not to give accreditation, not to give permission to work with certain requirements. I think there's over 100 demands at this point for opening new colleges. Whether Serbia really has such potentials or not, it is a matter of the future accreditation and quality-checking commission. The National Council numbers 15 people and the commission numbers 15 members, so a huge responsibility on such a small number of people, and it is indeed a great task for them, as well as for the university itself to change. On the one hand, both the Government and the Assembly have finished their work when it comes to preparing our universities. With this law, we have prepared our universities for inclusion in a single European educational process. It is now at the university itself, at our universities to change and adapt. This law introduces this system of points, which will allow students to mobility. Something very important for Serbia after 10 years of isolation, not only for our students, but above all for our teaching chamber. At all of our universities, it is very important to enable this mobility and exchange again, which would allow Serbia, one of the poorest countries in Europe, to re-provide a higher level of education. So these are just some parts that may have been neglected today in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18389	The People's MP, Dr Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the MP Vesna Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18390	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here goes this debate the way it goes. You know the attitude of the SRS. We said we wouldn't vote for this law. I think it's worth repeating what are the essential reasons why we're not going to vote for this law. First, whenever we talk about passing new laws, we point out that they are being passed in one way that we do not accept. In order to pass one law, we repeat for the hundredth time, we ask that education system be analysed first and fully. We can't talk about higher education if we don't take into account those previous "steps" that must be aligned with the very top. Furthermore, if this is the case, a national policy for education should be adopted on the basis of this, and also part of that national adopted policy should be a high education policy. Furthermore, from this policy, which is to be adopted in this assembly home, a strategy should be developed, and this means that it is said that what is outlined in the objectives of national policy will be achieved, and then the law follows. In this country, it's done upside down. This is where the law wants to form a policy and strategy. There's no such thing in other countries of the world. We are in principle opposed to this way of passing laws like this. What's what we'd be interested in if we knew before, let's do it again briefly. We want to know if this country wants to affirm knowledge as the basic driver of social development, whether it stands out as something that's primary or perhaps one of the predatory privatisations that we are attending today in our country, or is it corruption, that you have in all segments of our society? We want to make it clear to this Parliament and our society that knowledge is a key driver of social progress. Accordingly, we are interested in how much the percentage of gross national income stands out for that education. How much of this do we stand out today? Is that below 1% of gross national income? (Freedan Vuksanovic, from place: 3.2%. ) Then we are better, then we are preceding, we should serve as an example and the United States, which sets out 2.68%. We step aside from all countries of Europe, as the EU average is 2.4%. Therefore, the extraordinary policy has been led to this plan so far, at least so says Mr. Minister. Furthermore, what is the percentage of the population covered by higher education? What we're interested in is what kind of knowledge and professional profiles do we want to have? We're interested in what the system of study will be, the numberus clause will exist and whether it should exist in state colleges. We're interested in the length of our study, and is that a problem if two-thirds of the lawyers, who are enrolled in law school, don't finish that college, and what kind of solutions does that have to be pre-warned? We are interested in the relationship between state and private educational institutions, which proportion should be there and whether there should be any proportions at all? We're interested in how to prevent the drain of our brains? On the other hand, if you're talking about the Bologna Declaration, how will you allow someone from abroad to come to us? You will tell us who will come to us. The Greeks are coming, at least to medical school, there they are today studying, coming from African, and some Asian and Arab countries. If you're already talking about Bologna, you have to have a chance for something like that. Another important reason why we will not vote for this is that under the company of harmonising our legislation with the European and the story of the Bologna Declaration and the Bologna Process, something that neither is the Bologna Declaration nor is the Bologna Process. In fact, so far, the worst violation of university autonomy and a severe centralisation that has never existed in any of the regimes and system that has so far ruled. We studied all the documents internationally before we got to these points of view. I'll be free to tell you, we know Prague in 2001, who wants to unite the European space of higher education, and we know the Rectorial Conference in Salamanca from the same year, which speaks of the European Research Area, we know about the Sorbonne Declaration everything, the Bologna Declaration we studied, as well as the Lisbon Convention. Please, what is the Bologna Process and the Bologna Declaration? It's not centralization and asphyxiation of autonomy in the way you do it. I'll be free to read you what academic freedoms are -- "freedom of scientific research and artistic creation", that's first, and then "freedom of choice method of interpretation of teaching content". It's not academic freedom of choice of teaching content, it's not an interpretation of whether you're going to sing or you're going to play in front of students, it's freedom, not what you're going to talk about. Your third freedom, that's your innovation, that's your third freedom of choice of study programs. The program isn't content, that's clear. You end academic freedoms in a way that no one has ever done before. But, well, if you're looking at what autonomy contains, how you counted it here -- how that autonomy can be realized inside the combinations, which you call the university. A combination that has 10,000 employees in Belgrade, Belgrade University, and which has tens of thousands of students, autonomy can be done in this way as you have copied from other foreign documents only if you do decentralisation. You've decentralised everything you can. You're detaching the AP. They can regulate anything they want. He gave you a nice Mr. Milosevic in his presentation of how generous you are here, but when concrete autonomy rights are to be exercised, then you remove them, then you go to an englomeration, then you go to a megauniversity. It's no wonder. If we see who the author of this is, and it's clear who the author is, this is a group from the Civil League, a failed party that no longer exists in real life, there is only formally, and it's clear that these frames were the leaders of the communist system, that these are former party secretaries at the university, who can offer us one such structure today. They talk from the time of the face -- do you know, gentlemen, at the time of the face, what was the content of scientific disciplines, how much knowledge there was at the time, for example, in the field of physics, and I'm talking about communist sciences, how can you say that was an advanced solution when it was all under one hat. See how many classes were taught in the first person, who started working, you said exactly what year, and look where science arrived today and what it is told students today and what education is. Let's make it clear again what the Bologna Declaration is, that you're not throwing out the fog that it's an end to autonomy, that it's centralization. It's not the Bologna Declaration. The Bologna Declaration came from the need to compete with Asian countries, i.e. Japan, the United States and Australia. It has been seen that this European space, European, 41 countries with hundreds of millions of students and over 520 universities, represents the greatest potential for higher-level education, but that the results resulting from this are not satisfactory. This is how this need was created to unite forces in the European space. Principles are clearer, extended and more consistent academic degrees and adjunct to diplomas, so that people can work faster and easier. This has been clarified to make clear the names of all professional academic professions. Second, a single system of two cycles - undergraduate and postgraduate. Again, that formula three, two, three, Europe has agreed that the first degree of education is the most appropriate for them, so that people can be hired as soon as possible. Is that okay with us? He's not responding in all disciplines. Medicine can't even fit for four years, as long as you allow it to last in medical school. There's no medical school in the world where you can learn what you think in four years. It's not a world solution, it's something that's nakarad. Next, the introduction of the credit system, and the points are obtained both at universities and outside the university. The principle of continuous education is introduced for life and is equated with that system that will exist at the university. It's the Bologna Declaration. I don't see it in these legal solutions of yours -- the free movement of students and teachers, checking the quality to be unique in this Europe, if possible and, of course, the reduction of funding by the state, the increasing pressure to be as little public isolation as possible for this area in the world. This is followed by the European Commission. You know, trend one, trend two, trend three. There's a regular publication that talks about problems. I won't talk about it. The mass is an amendment that has been tabled. This may mean two things, and that the members of the people are engaged, and that what you have offered is not good. You couldn't avoid this path to get rid of logical errors in your solutions, so you say that higher education institutions and those who work in them, who represent those institutions, perform. We're not performing anywhere. We're just representing if we go to our university somewhere. You'll find that, for example, in article 55. You couldn't even do that. She can't go through with it. It's a little thing, but in serious people, it can't happen. So the SRS' position is quite clear. You're putting chicken eggs in here, talking about the Bologna Declaration, seducing centralization and eliminating autonomy and academic freedom. Please, if I'm not speaking correctly, come out and deny it. I would point out one more thing, he wrote a great article in "Serbian Political Minds", our former counterpart Ristivojevic from the DSS. I don't know if he's still in that party. I don't see him. It's about that reform of yours and this bill of yours. I recommend to all of you, and to those of you who gave up your hands to praise this DSS law, read what your colleague Ristivojevic wrote, and everything will be much clearer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18391	The word has a People's MP Vesna Obradovic, and let Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18392	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I do not fully agree with the previous speaker, and I do not feel that there is a need to talk about the necessity of the transformation of higher education, or the necessity of the adoption of a new law on higher education, which would modernly edit the area. The 1999 Bologna Declaration, signed by Serbia in 2003, is moving forward with the process of Eurointegration. We enter the Bologna process primarily so that the diplomas of our students will be valid in other countries, which has not been the case so far. I had to point this out, because in some parts of the world, there is a feeling that our diplomas are all over the world, which is a delusion. A graduate medical school student had to pass and pass exams over a period of several years in order for his diploma to be recognized everywhere in the world. So, the goal is to create a single European education space, which primarily means to intensify the international mobility of students, teachers and administrative staff, which, as a result, logically and has an improvement in the quality of higher education. The Higher Education Law brings a large number of newspapers into Serbia's higher education system and allows for radical reform of the education process. In the last 40 years, our education system has largely not been changed, or based on a concept established in the early 20th century. Only passing laws will speed up reforms that have not been possible so far, as there are no real legal standards. Just the fact that the University of Belgrade has 75,000 students and only every ninth of them graduates in time, it says how inefficient the system has been so far. According to the proposal of this law, studies are divided according to species into academic and professional studies. Academic studies aim to train students to develop and implement scientific, professional and artistic achievements for four years, plus one year to perfect, while vocational studies should train students to participate in the work process for three years, plus two years for further training. According to the level of studies, studies in the first degree, consisting of basic academic and primary vocational studies, then studies in the second degree, specialist vocational and specialist academic and master studies, and studies in the third degree, doctoral academic studies. The paper in this law is the introduction of a credit system, a European credit transfer system. The new system of study is not based on the year's enrollment, but on the number of points reached. The main problem with studies so far was just passing exams. So so far, we've had a case to say a fifth-year student, enrolled in a fifth-year course, and passed five third-year exams, so he couldn't concentrate on classes, in his fifth-year class, but he was worried about how he was going to take five third-year exams. According to the proposal for this law on higher education, which is now ahead of us, the scope of the study is expressed by the sum of points, each academic year worth 60 points or credit, which corresponds to one average student engagement during one school year. This gives students the opportunity to continue their studies on the second study programme and transfer the number of points already reached to the programme. Study programmes are achieved within the framework of educational and scientific fields, which are natural and mathematical sciences, socio-humanist sciences, medical sciences, technical and technological sciences and art. The bill also provides for four types of independent higher education institutions, which are - university, academia of vocational studies, high school predicts and provides for a higher school of vocational studies. An independent higher education institution shall establish higher education units as forms of internal organisation, and the higher education units shall have a legal personality, provided they have at least three approved i.e. an accredited study programme. The proposal for this law also regulates the calling of teaching staff, as well as the conditions for a choice in a particular calling. So now they're calling teachers -- a lecturer, a professor of vocational studies, a doctor, an extraordinary professor and a regular professor. Teachers chosen to call lecturers and professors of vocational studies can teach only in vocational studies, while teachers chosen to call a doctor, an extraordinary and regular teacher can teach on all types of studies. The names of teachers whose acquisition is not conditioned by establishing a working relationship with a higher education institution, according to the provisions of the bill, are still - visiting professor and professor emeritus i.e. He's a retired professor. They shall conclude an engagement contract for the performance of the course. Co-operational calls under the new law are an associate in the teaching and assistant, and for the implementation of study programmes of foreign language lecturer and senior lecturer. The call of co-workers in the follow-up can be obtained by a student of master or specialist studies, who completed the first-degree studies with a total average score of no less than eight, and the call of assistants can be obtained by a doctoral student who also completed the second degree with a total average score of no less than ten. A major controversy in the public has also caused the accreditation process. Whether or not to get licenses. Accreditation is a process where the national accreditation body checks whether the relevant European standards regarding the quality of the teacher's staff, the number of students, the area of the building used and its equipment are met. It's a process that both state and private colleges have to go through and, of course, it can't be done overnight. This law provides for a period of three years from the date of education of the accreditation commission. Of course, additional funds are needed to implement this law and are provided by the 2005 budget. The finance ministry has very serious access to the problem of education, as well as the fact that it is for school 2005/2006. A year of half a million dinars from the reserve for talented students, i.e. that 1,000 of the best students in the upcoming school year will receive 20,000 dinars per month of scholarship, and for 100 of the best graduates, 125 million dinars are allocated, which is proof that this government takes care of its generation, which is the basis of every stable and modern state. The G17 plus will vote for this law, because, as always, it supports all the positive laws that lead us to Europe and that bring Europe to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18393	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and then by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to explain why the MPs of the SRS will not vote for this law, I only have two remarks. The first refers to the ministers' activities, especially those of the "bulldozer revolution" and so on. Everyone was trying to leave a clue, to stay famous for something. Even that unfortunate Mihajlovic, who was clouded by the retreat mists, managed to see something. A lot of people were trying to find something. Dinkic found a way to smuggle social, state-owned money into private pockets. Many have found a hole in the pot, hot water, and the Minister of Education has found us a new language. which is now called the Bosnian or Bosniak language and introduced it to schools, for the first and second grade primary schools in areas inhabited by Muslim life, above all, in the Raška area. The second remark concerns the morning presentation of MPs DS Gasa Knezevic, who was here in the spirit of defending the law, justice, legality and university, and the same Gašo Knezevic, unfulfilledly kicked out of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade of Law three years ago by Professor Vojislav Seselj. He didn't miss the hair on his head today. We'll go back to the topic that's being discussed today. We'll get back to the law. The SRS is against this law for several reasons. The first is, the law abolishes the autonomy of the university and transfers autonomy to the university. Even Tito didn't end the university's autonomy. You remember, those who were a little over the age of one in 1968, student demonstrations, when the police weren't allowed to enter the Faculty of Philosophy, at the Faculty of Philology, and the students were holding stands inside, they spoke. Tito didn't dare bring the university to the level of the task force. With this law, the minister dares to abolish that autonomy and make the most common working unit of law school. An out-of-state department at a primary school will have as many rights as any college in Belgrade will have, legally in particular, because it should defend, according to its own name, the most it should defend autonomy. Secondly, when we adopted the Law on Middle Education, we adopted a state institution called the National Educational Council, in which academics, top professors, were elected, not only Serbian, but world names from the field of science. Today we are proposed, as soon as this law is passed, some new institution that will be called the National Council. We don't see why there should be two institutions. Secondly, what is it that the first institution - the National Educational Council does not satisfy, so now another institution has to, unless you think about capturing some that should possibly be celebrated. Postgraduate studies, especially at vocational schools, such as medical schools, for example, have also been devalued. Today, medical school takes five and a half years, or six years with finals. After graduating from medical school, a finished student gets a doctor's call, two years goes to postgraduate studies, gets a call from a master, and if he wants to continue teaching, not just a profession, he goes for another two years, gets a call from a doctor of science, etc. Today's medical school comes down to four years, and in those two years, it gets the doctor's doctor's call and the magistrate's. The next thing in this bill, it's not right that the teacher's and the co-workers' titles are so intertwined, so jumbled. So far, we have had very clear and clear criteria. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to be confused, all our scientists, all our experts who appear in the white world, are mostly gathering laurels. Here, we are witnessing that now in London, which is known for the cradle of certain branches of medicine, we have our man, from Leskovec, who, as a doctor, went to our stomachs for bread and there achieved world fame in the field of genetics. Therefore, wherever ours appear and with these names that were acquired in college, high confessions and world fame are obtained. We have today in this proposal, an associate in the class, it was called an assistant intern. The difference between an assistant intern, the name we're used to, and a co-worker in the class is huge. First, the assistant intern is until she gets a master's call. He continues as an assistant, unless there's an empty spot for the doctor's post, and then, when he gets his doctorate, he moves on. Why now an assistant intern, then an assistant assistant, I don't even know what they're gonna call themselves. The subject-fixing system within the curriculum has also been mixed up. I will read to you, since I have so much time left, the Serbian Law School Conference has sent 12 objections to the SRS parliamentary club and I will use them to read them to you. "The Serbian Law Faculty Conference, held at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad on 5 March 2005," I suppose the minister got this and was deaf from this. I don't think we should go deaf about the opinion of our distinguished law professors. "The conference insists that the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, especially for the following reasons: 1. The bill completely abolishs the autonomy of the university, namely status, management, financial and personnel, which is absolutely unacceptable. 2. It is inadmissible that universities with decades of experience and top-notch results in work, which represent the earlier universities, are in a position to re-apply for work and accreditation. 3. Such a bill is contrary to the intensities of the Bologna Declaration, which are aimed at building a single European area of education and improving the quality and efficiency of education which, otherwise, fully supports. 4. Such a bill is contrary to the experiences of European universities, especially the countries of the environment. 5. The conference notes that the law-making process completely ignores the results of the public debate at law schools and requires that the principle of public and regular legislative procedures be applied when drawing up a new draft law. Six. It should not be allowed on behalf of the alleged reform of higher education, on behalf of the state, and contrary to its interests, to destroy very state-level law schools, as vital institutions of higher education. Seven. A legal and factual position in which, in the case of law-making, all law schools in the country would be found, would have a markedly adverse impact on the education of legal staff, which represents the personal foundation of the rule of law. 8. The conference believes that the functions that the bill aims at the university are pre-named and completely inadequate for state universities with a large number of universities in different areas of education of students and employees. Nine. The conference believes that the proposed solutions from the law are too general and undefined, leaving too much room for sub-legal regulation and arbitration, which significantly violates the fundamental rules of legal certainty. Ten. The conference considers it unacceptable to return moral-political similarity to the university under the form of professional ethics," because in the end, who will decide what is professionally ethical and what is not, but what is not, but what are you going to deploy. And that will be what the professors of law school say to him, therefore, moral-political similarity. 11. The conference considers it an unacceptable emergency procedure for the adoption of a basic law on higher education, which is the first such example in Serbia's legislative practice. 12. Unless the law is withdrawn, the Conference of Law Schools will take all necessary measures to protect its independence and rights acquired. "From this twelveth point, I think the minister, if he respects the opinion of our professors and academics, has drawn the conclusion that after this discussion, he will come out for a pay phone and this law will withdraw from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18395	Since MP Milan Markovic is not in the O.R., the word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Velimir Simonovic, and after that, MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've recorded a few points I'd like to say about, but I'll probably leave some out for a short period of time. Besides, I have amendments, so there's going to be a chance to say something more when it comes to amendments. You all know I've been here for a long time, while several higher education laws have been passed. They used to be separated, especially for higher schools, and especially for universities. This is the first time you've passed a single law on higher education. I am sorry that there has never been a real parliamentary debate in the Assembly about the system of education with us. Although it has been in every meeting of university professors among MPs, whether it was not enough to create what physicists call a critical mass or what was not enough to advocate in the parties, it should now be interpreted in one way or another, but they are having discussions that would result in the government's tasks not being in this parliament. First of all, I mean what was often called reorganization, rationalization, but it's a sensitive subject and no government wanted to get into these problems seriously. When I talk about rationalization, I don't think colleges should be abolished, although I can immediately give examples of at least two universities in Belgrade that need to be abolished because they are unnecessary, a department in some colleges or some departments, but I don't just mean that. If there are scientific areas that are not studied at any of our colleges, then we need to form a department where there can be places or departments or even a new college. So when I say rationalization, I don't just mean abolishing, new colleges can be set up, if this requires modern scientific development and if there are such important scientific areas that we don't systematically study anywhere. I'm saying, there was no real controversy about it, and no government wanted to get into the process very seriously. We need to see if we need so many engineering colleges, I mean Serbia, if we need five universities, if we can get this country to support financially and if we really need it; whether we need so many students for academic studies, or if it can be a little smaller if we tighten the criteria for enrollment. What's this about? He has every right to education in our country, that's clear and that's the way it's supposed to be. But, please, the state is obliged to give everyone, so when they go to primary schools, they give equal chances, and after that they get to that education; whether they want to learn, whether they are able to learn and so on. It's about like this, you've got one sandland and a whole river goes up into that country, that's all those basics that there's hundreds of thousands, and then high school kids have less and less, students even less, doctors science even less, academics even less and finally down there are just a little wet, at the end of that sandy land. In that sandy country, everyone is educated as much as they can, because someone doesn't want to learn from a level, someone's not capable, it's something to say openly, because it's not easy to finish college, it's hard work. So that's what I'm saying for any college, it takes a lot of effort, but when someone graduates from college and gets a degree, he gets a certain status in society. Someone can say, no matter what status, but we're gonna get better, and college's gonna be worth it someday. That's what the state has to worry about, putting everyone who's educated in the same position at the start, and then who gets there. It is understood that the government has now made the first serious attempt to seduce order in higher education and in this sense this law has a whole series of advantages, which should be adopted in this parliament, although it is likely that some solutions will make it very quickly to some changes and supplements, which is also not something that is unknown. There's gonna be a problem, say, in this schooling of 3+2. Last night, I talked a little bit about it on the Education Committee, because we have colleges that last four years, that's legal, economic, that's all those teaching colleges for biology, physics, chemistry, etc. If we say 3+2, then we automatically extend studies for those who want to study for another two years. Is someone who finishes math the first part, so the first part I say again, to be a high school professor? That's got to be settled, whether he gets to be a teacher at that school or not, because maybe he can only be in elementary school. Could a lawyer who ends his first three years be a judge? Does he have to go two more years to study? And that's not discussed enough here, and these calls that will come in three or two years later, I suggested that the amendment be later resolved, so, which will be called by students when they finish the first three years, the other two, etc., but we'll see about that. I don't want any more of that. There's a Bologna Declaration, it's written in these papers, there's been a lot of words about it, and there's really no need to repeat it. As for the reform of university teaching, to be clear, please, no law can reform university classes. That depends on the professor. Those professors who are really real university professors, who are really actively engaged in their science, they are constantly reforming everything that's out of date, putting in new things and new methods, new formulas and new principles. It's very important and it's important to pay attention here, I mean the criteria of the teacher's choice, because there's no university class without science, and that's why they're calling a scientific and teaching council, not a science teacher. Science is number one, and teaching is number two. That's what needs to be taken care of, because there must be science at the university, there's a place for it, and as far as we know, there are no scientists without students, and the students are at the university. So much has been said about autonomy. Please, let's clarify some delusions, what is the essence of university autonomy? It is that a university teacher is free to present his science and choose a scientific field to deal with, provided he does not spread in lectures religious and national hatred, retrograde ideas and so on. That's the essence of autonomy. The steering part is not the essence of autonomy, even though it exists with us. We choose our own deans, rectors, etc. And the state doesn't get involved in it. But you have countries like France, where the rector and dean are determined by the government. When a lady from Paris was here a few years ago, a vice president of Paris University, so a conversation with her was published at Politics, she said: I can be replaced by the government every day if I don't do well. According to some old tradition, even when a university professor is elected to the highest calling (regular professor), the solution is signed by the President of the Republic, in order to attach to that title the importance that this calling deserves in society. Governing function; the state can't give money without asking what to do with that money. He's got to take care of it. Now there's something else important here, and it's controlled study, it's foreseen by this law, and it's very good, it has to be out of our university practice to disappear from the concept of "absolute." A student has to go to college this fall, or he's already enrolled, if the college takes so many years, that he knows exactly the day he gets his degree at the end of his studies, and not that, as a colleague says, he's got a fifth year, he has no idea how many third-year exams, and then he's a college graduate in the best years of his life, 22, 23 years of age, when he can create the most, he's a graduate. It's psychologically harmful for these young people, devastating. They need to finish school as soon as possible and get to work as soon as possible, who can work where he can, etc. It now requires a lot more engagements from both professors and assistants to deal with students more, to control their work over the year, to get a good number of points for the exam over the year, eventually to be maybe 20% of the exams as a final part, etc. There may be a lack of teachers somewhere, because you can't put a teacher I don't know how many students, and he's going to exercise control of how they get the material back in the year. Now there's been a lot of talk about an integrated university. It's not really a new idea. There have been stories here and here in Belgrade about this, if you study mathematics in many universities, let's say at all technical schools there are mathematics 1, 2, 3, 4 etc., couldn't it all be heard at the Faculty of Mathematics and that we don't have in the technical schools of the Department of Mathematics or Physics etc. It could be if the university were much smaller, if it were the departments, so the Faculty of Machines has, say, 100 students, but if there are 700, where they will listen to teaching, so the other 700, that's inconclusive, because Belgrade University is grotesque. It's too big. I am convinced that the University of Belgrade, because of this integration required here, will soon be divided into three universities, but that is not so terrible. I have information from 15-20 years ago. Tokyo had 95 universities at the time. It's not 95 times bigger than Belgrade. These were some small universities private, some state, several larger etc., but almost 100. Therefore, there will be no tragedy if the university is divided into several universities. Finally, we had in one period, some probably and remember, a technical high school that covers technical schools, we had a medical high school that includes medicine, pharmacies, veterinary and dentistry. It took a few years, so it's been lifted again, it's all put under the university. But for such a large university, this integration will go very hard or is almost practically inconclusive. I know there's a university in Italy with departments for various scientific areas, so they listen to math all in one place, they listen to chemistry all in one place and so on. But for Belgrade University, which is huge, it simply won't be possible. Let me stop at that, and there'll be times when there's a speech about amendments to say a little more about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18397	The word has been given by the People's MP, Professor Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue today where we left off, approximately after these numerous remarks made by the MPs of the SRS. I'm going to look at some other aspects of why we feel that the law is passed by emergency procedure, based on the Bologna Declaration, there's actually no reason to complain about this fact, because it's neither reform law nor any law that leads to real autonomy. In a certain way he's actually leading us into a new kind of centralization. While colleges had total freedom to create a teaching programme, a choice, apart from the election of deans and the election of leading furniture at the university and the university of the last, from 2000 to 2000, we have had this solution by law since 1998, and that was then assessed as an extremely undemocratic way. So whoever owned the money, which the founder couldn't choose by running the frame, or what the perpetrators are now called, the directors or managers, were in that status, we now see that this remains a solution from the previous law, and we think that the current solution is only the evolution of the Law that we have and evolution that will lead to worse solutions. Since it is quite clear from our side that we do not want to leave the impression that we are defending the existing law like this, nor that we are against the reforms that the world is introducing, we are against the fact that these reforms concern us when we did not ask for them, when no one relevant has assessed that we need them and that the participants of the educational process themselves have not said that the present concept of education is being embossed with bad experiences and that we are fundamentally, which is information, expertise, education, attainment of the goals envisaged for us seems quite normal, and no one has questioned it and we do not see the need for such difficult interventions. I haven't talked enough today about elections in academic calling. In particular, I draw attention to what is stated in the law first, which is that in the context of integrated studies, medical profession studies from the medical field, the teaching content from that area provides for four years of schooling to the primary degree and getting the doctor’s doctor’s degree in medicine, dentistry, master’s degree in pharmacies, etc. But for the next two years of learning, which has so far been some sort of minimum for mastering the teaching program, we don't know what it's going to contain. We'll hardly have a very clear concept, and after two years, when it's due to be known, but they'll all end up with a master's degree in pocket. What can this specifically mean in the context of the election in co-operational titles? This means that every college medical profession that schools a student with an average above 8 will have at the door of a new candidate who will report for an assistant trainee or as you now call a co-worker in the follow-up. Of course, we do not know what this termological change has been introduced. She is not in spirit with the law and our current customs, university practice, but as such she was introduced. This means that the university will have to receive a large number of executives, therefore, continuers, who, according to the bill, will be given very short time, years plus years, to prove themselves on the plan, and they are already almost masters of science. It's a very short time and a very short time, but at the same time it burdens the college budget. Now let's meet in a situation where we'll be in after the law is passed. If college funding within the university depends on some kind of, uh, defined agreement between the dean and the rector, the college, the rector and the dean of the university, then the competence problem will be very pronounced. How will medical professions colleges be able to ask for 10, 15, 20 assistant trainees or co-workers in the course, and let's say some technical professions can only be chosen for one or two? How are you going to refuse to give? He's not going to find a private capital college, or a state-owned university, to take these young people in, theoretically, for two years. You have an explanation for that, too. You say, "There will be a greater selection of personnel." Okay, I agree, but what about every year when new and new masters arrive, what about when it takes only two years for it to start all of a sudden, within those two years, those who have now started to occupy colleges. We will have the chance to be very often unfair and in the conditions that are in the bill, where we do not have defined additional criteria so-called. The others to choose from in co-operation, we won't actually be able to know exactly what it's going to be like for us to choose who we choose and who we don't. Finally, when such ones are selected, chosen in a magical way, the conditions of enrolment of studies, doctoral studies, they will again end them in an enormously short time, or just by writing professional papers in magazines, become doctors of science. It's a precedent I really didn't know existed. It's possible that in someone's world practice there is, but all of us here who have completed such a third-degree study don't know about it. By the way, while I'm at it, I'm also saying that this law is not settled according to the declaration, because we've led to a third, we've introduced three levels instead of two as the declaration suggests, but on that path. So, how are we going to go into the hyperproduction of doctoral calling, calling a doctor of science, especially a doctor of medicine. Turns out we're favouring one area of science right now, so they can get to the bottom of it. De facto is not a fact, because these doctors won't be doctors of medicine, with the full content of programs they've had so far, not full size, not full content, they simply won't be able to fit into a given scheme. Why, then, finally, go to reforms that we know will have very large shortcomings on the ground. But, of course, that's probably from somewhere, it has to be done to the end, and that's the principle. Why is it not the Bologna Declaration, when you want it, so implemented in two levels, as they did in the legal solution of Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, and then have doctoral studies such as that second degree, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral studies in the second degree. The thing would be so clear, it wouldn't be by automatism that it would be called professionally and academicly, as expected, not for a small number of students. Of course we want to point out once again that the absence of national interest and strategies in this regard is seen through the fact that no one has done a thorough analysis of the number of universities, needs and needs of personnel. If more than 30,000 students are enrolled each year and graduates from it 12,000, and in the process while the law applies we will have that rhythm, what will we do with the new arrival under this law, if you adopt it, the newly arrived chamber that will have a chance to work and some other educational profiles and have other titles. For example, he won't get a degree, he'll get a witness because he didn't complete the basic volume of studies of 180 or 240 points, as far as he goes through the European score transfer system. So, one of the misunderstandings, where we're going to hire these people when we don't have a state concept, about what's going to be privatized, what's really not going to be and what's going to be left in our hands, how we're going to wait for grace periods in which someone will eventually have to return what we took, and we're just going to hire someone in the economy that we don't have. If the truth is different, if we are schooling for European needs when, then it's a different story, then that should be made clear. But then again, we say that we are in a certain advantage over those who serve our declarations and who serve us instructions on how to behave, although we are still at the point of view that the declaration as such is not so rigid, is not written in such principle consistently and as it is so observantly imagined, as it has been implemented through this proposal of the legal text. We have not heard anywhere, nor has there been any relevant analysis – I do not count on the analysis of NGOs, which, with this proposal, started, 10-15, do not count it as a relevant opinion – which assessed our education system as bad. In the morning, I made one remark, which is terrible, about someone leaving, becoming someone, and then saying, "He became because he had to learn a lot." It's not a real rapper for success. So, who is and where has characterized the system as bad, what is it like now as a novelty, the mobility of studies, the mobility of professors. And in my day, it could travel anywhere, Tito's worst time. You got the average, you got the money, you don't need the money, all the state paid, and you want to go to the state you want as a student in exchange to go. That'll do it now. The crowd of students comes, goes, returns. It's just that we're promoting academic mobility from professors to students is absolutely not drinking and I think whoever was walking into any college room, any time he spent two hours, he heard it exists and there's absolutely no problem. If there's a teacher's immobility, it's only possible because it's hard to get a visa. Perhaps you from the ruling coalition can best say why it is so difficult or harder than ever to get a visa to go anywhere, even for a professional convention. All your search, all your papers are asking you to get a chance to visit a professional congress, even when you have a job, all the necessary prerogatives, when the organizer is clear, the clear purpose of the trip. So if there's a problem they're these types and we don't see the reasons why put it in the first place and why the public puts it in a position to believe that only after this kind of legal project will you be able to hear a foreign lecturer or someone who perfects undergraduate or postgraduate to go out when it's simply not true. We have also heard some remarks from speakers who have indirectly testified about the validity of the 1998 law and I completely agree, the SRS fully agrees. Perhaps with some slight changes, the law could be valid for decades, if no one touched him anymore, because that's where they found their interest in colleges, universities and students with a more liberal study regime. If we want to change that, maybe change the number of exams that are being passed over the next year, etc. There is a crystal clear definition to the end, and it is known to whom the accounts, to whom they correspond, one vertical and a clear hierarchy. With this blurring of the relationship in which you give, and whatever you give to the university will never be real, direct, strongest and greatest institution of the educational process. He can't escape from his essence that the sum of colleges, the sum of high schools. Free colleges, as we see it, will have a better status – they will become high schools etc., so they will be able to organize and study, have financial and legal independence, and postgraduate studies can make – rather than universities that will be part of the university. One of the gallamates of change, and we're simply found out why, who indicated them, why they were needed. When it comes to points, there's no public impression that we're against norming. Anything that can be normalized, which is subject to normisation, which can be proved numerically, we're not against. But it's hard to describe content, decryption to show numerically or a set of different descriptive contents or contents at all. Perhaps it would be acceptable in our opinion if you compared the same teaching content or the same teaching program to two colleges or colleges. For example, it would be understandable that the subject of internal medicine is being daggered, to see how much this is worth on dental, how much on medical, how much on pharmaceuticals. That would make sense, purpose. How are you going to introduce a score when at our three universities, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, according to what's on the sites, the same item is studying a different number of semesters, but according to the old law, with different selections of items, which can come as an election, somewhere is an electoral item of emergency, somewhere statistics, somewhere clinical microbiology etc. Every item of the election has its own point. You can't when someone shows up in internal migration, in the internal exchange of students, and formally competes with the same number of points to go from Kragujevac to Nis, there are 60 points, whether they've gotten them based on the same weight of mastering the same program and the same volume, that doesn't necessarily mean. So, new misunderstandings and, what's the greatest miracle, sacredly, which is unclear, which is foggy, conspirative, unnecessarily done, to whom is it placed in jurisdiction? Put into jurisdiction to regulate the institution itself. Who, "accident college," by his general act. Imagine the situation in the teaching and scientific councils that are obliged, when they create programs, to mark it and to edit it, to get each item a certain point item. Who will ever reconcile the different cathedrals (freely and verbally warn me, these bells may also mean a call for those on the side), how this will be balanced, what an insurmountable bite for the colleges themselves, it will only be seen in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18399	I didn't want to interrupt you in half a sentence, which is why I gave you a non-verbal sign. The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, then Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to use this exhibit of mine to point out something I wanted to advertise as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to particularly bother this gathering. I would like to inform the president of the National Assembly, but also Minister Vuksanovic, of the following. Namely, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group addressed parliamentary issues, five issues by Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, on February 2, 2005. I want to tell you, fellow MPs, that Mr Ilic has not answered these parliamentary questions to this day, which is a violation of his obligations stemming from his position as minister, his constitutional obligations and his obligations under this Rules of Procedure. So, I ask Mr. Vuksanovic and Mr. President of the Predrag Markovic Assembly to influence a colleague from their coalition, the most effective minister, as we are told in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to fulfil their obligations set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this law is concerned, I must tell you that our parliamentary club really had a big dilemma whether to support the law on higher education, or whether to support the solutions given here or to vote against the law, and you know that it is not difficult for us from the Democratic Party to vote for government proposals whenever these government proposals represent a step forward, and in those cases where that step forward is not enough, it is not brave enough, it is not big enough, it is not as if the Democratic Party were in a position to propose legislative proposals. Finally, as Professor Gassa Knezevic said, we have accepted that we vote for this law, we have given a significant number of amendments, Mr Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have accepted our proposals, some have, some have not. In any case, our definitive conclusion is that this law should be supported, although it does not represent a step forward to the extent to which it would be that the DS is the legislator of this law. So what we resent about the government of the Republic of Serbia from the very beginning is that it is not brave enough to sometimes lead Serbia backwards, and when it goes forward to do so with great hesitation, insecure and not sufficiently. The reasons for being out of line. I will not praise the provisions of this law that are good, because there is no need for it, I will refer to the criticisms of this law, and these are the views of both the DS and my views as a MP, which I have expressed in some of the amendments I have submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll try some chronological order. First, we discussed this yesterday on the Committee, the issue of accreditation and the criteria for which this accreditation is being carried out. So this is not a special criticism to the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor to Minister Vuksanovic, but I want here in front of the MPs and before the public to express the dilemma I have when it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions. Of course, accreditation for the start of work is carried out according to those standards and criteria that are applicable at the time of the start of work of a higher education institution. Normally, they refer to the programme, the professional tub, the equipment, etc. I'm afraid we have a big problem because this accreditation issue is over. I think there should be some kind of accreditation that would be worth the final product. The final products of higher education institutions are those that complete education in the institution. So there should be a key issue of accreditation, what kind of personnel come out of higher education institutions. You know, one college can have a number of science doctors, it can have good rooms, computers, etc., but in that college, exams can be very strange, and it can be done in extreme cases with a lack of knowledge fund, in some ways that don't exactly fit the standards of the modern world, and that kind of higher education institution can work. If we were to consider in the future the possibility of accreditation which would be some kind of revision of what is happening at a higher education facility, I think we would significantly improve the quality of the products we get, which is a final student of three-year or five-year studies. So this is the dilemma that remains, but which I cannot specifically refer to as a criticism to the Ministry, but I am asking it as one question of thinking, so that in some subsequent changes to this law, we might do something about it. Also, which is a criticism to the promoter, I don't think this bill affirms an appropriate private initiative. I think many legal solutions are being choked by a private initiative. Explain a few examples why I think it is. First of all, Article 41 provides that 60 percent of full-time teachers are required to start work from the total number of teachers required to carry out teaching on a study programme required by the work permit. I have a dilemma here, which I couldn't figure out last night on the Education Committee, which is whether it's just about the first year of study or all three or five years of study? Because if you ask the founders of the university to have 60 percent in a steady working relationship, and it applies to all five years of study, you'll find it hard to find a founder who's willing to hire so much capital, to hire so many doctors of science, and to have them sit down, until that first year's student gets to age five to do something. Of course, it doesn't have to be like that, it can be three years, but you generally pay someone for a job that doesn't work, because he has no one to teach because the college is just founded. When a university is established, he enrolls students of the first year of study and what should he do in the third year of his studies, and you have to pay him a salary, or the one in the fourth or fifth year of his studies? I had one amendment there, but because he's technically maybe a little unprepared, that amendment I pulled. We've got a Board of Education tonight. If you think I'm right, the Board of Education could give some amendment here, if it's allowed to allow that private initiative. It's the second question of the founder's position. Article 52 provides for the composition of the advice of a higher education institution. Imagine, someone invests significant capital, and his participation in the council is only one-sixth, and the advice of the higher education institution decides on very important issues, so in the end, the question is, what is with the profit and who decides on the distribution of profits. We cannot expect private capital to be engaged in a situation where important issues will be decided by someone else, not by the founder. I think these are two significant reasons why a private initiative in this field won't come to life. We need a private initiative because competition will be created and quality always comes as a consequence of competition. So I think that tonight at the Committee meeting, scheduled for 18 hours, these two questions should be considered. Also, one of the questions that I find controversial is the question of a bank guarantee. The bank guarantee refers to a case where the private university, or private college, ceases to operate and in some ways the students who paid for the damage. It's not a bank guarantee in itself enough to deprive students. It's not all about money. A student who came to the third year of study, before the end of the third year of study, needs to find a way to continue his studies. It's often the most important time for a student not to lose a year. That's what he's fighting for, after all. It's much more important for us to commit colleges to conclude a contract with other colleges that will take over a student in the event of a dropout from this university. It's the way to solve this problem. I repeat, I think the student's weak satisfaction is that someone will pay him back his tuition. I don't think this is a big problem, because I think there's an amendment to a colleague and there's a need to think about it and accept it, with a bank guarantee that would refer to a material vomit, so accept that amendment that predicts that there must be a contract with another higher school institution that will take over students, because for students, it's most important that they don't lose years. That's what's about the bank guarantee. Also, I don't think this law has solved the problem of the system of criteria and standards of funding higher education institutions. I don't think the way high school institutions are financed by the state right now is good. I think one of the key criteria for funding higher education institutions should be the number of students and that should be a way to finance these institutions, because they are users of services and that money that is given should be distributed precisely according to the number of service users, to make the service more quality. Also, I think the powers of the Minister and the Ministry are still very high, but I don't think that can in principle endanger autonomy. The question of the quality of teacher's staff has been resolved by Article 64, which speaks of conditions for selecting teachers. However, I had this idea that I wanted to say, I gave it up in one amendment, and it refers to who's going to grade the scientific work of the candidate. I thought that the assessment of the scientific work of the candidate for the election to call a doctor, an extraordinary professor or a regular professor should be given by the competent expert body of the Ministry of Science, according to the procedure laid down for the assessment of researcher's scientific work in the Law on Scientific Action. I think that this would balance the criteria and simply result in any doubt that these calls can be reached simply by sympathy, collegiation, familiarity with the people you meet every day and with whom you work. It's probably one way, with the introduction of competition of course, to increase the quality of teacher's staff. If a certain reform is carried out, I don't think a comprehensive reform is being carried out, it must not be done in a way that reflects the position of students most, and I think that in this law, at least initially, before some amendments are accepted, there are provisions that make the position of students significantly difficult. Of course, I agree with the fact that studying should be serious and that students should be serious, and that they can't easily take exams and things like that. But whether the student will easily pass the exam does not depend on how many deadlines he will have, nor does it depend on whether he is obliged to pass the exam immediately after the hearing lectures, but above all on what criteria the professor will apply. Here things are kind of upside down. If teachers apply strict criteria and really require the knowledge of those who appear before them, it doesn't matter if they have one deadline, one possibility of laying, two or three. So I think it's a good idea to accept an amendment that increases the number of deadlines when students can take exams, and also an amendment that doesn't require students to go to the exam right after hearing lectures. We need to understand that students in Serbia do not study in conditions such as those in the US, Western Europe. This is where students live a lot harder. Many of them work to support themselves. They are burdened with a number of problems and there is no need for me to elaborate in general how we live and what our situation is in society. We, then, can't expect such students to be completely committed to their work, to go to class only, and immediately after the lecture they go to the test deadline, it's one of the only test deadlines, whether they pass the exam or not, and if they don't, they no longer have the right or eventually have one more. It's not exactly in Serbia like that. It has to be liberalized and if we want to tighten up studies, start from the other side, start from tightening the conditions for choice in teaching calling and tightening the criteria that the teachers will give you when they come to the exam, and not from making it harder for students to be in this way, because if a criterion is low, then you will certainly pass from the first, regardless of whether you have a few more deadlines or not. So, in that sense, the law is also not good. I also have an objection to Article 75, which says that a teacher, or associate of a higher education institution, can conclude a contract that is employed in another higher education institution only with the prior approval of a professional body of a higher education institution within which a working relationship is based. A teacher can do this without any consent. There's no need to give him consent, because by the logic of it, the authority of a higher school institution won't let its professor go to teach some other students. He just won't give it to him, because that's how he's gonna want to keep that professor to himself, so he can attract students to himself tomorrow, and that's perfectly logical. But what does society get with this? Nothing. This gives them colleges, primarily the University of Belgrade and the colleges in Belgrade. Society gets nothing because professors from the University of Belgrade can't show up in Kragujevac, Nis or anywhere else where colleges or maybe universities are set up. There's no way they're seen by students who don't study in Belgrade. That's bad. And teachers are some kind of national treasure. They've made a lot of money for society. They have invested in themselves and their greatest function is to deal with scientific work and to share their knowledge with students. It should allow everyone to see the professors of the University of Belgrade and that these teachers can pass on their knowledge. So I don't understand why this restriction. This restriction will also, in a certain way, choke the private initiative, because there will be no possibility, we in Serbia do not have so many doctors of science and so much quality personnel, that other colleges are established and that people who can truly transfer their knowledge can appear on them. This is another reason that deeply compromises the reform course of this law on private initiatives. So maybe it's one of the greatest shortcomings in this law. But there's one more question left. The government has given amendments to which something is improving, here is Amendment 7 where the word "magistar" is replaced by the words "diplomic-academic". The government's argument is absolutely correct and it's good that it gives this amendment to Article 16 of the Law, in fact it doesn't matter, it all applies to the types and levels of studies, which is a member of the 25th Law, where it says - first-degree studies are basic academic and basic vocational studies, and the second are specialist vocational, specialist academic and master's academic studies. And it's a good thing it's changing master's to graduate and academic, and there's the government that gave one explanation that's completely true, but that argument that refers to the use of the name "master" is quite true and when it comes to the use of the name specialist. Because, to date, specialized studies have been in postgraduate studies, especially enrolling, especially buying a index, especially paying, especially going to lectures, exercises, etc. And it's particularly convenient. So I expect that tonight at 1800 hours we should consider this question, because absolutely everything that is stated in this explanation applies to what I just said and I think we should try to change something about it. The same applies to Article 123, where specialist studies are left out, where they are said that those who have started master studies can continue them and that within seven or five years, we in Belgrade have many specialist studies that started this year's studies and they are not mentioned here at all. There's really a question of what's going on with them. I suppose it's analoguely applied to the Master's Department, but it wouldn't be worse if the Committee were to intervene with the amendment itself and bring it in. Again, specialist studies were postgraduate studies and everything that was said for the master's de facto applies to them. So, eventually, the Democratic Party, as Professor Gašo Knezevic said, will support this law, it is a step forward. It was important to hear these criticisms too. The words of praise have been heard enough by MPs who support the government, but the DS thinks that, as far as it is a step ahead, it is small and perhaps not brave enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18401	Thank you. Does Snezana's MP Stojanovic-Plasic want the word? No, I don't. ) Does the People's Messenger want the word Dr. Goran Ilic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18402	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support the proposal for a law on higher education. We believe that this is a necessary law at this time and that it regulates an area that is a very important segment of our society. At the same time, higher education is also a very sensitive and complex segment of our society and hence the skepticism that can be heard in public from individual actors, somewhere from universities and colleges, individual ones, but like any newspaper, it may cause a certain amount of skepticism, but since I come from the university and have talked to my colleagues all the time in public debate, it seems to me that there is no reason to do so. Of course, newspapers cause a bit of anxiety, but they will help us to make our system of higher education more quality and efficient. Many questions arise, which directly refer to our system of higher education years ago. Do we have a large number of universities and universities, whether it's a large number of students enrolled, whether it's funding, we just heard about it, correctly if it's related to the number of students enrolled, for example, and of course some other problems that are listed, but what might be, for me, it certainly is, the biggest problem is the unemployment of our high school students. Our young people in the tension of their intellectual powers decide to study and devote a large number of years to it, and then often they do not have a job waiting for them, and they cannot apply and improve their social reality to all of us through their knowledge, and the knowledge they have brought from college, and the knowledge they actively adopt and after the university, today at the time of electronic communication daily. We remember time, some a little less because they were quite young, and some very well, what happened after the student demonstrations in 1968. Colleges have led to a multiple increase in the number of students. And then there was even a "social drawer" syntagma. So, young people got a chance to study so they wouldn't make trouble for the social system they were then. This law, of course, and a lot of things that happened before, but this law certainly cannot allow a young man who decides for higher education to have no chance, a chance for himself, and a chance to change the society in which he lives better. The university in this sense must become an active and influential segment of society. The relationship between society and the university must be interactive. So, the university will influence society, and society at university, to talk about how many students we need in certain student groups and what these people are going to do afterwards, and that the university's knowledge, which it achieves daily, affects that we change our social relations by becoming a modern and rich society. In that sense, there is no dilemma that we must become part of the European higher education zone. I think that the skeptic we heard here today was not sufficiently justified, because in 2010, which is mentioned, it's relatively close and we have to do everything, of course, by preserving our cultural, linguistic and national specificities, to become part of that European educational space. In that sense, all the institutions introduced by the law promise that our education system will be more quality and efficient, and as such become a segment of the European system of education. So, let's just say it might be some outside event, but the important thing is that our diplomas will have an English-language supplement, which will mean easier insight into the level and content of the study that that high graduate is carrying, which he mastered. All institutes, such as the National Council, which will establish standards for self-evaluation of quality, for external quality checking, for issuing work permits, etc., and this working body of this national council - the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, will necessarily lead to order being introduced into our higher education system and to align certain elements of that system. Of course, these are institutions that will not operate outside the general system and, of course, will benefit from the knowledge, suggestion and experience of the University Conference and will result in those solutions. The integration, which is mentioned in several members of this law, and defines, and articulates, is very important, because today, without connecting all forms of scientific activities, all scientific fields, there is no quality and efficient knowledge. This means that the students of medicine tomorrow will have their knowledge in physics and electrical engineering, for example. for the field of radiology, the ability to get in places where it's best known, right at an electrical or physical college, for example. This system that's going to connect colleges basically means a new quality. Of course, some college representatives worry that the fact that a legal person is often going to be a university for those who do not have three student groups will in some ways endanger the colleges. Of course, we also have to worry about that financial aspect. I guess there won't be any bigger problems. But what's a promising win right now is a great motive for this law to be passed. Of course, it is left to the university and special student groups to organize their internal organization and relations within them. It's a process. Transitional provisions setting out at least two years for the start of the internal organisation promise that there will be no major earthquakes. And we need to calm the public down that, in that sense, there won't be any more significant problems. The two-stage education system has also caused skepticism. There's been talk here about four years in medicine, three years in math, etc., it seems to me that these fears are premature. That'll work out. There's no reason to suspect that this is how well-conceived studies, and we have experience that we've adopted in the world, from different meetings, that specialist studies that start a highly educated young man earlier will make it more effective tomorrow when the studies are over. It's been a while since the class of the ex department, past the time of complete theoretical teaching, glamour material, the fat books students study themselves. An active, interactive relationship is needed, both teachers and assistants with students, continuous monitoring of student work, of course, the adoption of remarks that students themselves make and direct these knowledge towards what these people are going to do tomorrow. Why would a medical student learn all areas equally intensively, why after basic studies he did not biogain to surgical branches, to conservative medicine, to preventive medicine, and thus to save energy and time for what tomorrow was determined for what he would do tomorrow. The mobility that is defined and derived from this new credit system institute I think is good, that it will allow students to participate more actively in teaching and changing student groups when students themselves assess that they need it. Of course, we know that the monitoring of student pre-examination activities, defined here as the necessary activity of teachers and associates, defines the number of points, etc., is very important and will make studies much more effective. The very testing systems that we have introduced into our subjects have shown that students who have decided to participate actively in the debate throughout the pre-examination part of their activities, including before the exam, have led to a large number of students who, conditionally speaking, have not seriously approached the mastery of materials, giving up exams. One simple test that the previous oral part of the exam or the practical part of the exam consists of the number of candidates taking the exam at 20-30%. So, 60-70% of the students still haven't seriously decided to take the case down. When this system is introduced throughout the pre-examination period, so will those who are a little lazy somewhere at the beginning of the process. So words of activity, interactivity, dynamics, integration, are words that permeate this whole law and make it modern and high-quality and necessary at this point. Of course, there are education institutes for life, remote education, etc. And I would not speak of them in particular, for they are clearly explained in the interpretation of the law. In the end, I'd tell my fellow professors and professors not to be afraid of this law, if they had any skeptics over it. This law improves the system of higher education, and offers students a chance to make their education better. What I think is a key gain is that higher education has become and will become an important and more influential segment of our society. We have to take care of every single unemployed doctor, every single one of our unemployed engineers, give him a chance, and hopefully economic development will also make it possible to run the parallel. The possibility of being abroad, but of course, the chance yours will definitely take advantage of it sooner in the country if there is one, and that's what this law will do. Of course, not finally, it's the steps on that road, but we're on that road now definitely and from that road back there is no. So we become part of the European education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18403	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, before I conclude a principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18404	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidents of the Ministry, first of all, I want to tell you that, of course, I won't be using 10 minutes, because it's not 10 minutes left, it's something less, because I've been talking longer, and secondly, I'm going to say as long as it takes me to express what I'm going to do. Three things I would point out in this final address to this assembly. The first is the relationship between the founders and the university, in most cases with us it's the state and the university, because it's the founder of the state college, so that's the relationship. I am now in frequent contact with a Russian professor from former Lenjingrad, and now Petrograd, we are working on a joint project and often changing experiences about the university. He has a phobic fear of a centralized university. The explanation for this fear lies in the former practice of a communist party that controls, by centralising the university, therefore, has exercised control over it. He feels his past life as life under control and is therefore against a centralized university. I've been working for 25 years at a decentralised university, and I have the same negative experience of being decentralisationd. What's the problem now? The problem is that the state has one constant latent conflict with all those bodies that it founded, including the university. And this minister, and the future minister who comes and all future ministers will feel the problem that I felt when I was in that position, which is the problem of agreeing, or finding a common language with the university or partly managing the university to the extent that the state should even manage the university. The problem with the definition of autonomy is a very serious problem in this country. For a time in this country, the university was a character, let me say, the rebellion against one way to lead the country, and at that point, the university's employees were in line with the concept of autonomy. When that period is over, when we entered the second period, some no longer respond to that concept of autonomy and it is a serious problem. Therefore, what this law contains, and could have been more, is to define the relationship between founders and universities. Very often, the university will kidnap its founder, ask him only to pay his bills, not participating in the development of society, and the university is one of the levers for the development of this society. So I'm just drawing attention to the very sensitive issue of autonomy and defining its concept, and that's why I think it's much better to centralize autonomy than to decentralize it, because then you have 30 or 100, as long as there's already colleges in Belgrade, autonomous units, and this way you have correspondence with only one autonomous unit. It's one of the possible sightings of the problem, but I'm saying, I understand this other way of expressing my Soviet or Russian counterpart, anyway. The other thing I wanted to draw attention to, the minister said something about it, and that's good. It's a question of the government's commitment to the university in the future. Unlike the attitudes that are wrongly expressed here that the length of study decreases, it is not true, it continues. That goes on for a year. If the state is going to be serious, then the finance ministry is going to have to finance another year of study, because 3+2 is not the same thing as 4, because so far it's been law school 4, it's going to be 3+2 and that's 5. The economics was 4, it's going to be 3+2 and that's 5. And finally, to those who were scared of medicine, Article 29, the last attitude -- medicine still takes six years and let's not read the law without criticizing legal solutions. I ask you so much consideration for all of us, therefore, to read the law perus than we speak. Finally, a colleague who pointed out that I had said exactly the year of the establishment of the face, which is indeed true, presented the information that I would like to clarify. He spoke, this is fellow Mašić, and he is a veterinarian in education, and he spoke of biotechnical sciences or his teachings, that they are not systematicized in these fields. Please, the wider the field, the easier the possibility of employment, the point. It's the essence of things. The wider the fields, the easier our people will be to hire, the same ones who finished the wind, who finished agriculture and every other profession. That's what the "supplement" diploma is for, to know simply that the "sapplement" degree will include all those items that the student attended during the year, so that he can find his employer. So this is needed to make it easier for him to find his employer, because he will now influence the creation of his education and that employer will see from the addition of his degree what the student knows. So, wider fields, easier job opportunities, and don't get scared, because no one's out of the system, everyone's in the system. Thank you so much for this and for putting up with my address again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18405	I thank Mr. Knezevic. Here's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18406	I'm reporting for replication, and I'll be free to read that part of the 29th member -- academic studies from medical sciences can be organised integrated into basic and master's studies. The master's degree is academic. At six years of medical school, we get what's called a doctor. In order to be a master of science, I have two more years to finish my master's studies and defend my master's work. I would advise you to see what is at the last conference of the medical colleges of Europe in Zagreb last year as the conclusion that this should look like, to read a little bit more than this, and then to come and give us lectures. Please, your autonomy dilemma, which means autonomous, self-sufficient. That means autonomy. You've mixed things up, managed autonomy and academic freedoms, and you've mixed everything up. You want to make us a combination of 10,000 employees, it will be Belgrade University with 100,000 students. Come on, you realize your own rights and individual interests, to see how you're going to do it, and then you're going to introduce the SOURs, it's going to be colleges, it's your science, and theOURs are going to be your cathedrals. And you can't get rid of the past. You're turning yourself in for another man and a man of modern times, but your past is in principle and in what you represent, easy to expose. That's the point. Please, autonomy, it's clear what that means. When we talked about abolishing academic freedoms, how there's no freedom of speech and content, how it doesn't bother you, because you wrote this yourself. These guys are just napping and giving us here, and that's the point. One more thing I'm gonna say, don't tell us about the Russians. Many people in this country have pointed to these things, and I think that when we talk here, we should read the truth and the fact, not construct it. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18407	The replica was reported by Gašo Knezevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18408	I'm really gonna be brief. The colleague did not look at the amendments that were adopted and go as a composition, it is now an integral text of the Law. So, I think we have a duty to read everything. And I read it, so I said what I said about medicine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18409	I'm finalizing and finishing the original search. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18410	Dear MPs, thank you for your principled support of the Higher Education Act, which says that we were still right when we were at the beginning of our work, and that was 10 months ago, we tried to ask this issue exclusively as an academic issue, not as a party, ideological or political issue. This is today's session and has shown it as possible in Serbia and the Serbian Assembly. We now have to improve the text of the Law at 6 p.m. on the Educational Committee at this final stage, in the last day, the text of the Law to the amendments, as we have already agreed in the course of this debate or agreed with MPs Zivkovic, Obradović, Markovic and others who participated in the work, so that we remain consistent with ourselves and with this principle that we all work together on one common issue, regardless of party membership. Now let me say the three points that seem most important to me in this debate today, which have taken the most time, and which perhaps, perhaps, there are some of our faults, I apologize if there is, have also caused some confusion among MPs, as they have caused in public ten months ago, when ideas in the Law began to be discussed, of course, and people from different universities began to appear. What the MPs in the critical tone here said to each other, that is, those same deans and those law schools that were most frequently mentioned here came to me, there was no need to write me any letters. In this case, the Minister of Education's office is completely open to everyone, and MPs and opposition parties present here, there is no one among you who has waited more than 24 hours for reception. However, the fear that was justified in colleges has disappeared, the letters have disappeared, the reactions of the time the Deans, or the people of the colleges, realized that Serbia will retain its specificity, that it will not go too quickly and too quickly to go to some way that many European countries and many countries in the world have gone. The colleges will maintain their independence in what is most important in poor transition countries, which is a jury account. To be extremely open, the jury account has been the biggest problem all along, the most common issue, the existential question, I also understood it as a minister, although I didn't want to get too involved, because I wanted too much as a Democrats to protect the autonomy of the university, yet I did my best to make sure that the specificity of poor Serbia in which we live doesn't have to pay professors of those colleges who earn better, even though I regret those who earn less. I wasn't a supporter of an orderly, she reminds me of some previous decades in this country, and it just stayed that way for the next period. And with God's happiness and help, or happiness heroically, in 2-3 years we'll have one much more comfortable, economically, situation, which no one will ever mention in any college, and will be able to integrate the university or stay this way, or stay half as in some neighbouring countries. It won't be as vital as it is today. We just have to respect that, and there's no special policy here. It's called a piece of bread in Serbian, in a jargon bar. Furthermore, what's most important in this law, and what's not so much mentioned, is probably proof that it's good, because it's not criticised. If we were to imagine that Serbia is not in Europe, that it is completely remote, that it is completely isolated and that it does not participate in any international, worldly, European educational processes, and in this case, that we are somewhere in the vicinity of New Zealand, this law should be passed because of this essence which refers to a student and his professor working together all year, one semester or two semesters, depending on the tests, that this student is under control, that he is under care, under surveillance, with the great support of his professor and that 70% of this examination is actually passed through this individual work during the months of the school year. And then this final exam is not so hard or so fateful in a student's life, and that leads to it, this law allows students in Serbia to take a year after year because they have quality study and a teacher who can be more or less quality, but who is always there for them. Professor Simonovic is right when he says they are not worth the best laws without good professors. That is true, but here are the preconditions in the legal form, in the legal text, that our professors, among them extraordinary, and excellent, and very good, and there are also those who are not exactly like that, that they help students give year after year, that in Serbia they would not be like the average of nine years. Every serious nation thus protects its national interest and there are all nations serious, similar in defending this national interest, and if we in Serbia look like the rest of Europe, it doesn't need to be a problem and it doesn't need to worry us, it needs to be a compliment and a sign that we're on the right track. The third thing that was important as a topic is state, private universities, their relationship. I think this law treats each other equally. It's clear to everyone that private universities can't be banned, there's no reason to ban them. And in this area there must be competition, there shouldn't be a monopoly, as there should be in all other areas, but it's a common denominator, and that law needs to help, quality both. If we have high-quality private universities, that game will help the state universities fight to be as good as possible, so as not to lose self-financed students and the income they make out of it. And vice versa, pulling each other forward. If we didn't have private colleges, or universities, the state could bend the hat and do nothing, there's no competition. If we let thousands of small transistorial or otherwise fictitious private universities appear, then we've ruined generations, we're ruining the state for sure. You're right when you say, some of the MPs have mentioned that recently private universities have been running like mushrooms. I agree with you, I absolutely share an opinion with everyone who mentioned it. I don't think inflation or hyperinflation of these universities leads to anything good. However, I can file a report for my few months. I'm sorry, ever since it started talking about this law and when people saw that the law was really being written, and that it would really be in the Assembly, and that really in that area of higher education, the question was, in June, July, August, the order started, then one of the applications for the establishment of private colleges started. The Elaborates began to arrive at an incredible rate. Believe it or not, it was working weeks when 30 arrived. I can file a report for you, and I'll file for the few months I'm responsible for. About 100 requests have been filed, and we have approved less than 10, together with the Accreditation Commission, the Republic High Education Council. Even something they've approved as an elaborate, as a profession, we haven't given permission to work yet, because it's the ministry's job, and no matter what the profession has met the conditions, we're waiting for those who have passed, so less than 10, to meet those technical conditions. So it's more than a concern for order in this area, because we didn't allow it. I'm sorry, I can't answer that question and I'm not obliged to answer you, I share your opinion, if that means anything to you. Finally, to end up reminding me of one general place, no matter what law it is, and especially when it comes to such a law, which can be changed and should be changed as the practice dictates. For your information, some neighbouring countries are such a law, of course such laws everywhere in Europe have their national specificities, they changed such a law over the next year after adoption and five or six times, because practice dictated it. So any legal text can be changed and complemented, and it's desirable, it's not a sacred letter, but this law, please don't get that out of our minds, and that's important to our entire public, has been written by our entire academic community. I had no problem with universities, no state, no private, no autonomy. I politely invited them to my office because we promised since 1990 that all ministries would be public service and I might be naive, but I literally remembered it. I did that and they came, and as the most legitimate representatives of all the structures of the academic community, they ordered the text. The ministry was indeed a public service, so the project manager, logistics support and support in every sense, so first of all, in that literal democratic sense. This is the most concrete evidence, the most life-like proof of university's respect for autonomy, because today along with the Serbian Parliament, the Ministry, universities, they can say they will not have the ideal legal text, but that in Serbia the autonomy of the university is respected 100%, because even if we do not forget that in this country very much in the last decade and a half or a decade previous marches, demonstrated and, not pathetic, the autonomy of the university has affected me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18411	Replication of Mr Vuksanovic's presentation, MP Milet Poscuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18412	Ladies and gentlemen, I have before me the paper of those creators who formally created this law on the university, which formed a larger Belgrade university, so not a broad consensus, not all the rectors and all the deans, they may have been coming since 2003. These names are also seen on some other sites, those who supported the reform of the University of old, Professor Snezana Pantelić-Vujanić, the chairman of the commission, Dr Marija Bogdanović, you know the character from where he was known, Dr Ivan Juranić, Dr Bogdan Đuričić, Borisvoje Lazić, Sima Avramović, Nevenka Žarić-Joximović, Leon Kojen, Živan Lazović, Branko Medojević, Dejan Popović, Bozidar Cerović and Master Svila Zdravkovic, General Secretary-General of Belgrade University. So, the Belgrade University made itself, out of the order of elected professors, this kind of reform. That's clear, it didn't go through the so-called. a wide consensus, not so-called. a broad debate, a public debate which is the rest of some cardio, a self-government concept, from which you obviously suffer, and diseases, and persuasions uninterrupted, to convince yourself that something is good. That's the concept, these are the people you'll find on some other websites, and NGOs, and some others. Therefore, neither is it sustainable as a concept that it is a unanimous consensus, nor are individual arrivals with the minister in the cabinet rapper that something will be done that will be right, useful and above all in the national interest. That's exactly what we wanted to confirm and deny previous views, although what the minister said isn't standing and it's not extremely drinking, and that's why we are generally against this concept and we claim that these are simply not good solutions that you're offering us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-23-0.u18413	After we've completed our principle debate, I'm concluding a principled search and closing today's working day. Tomorrow, at 10.00 hours, we begin the debate on the 2nd item of the agenda - Amendments and additions of the Radio Diffusion Act. Thank you all for your responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records, I find that the session is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević and Bosko Ristic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RADIPHUSION LAW (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of constituency groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups of the Serbian Radical Party is one hour 37 minutes12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group one hour, three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - Boris Tadic 44 minutes, 24 seconds, the parliamentary group G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group 26 minutes 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9+9 21 minutes 36 seconds, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group -- four MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, two SDP MPs, two independent MPs per five minutes, based on Article 93rd paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives of this agenda point -- ahead of the Democratic Party of Serbia Vukosav Tomasevic, ahead of the Democratic Party Milan Stanimirovic, in front of G17 plus Aleksandar Lazarevic and in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Zoran Angelkovic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
