ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20663	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall, in agreement with Article 84, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Dusan Prophetic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Security and Health Safety Law (principle search) The word has a National MP, Živodarka Dacin, and let Rodoljub Gačević be prepared. One notice, before I give you my word, the 31st session of the Committee on Culture and Information is scheduled for Monday, October 24, 2005, in the second floor hall, starting at 13.30 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20664	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work is, in fact, one of those legislative proposals that is necessary to comply with international legislation in order to fully harmonise all legal acts and thus facilitate our way into the European Union. Of course, there are a large number of laws in all these sessions that are sometimes very often for all of us to accept and adopt, because for a reason we write a large number of amendments and try to adapt these laws to the conditions in which we currently live. However, this bill, as well as the one from the previous agenda (Proposal of the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports), represents, in fact, laws that really shouldn't be a big dispute whether they should be adopted or not. On the contrary. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, primarily because it deals with the protection of workers in their jobs. It was one basic and principled course that the SPS policy had, which it had and which it would always have. So, when the law itself is analysed, it would be said that employers will have one serious obligation, because they will need one serious part of the financial resources to invest, to ensure workers in their jobs and thus protect their health. Of course, the question is, what's more expensive? Everyone in health care, and even in the people there is one wing, that 'better to prevent, than to heal', and therefore it is certain, however significant financial separations by the employer, better to invest in the safety and health of their workers than, in the end, not only the worker, his family and the complete society, that he has a diseased man above all, and the other, that large financial resources go where we least want to go, and that is to treat the same. For what? Because of the negligence and irresponsibility of an employer. This law is, like all laws that come on the agenda, consistent with the time in which we live. This is how it is mentioned here for the first time that the employer is concerned, whether it is a foreign or our citizen, also refers to the worker, whether it is a foreign or our citizen. Of course it's clear what this is all about, because, simply, in these few years, where there's a huge privatisation, we're aware of the fact that an increasing number of foreigners are buying our factories. Of course, they bring their people to work. But regardless of whose citizens they are, of course, they must follow the same laws that all our citizens, or our workers, are acting under. What's good about this law? Not only because, first of all, of the prevention of the protection and safety of the health of workers, a person appears here who, practically, should be a representative of the employees in communication with the employer. The task of such a person is, above all, to educate employees, to explain to them how to use protective means, to preserve themselves and thus to preserve their health and, on the other hand, to communicate with the employer in cases where there are problems; that they can tell the employer what it is to do to protect the worker. Of course, that person can't be everyone, that person has to be strictly professional and competent and for that person's expertise and competence, if he is, he'll get a license to work on. Also, it is planned that, if it is done, although I have to say lately, in some good old times we have had large factories where several thousands were employed, even tens of thousands of workers, but today, either there are none, or there are very few, but if there are companies, where there are a large number of employees, there can also be established a Committee on Safety and Health at Work, where, of course, all that work is not able to do one man, but to organize more of them through the board. It seems to me that Article 5 here is something that is very good, because Article 5 says that it is the employer's obligation to provide and protect under the same conditions and all those who come, so to speak, for temporary work in a particular company. There is thought of students and students who may be coming to do some practice, there is thought even of internships, there is thought of those who are actually retraining their profession, whether or not they will probably not stay in that firm to work, they have the same legal protection as they are employed in a particular company. I'd say something else that's very positive. Here the law speaks of special security and care for the health of one of the most sensitive groups of employees, which are young, women, people with disabilities and people who are professionally ill. I would say that here may have been a little bit more work to do on this subject, but given the fact that the minister in his opening statement said that, after the adoption of this law, practically, a series of sublegal acts will be drawn up, we in the SAA really expect this segment to be worked out as much as possible, given what sensitive category of employees it is. Finally, there's something, we'll say, and so far we've had the Act on protection at work, and so far we've had some legal obligations, so did we act by it? I have to, and I want to point out a positive example from Kickinda. You've all heard well, it's a Banini cookie factory, which is before privatisation, and even today when it's privatized and how it lays artis by all standards invests in the protection and safety of the health of its workers. And today, when it is a private company they and how they make a few health checks on their employees, without saving on that financial means because they are young, wise and smart people and they are aware that only a healthy man can make a business and that only a healthy man can work on the general satisfaction of his family and his family, of course, his companies and thus make a great profit. I would like everyone to behave like this and not only need laws, and it is a sincere desire for all employers to act in harmony with this law. This is a law that applies, of course, to all employees, although I would say when I read that it gives the impression that this more applies to employees in the economy, industry, in construction, and it seems to me a little less an accent on people, which we are used to saying are working in unrequited activity, i.e. education, health and culture. I understand why this area of protection of people working in construction has been so elaborated. First of all, fortunately, we see today that Serbia is one big construction site, building residential buildings in many towns in Serbia. All of us who travel daily from our places to the congregation see that many roads work, repair, and make new detours, and that is good. But unfortunately, we are all aware of the fact that in a relatively recent time we have had several sad and unfortunate outcomes just the construction worker. Why? Probably because they weren't secure enough and their employers didn't think about the safety and health of their workers. Of course it should stop. Of course, no matter where he works, he must have maximum security from his employer, and then he'll go to work. Is the construction operation ready for all of this, probably not so far, but I expect to adopt this law and present everything that is in the interests of the workers. As for the economy, unfortunately, in the last few years, I would say that today we still do not have the economy, and that is why there has been virtually no significant financial expenditure on employers or in those basic things for our workers, not in providing protection funds in the interests of employee health. Of course, I am an optimist, and I want to believe that soon there will be real expansion and the momentum of our economy, because that is the only way we can raise the standard of our citizens and, of course, the standard of our country, which is really in our best interests. As we have adopted the Law on the Protection of the Environment, where we have said that anyone who starts, no matter how clean or dirty the technology that a factory uses, must and how serious the funds to invest, to provide filters to protect the entire population in the territory on which that factory works, and also here to start a factory, indeed, no one must accept that it starts working before ensuring the health of all those who work and who will work. Why do I say that this part of education, health and culture seems to be neglected? Because in the part of the law, which speaks of financial resources, it is said that the application of this law does not require any additional funding – I would agree with that because it already exists in the Republic of Serbia's budget, I would agree in the part relating to the financial resources needed for the work of inspectors and inspectorates, which will verify the conductability of these laws in part. But I'm asking you, who's an employer at school? Who's the health employer? We all know there are executives out there now in some of the latest tenders who want to be called, or at least they should be, managers. But the point is who's the employer, then the budgets. Whether the local self-government budget, whether the province's budget or the Republic's budget, is nevertheless, but these are significant funds that should be invested in these institutions. I'd like to say something about schools, preschools, elementary and high schools. We are all aware of the fact that unfortunately, if it is set, the working environment, which this law also speaks of, is very bad, that the hygiene conditions are bad and thus directly endangers all the employees of schools and health institutions, not to mention the danger that threatens the arrival and use of these institutions of all our loved ones, or finds children. What's the reason? Elemental failure to maintain the hygiene of rooms, not because someone doesn't want to or won't, but simply, the answer is that they don't have the money to buy disinfectants; then one disinfectant 'drop by drop' is scattered and used by who knows how long or not used at all. The answer of one such director is that he actually doesn't have the money and that's why he can't buy certain hygiene funds. If I compare, say, the situation in health care, where and now there are rules that require protection for the safety of health at work, let's look the facts in the eyes – when was the last time health care professionals got uniforms, which is absolutely their protective clothing? Then, when did they get protective shoes? Does everyone get disposable gloves to work? Whether everyone who works in emergency services or home care treatments, departments, surgical blocks, gynaecological etc. They have exactly what they should have to have to protect themselves and, of course, those they come in contact with. There are a large number of employees who have really been professionally ill precisely because in some troubled times there were not enough resources to protect these same ones. I would really like to think here too that the directors at the head of health institutions are not in a position to say they don't have enough money. One is the responsibility of workers if they do not use all these means of protection, and they themselves are causing and endangering their health. So it seems to me that there may be more attention to it, or maybe there's a way that it's planned to finance this part where, in fact, employers don't come from another sector, but from what's left on the state level. The SPS parliamentary group, of course, will vote for this bill. The only thing I want is for both the Minister and our country, and all of us, to have this law brought to life absolutely, because we need to be aware that without a healthy man there is no healthy work, no healthy production, no production movement and no progress for the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20665	The word has a folk MP, Rodoljub Gačević, and let Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the presentation of Mr. Minister at the last session was quite convincing, it seemed quite sincere and likable, however, denied by some basic facts of this text of the law. In particular, when speaking about prevention and co-operation between the Union of employers, representative trade unions, inspection bodies, etc., it is impossible to build co-operation on the basis of trust, when it is provided for under such criminal provisions, as sanctions. This in some way denies this fact, and on the other hand the fact that this text of the law was written a year ago, and only now in the assembly procedure points to so much concern of the Ministry when it comes to the protection of work, that is, the Law on Safety and Health at Work, whatever we call it, in fact, it's a former law on protection of work. It treats the same matter, the second is that it's as defined as a title. In my opinion, this law is as important as the Labour Act itself. Protection measures at work are as important as work itself, if not more important. This law clearly shows that the causes of many professional illnesses, injuries at work, etc. have not been removed. Therefore, it is unlikely that the consequences will be removed either. The consequences will continue to arise, just as they have been before. They'll continue with that trend of injury at work. They may have been reduced in the last few years because the economy has been weak, but if the economy is revived, if better conditions are created for the economy, then they will continue with major labour injuries, with professional diseases, the funds will continue to be burdened and the pension-inhabited fund will be even more burdened, and the consequences will remain. It's like this law goes hand in hand to insurance companies and it's written for insurance companies. In practice, it is recommended that as many workers as possible be provided with insurance companies, so as to take less care in a company, i.e. an employer, in order to disburse other funds, etc. Let it be ensured, so let the others take care of it, let it solve the consequences, not cause it to be solved, on that principle, approximately, like that TV commercial: "Move out of place". I don't mean you, Minister. So the main thing about this law is that there is really no prevention. It cannot be truly made and done, and it is going in that direction, unless it is done on the principles of an alienation as a culture, as discipline, as working habits, let's say, using protective equipment, by taking over protection from workers, that the worker takes it as a discipline, as a culture, simply to become part of a permanent habit, to be built into a worker. I'm convinced that 50% of the workers are not only working for eight hours, but 16 hours at work. Half at some employer's, half in private. That's what happened before. The largest number of labour injuries I claim occurred in a private job, outside of working hours and out of work space, and it was placed under that provision, as if there had been an injury in the workplace, mostly on the route from the house, or the apartment, to the company and back. That's usually how it's been subdued. These causes were created where appropriate protection measures were not applied at work, where it did not enter into culture, in the habit of using it, but the worker rejected it. Why does a worker reject and not apply these means of protection at work? First, work protection is carried out, first of all, preferably as collective protection. If not, personal protection shall be applied. The means of personal protection, in principle, should protect workers from the most likely injuries at work and those most common, not all possible injuries at work. Otherwise, if we were to be guided by this principle, the worker would be burdened with enormous protective equipment so he wouldn't be able to carry it. So loaded with protective equipment wouldn't even look like a worker anymore. That would be more of a distraction policy than it would help him. For example, a construction worker should have helmets, protective gloves, protective boots, but does not mean that he can't stab himself on a nail or anything else, in his stomach, in his back, etc. That's why he doesn't need a skeleton, a bra, vests, etc., of all possible causes to provide him, of all possible injuries at work. He simply sees it as shackles, as disciplines, as a burden. When there's no direct control over him, from a direct manager, above all, and later I'll say why it should be left to the direct manager, he'll take it off, spread out. Most of the time, there are injuries, because he's completely freed himself of all these obligations and, of course, because of his indiscipline. According to my assessment, discipline is 90% the cause of all injuries at work and illness. If absolute and good discipline, means of personal protection and means of general protection at work would hardly be necessary. So if you were to look at this, you'd have to use that equipment on purpose, celery, as much as you really need at a job. However, as shown in Article 24, the employer is said to take all measures of protection at work, security, etc. This points to the fact that there's an inspector who's predicted a lot of measures, more to fence himself, and that he says – I predicted, wrote, prescribed, and that employer will say – I got that equipment, he's got that equipment, but he doesn't use it. So there's going to be one chain wheel, so you don't know what's causing it, what's the consequence, that just, without solving the causes, we have the constant consequences of work injuries. On the other hand, for example. says instructions should be translated into Serbian. That's not why the number one is put in Article 24. – and it does not matter much whether it is translated into Serbian if the worker is shown directly in the workplace that the work equipment is being used; it is shown and then his knowledge is being tested, so if he knows that he is using that equipment, then he will also get a solution to deploy to the right workplace. So, he needs to know, not that after one of the inspection bodies said he had no translation instructions into Serbian, and that's why there was an injury, etc. It is nice to listen to the issue of protection at work when it comes to co-operation, i.e. prevention between inspection bodies, i.e. representative trade unions and the Union of employers, i.e. employers. It can't be built on the principles of punishment. It is clear that the employer is the most responsible because it is in its power to exercise control, control and assume the obligations of labour discipline, overall labour discipline and use of means of protection at work. However, punishing both the worker and the employer themselves creates a completely different relationship. One co-operation cannot be created under this principle, because the employer will transfer those penalties or bans to workers, punish workers, but this problem will not continue to be solved. So, you need honest co-operation as a prevention. How can you do that? This can be done in such a way that everything provided for, the application of medicine work, industrial psychologists, in a way more close to the employer, the direct business manager, to a master, to a shifter, to a manager, does not matter what we call him, who must be a psychologist, a pedagogist, an instructor, a manager, and that he has every moment in mind where there is a worker, to constantly control their presence, their application of means of protection, that he can always control, to prevent it from bringing alcohol to the workplace to drink, and unless he is there to see every moment he cannot exercise control. When viewed as a frame, and thus defined as a man of knowledge, experience and work habits, and what is worth knowing if he does not have these two characteristics. That's why there's going to be injuries, and most of the time they happen right now by having no direct control, not punishment. What is worth punishing if it is determined 10,000 for a worker who has not applied the means of personal protection, and by means of fines, in the light of small profits, it will not be achieved much if it is not simply prevented, it has made it impossible to use funds, to be under constant control, not punishable. By punishing workers, his family is punished. So the manager knows the workers best and knows if the worker is capable of the job. It is necessary to build such a relationship that when a worker comes incapacitated for work, and that can happen to each of us, he honestly tells the manager that he is not capable of work today, that he should give him some help job and, to build such a relationship, not ruin it. This relationship will not be made if there are sanctions and if it is known that a measure will be taken. There won't be any honesty to that co-operation. It will only be based on reconciliation—then the worker will respect the manager, apply the means of protection at work, because at any time he will have confidence, have such a relationship, and thus in some way create a culture of using the means of personal protection. I would still suggest that the HTZ tax exemptions be made, and as far as I know there is a tax as well as other purchases 18%. In the past, HTZ taxes were abolished, so it was then increased to 14%. Therefore, it should be possible for the employer to obtain protective equipment at affordable prices. All this stuff I've been saying, Mr. Minister, there's nowhere in the textbooks. All of this I gained as an experience for 31 years of work in direct production, in everyday relationships with workers, and I saw that the best results were given by these methods of trust. I suggest that you return this law to the upgrade, install these principles and these principles that I was talking about: trust, co-operation. It will be one real European law on protection at work, not for you to prescribe German laws and make this look like Hamlet's play.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20667	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević, and have Nikola Todorovic prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20668	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a law on safety and health at work. The law is good. The G17 plus parliamentary group will also support the voting day for the bill. In his work, the Institute of Medical Works experts Dr Dragomir Karajovic from Belgrade, the Faculty of Protection at the Work of Nis, representatives of representative trade unions, as well as NGOs, the Alliance for Protection at Work of Serbia and representatives of the Union of Employers of the Republic of Serbia took part. The G17 Plus MPs will support this law first of all because they think of the workers, and we're all in our jobs. Before I mention the paper passed by this law, I feel obliged to explain some of the terms as a specialist in medicine, given that many discussions are in some way confusing because there is a change of concept, including a replacement of thesis. The injury, it's a socio-medical problem for every country, including our country. The definition of work injury has a lot to do. One of them is Heinrich's story that the accident was an unforeseen and uncontrollable event, in which the action and reaction of one object, matter, person or radiation resulted in injuries to a person. Labour injuries are a special continent, have legal and social significance and consequences for workers, according to his family and production. A large number of working days are lost every year due to work injuries. The intensity of injury and illness depends on and the size of the consequences, ranging from the disease to the temporary inability to work, decreases in working ability usually permanently, resulting in changes in workplaces, possible loss of work ability, as well as physical damage, violation of the physical integrity of workers. The most severe outcome of a work injury is the death of a worker. Based on epidemiological data, we can't always reliably interpret the occurrence of injury because the decline in the number of these injuries in one period which, fortunately, is behind us and I hope that we can never repeat ourselves by reducing the volume of production in all businesses and disorderly reporting injuries, which is a major problem. The 2004 data on the territory of the Republic of Serbia indicate that there were 848 injuries at work, of which: 69 fatal injuries and 759 serious injuries. For 2005, eight and a half months of the current year, there were 625 injuries at work, of which: 25 with fatal outcome, 587 major injuries. The most vulnerable branches of economic activity are forestry, water, construction, industry and agriculture. Mortal outcomes occur most often in water, transport, construction and agriculture. So much so that we know that injuries don't only happen in construction, although unfortunately we hear about them most often. As far as non-economic branches are concerned, labour injuries are the most common in traffic. It has been observed that they are usually more injured and that more deaths occur in male workers. The human factor has the greatest importance in hurting at all, even in professional traumatism. Certain facts of binding to man and having importance in connecting are: years of life, experience, therefore, a certain level of knowledge, adaptation, pain of acute and chronic diseases, physical defects, physical characteristics and personality of workers. Environmental factors are also important and we can mention: interpersonal relations, organisation of work, condition of machines, devices and tools. So there are the conditions under which the work is done, the protection measures applied and the working conditions. Furthermore, failure to comply with established instructions for performing business is one of the causes of injury. Disrespect of recommended protection measures, non-use of personal protection funds, the problem of alcoholism, too, must not be ignored. Labour injuries can be classified according to the way the injury occurred, according to the material cause, cause of the injury, nature of the injury and localisation of the injury. The prevention of professional trauma is very complex, it represents a comprehensive programme and a series of coordinated activities aimed at controlling all factors that can be caused by injuries to work. There we should not forget neither economic solutions nor ignore the prevention measures related to human factors, technical protection measures, organisational protection measures, hygiene and personal protection. Medical protection measures would cover previous and periodic checks, professional selection and orientation, as well as contraindication for working with certain harmfulities. So, medical and professional rehabilitation, recording work injuries, regular application, professional training and skills acquisition, social protection, the diet of workers and jobs with special working conditions. Professional diseases are diseases, certain diseases caused by the longer and direct impact of the process and working conditions on jobs, or work tasks performed by the insurance company. The reduction and loss of work capacity, physical damage and death can be caused by diseases that are not specific to jobs and cannot be directly linked to jobs, but to general living conditions. That's how we get work-related diseases, multicausal sugenesis, and they're not specific to a particular profession. There we can mention increased blood pressure, heart disease, chronic non-specific organ diseases, locomotor system diseases, and behavioral disorders. Many are the advantages of passing this law. One of the papers to be welcomed is the introduction of compulsory employee insurance for damages caused by injuries to work or occupational illness. In Norway, each employee is obliged to make up 2% of gross personal income, so that in the event of injury, the deficit is adequately compensated. It should also be mentioned that this law applies to all employers and to all employees in the state and private sector, which is not previously respected, both by employers and employees. The first is the right to safe and healthy working conditions for all persons who find themselves working, and even for those who are on the ground, or for students who are in regular student practice. The obligations of the employer and the employee are clearly defined, but equally the general criminal policy, the possibility of gradually removing the deficiencies and implementing the recommended measures by professional and professionally trained persons, which is a newspaper in our new law, the right of the employee to be informed, but also without consequences of leaving the workplace if conditions are acquired in the workplace, if it would adversely affect his health and could potentially lead to injury. The aim of this law is to prevent labour injuries, occupational diseases in relation to work and bring them down to the minimum possible extent, assess the risk of labour injuries and occupational diseases in the workplace, apply preventive measures to eliminate these risks. The expected result of this law will be a gradual reduction of labour injuries, as well as professional illnesses. The human effect of this law is certainly in the first place, but they are not negligible nor material savings. The application of the law will cause more money to remain in small and medium-sized enterprises, and above all I think of the money used to compensate the damage caused by injury, unless there was such a law. Also, there will be a gradual reduction in health, pension and disability insurance costs. Let us consider this law as one of the instruments of poverty reduction. The passing of the law will meet another goal that is first in all medical work specialists, to present diseases and prevent disability and monitor the patient until his natural retirement. One, given the circumstances, marginalized branch of medicine, or medicine work, will take a place that belongs to the satisfaction of the workers, and let us not forget that we are all in our jobs. The law is good and necessary to bring it. MEPs G17 plus will support and vote for this bill. Let us not forget that here in the Republic Parliament we are all representatives of the citizens. They expect us to work in their interest. We invite you to pass this law in the day to vote by consensus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20669	The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will briefly concentrate on a few things. So, the law on protection at work – for me was a good law before, clearly defined, was not applied for reasons of various difficult situations, regardless of what branch it was and was not the reason to pass a new law with a new name, some new name. I would particularly resent the promoter for that name, because if that is the reason to change the name of the law for entering Europe, I might accept that – safety and health at work, it looks like a phrase to me. The protection of work is a very clear and specific concept. There are colleges, institutes, there's a science that deals with this business. So, protection at work, environmental protection, environmental protection, and it is quite clearly acceptable to explain the concept that is comprehensive, a little vague, but I don't know why it was necessary to change that law, it had to be translated all because of Europeans, or explain that what they had, and it's called different. I'll just say one detail where I would draw attention to how much translation and ignorance of certain substances are going, reshaping the text of Articles 2 and 6 of the existing Law in that part of which you called prevention, in Article 7. You have well defined the terms, explained the terms, not a joke, but as much as it goes into some inconclusiveness, (Article 4.) in point 10, where you explain certain terms of what it means, and you say, "The dangerous substances are explosive, flammable, oxidizing, poisonous, nasty." I didn't get this bad idea, whoever asked, the promoter wrote it. I know there's a unit of measures for radiation damage, if it's humidity, if it's temperature, if it's pollution in the middle of certain gases, but I don't know what your unit is for "disgusting." When you write something like that, you can see that it's not written by people in the profession. It's not a joke, I'm serious. I have the impression that these regulations we had were well done, defined, clear. This law was passed in 1991, and a series of changes were made, which followed in 1993 twice in 1994 and 1998. Kade's law was written, it was explained that the employer's obligations were very well done, and I don't even mind that you have now called the work-protection reference the person for safety and health at work; the work-protection reference known to the term and the exact particular school-prepared, the passing of an expert exam, certain knowledge that he is engaged and responsible – if he does not enter the plant, does not check the technical line, does not check the conditions governing the production hall, release the drive, is being threatened by a prison sentence as a criminal offense. You call it for some reason a person for security and so in this context everything doesn't bother, even if you translate it as badly as you translated it and reformed it, if it will be applied and if you will provide enough resources, supervision of authorised authorities, inspections that the process of work must not be released without having all of this that certain regulations, standards, sciences don't prescribe and what it has prescribed, and that in the check it doesn't realize that the conditions for starting work have been met. All mistakes, I come from mining, I know the very difficult conditions of working in mining, it's a lucky thing that a large number of injuries at work aren't finished with the fatal outcome of what conditions we've been working on. It is good for you to say Ministers – we have now included the union, including employers, so we will make a nice arrangement here. When it comes to team regulations, there's no deal, negotiations. You have a description that defines, has strict control that these conditions are met. I know a little factory around here, in the middle of where I live, in 1978, put into work, hired about 80 young women, and made them disabled. They work with very dangerous toxic substances like trichloroethylenes. They haven't sent workers for a systematic review in 20 years. They don't have a fan in the hall. There's an operating temperature in the hall depending on the outside temperature. Letty warms up the sheet, so it's 40 degrees. Imagine evaporation, easily evaporative matter, which permanently damages the brain, without ventilation. Imagine that in the hall the temperature is like the outside. If the temperature is below zero in winter, then it's in the hall, the hall isn't heating, it's not turning on the fan. And then the inspector comes along, makes a record, finds out, to intervene, to sue, to try to protect his health. Writes punishment, fines to some small punishment, (although it is, for example, in the Labour Act, remember earlier, the earlier text, not the last one, were about 200,000 fines, at least 200,000 fines, if the employer did not respect certain measures in the field of health at work) – the penalty was 3,500 dinars, employers, directors of the release of responsibility, although they did not write the application against active directors, but the directors who had worked for the past 10-15 years, and none had invested a dinar for protection at work. Let me just say one example. The factory produces 100,000 units, mainly for the European market. It is made in a village in Milanovac and is stamped by some factories from Germany, France, Croatia, from some other countries, as if the product was produced by them. Why is that with us? Nothing is invested in protective means, in protection measures, in working environments, in environments. Cheap labour and come to make this product with us – exports, and in this case the directors are very ruthless or incompetent or selfish, I don't know how they determine, negotiate that price of the product when they export. This country must respect the protection of the environment and the environment and invest something in protection measures at work – when they negotiate and negotiate the labour price, have them ask for some dinar to invest in that protection, funds, because we must respect regulations, not only Europe, Germany, Italy, France etc. It is no accident that this product is made in just one village in Majdanpek, an environment in Milanovac, is not an accident, because there is the cheapest, there are not workers the most productive, most qualified, most professional to make this product the best in us. Don't play anywhere in Europe, because it's dirty technology. I told you this story on purpose, Minister. In recent days, passions have been arousing, because there are still some directors, officials from that DOS, when crisis headquarters were set up, they became executives, so now the privatisation process is under way, there are preparations to privatise and sell these factories, and there's a big showdown of workers. Imagine a worker who refuses to work under impossible conditions – threatening to be fired. It has to meet the labour standard, it has to in conditions where toxic matter is very present, it must not refuse a work assignment, and there is no measure of protection at work. At the invitation of the workers, I just want to draw attention to this detail, there's got to be serious problems, the Bora inspection was the other day. It was devastating that I was informed by workers that an inspector from Bora complained that there was no gas, no money, the ability to come to see the complaints of the workers, for harassing the director. They asked the workers to pay for their transportation, which they did in this last case. Your names don't matter, you know how many inspectors you have in Bor, who were, they charged for the arrival in Majdanpek in Milanovac, from the workers they were looking for. They advised the employer how to miss, mistakes in the process, correct. They went with the directors to lunch, and normally, the workers remained dissatisfied with their intervention and very untrustworthy of the fair outcome of the inspection report. If because of the difficult working conditions, the inability to repair a state-owned factory, I'm telling you this because this is all a state-owned factory and you don't respect regulations in state-owned factories. Whether it's a board president or someone else, the inspector or the judge or the prosecutor can't intervene because it's someone from the state government who needs to do something. Indignation is with both the people and the workers. In state-owned enterprises, state authorities do not take measures; then the employer and inspector who has to come to the intervention are agreed, then I don't know how many interventions, so stop the factory, so clean, Wednesday, stop the manufacturing process, and normally, the conditions are different than when the process is under way. In order to show the state of things differently than it is, they asked me, as a MP, I will not read to you now, how complicated the matter is, how much the science is about the severity of working conditions, so the responsibility of the Minister of Health, the responsibility of the Minister of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, and the benefits of work where the internship is accounted for with increased duration, how complicated it is when it comes to the place where the categorization of places of work is determined by psychological burden, by physical burden, by biological burden. When everything is taken into account, self-initiative, burden, emotional tension, concentration of attention, muscle work, cardiovascular functions, calorific consumption, when the dangers associated with working conditions, the health status of workers, the physical burden of workers, the responsibility at work, the psychological burden of workers due to the organisation of work that is under way, the impact on the production effects of the work organisation, the expertise, qualifications and everything else, when all of this is taken into account, and you know that the employer can put on the list that you are a worker whose work has stopped working need and that you will lose your job – under which stress, under which difficult conditions these workers are working, if they have no protection of the state authorities, then that is something that is darkest, the worst that can happen in conditions where we try to bring order, to have regulations, whether it is called one or another, is less important. We'll learn these new names, not a problem. It is important to apply, essence and seriousness in accepting regulations and responsibilities. Imagine how responsible the Director is in the current law, not taking measures. I'm telling you again, it's fortunate that our economy isn't working, it's not happiness from the aspect of economics, social importance, but from the aspect of the chances of injury, etc. Otherwise, there would certainly be far more loss of health, injury, because there are no means of protection measures at work, not investing in protection at work. Directors are now big beasts, waiting for privatisation, it lasts a year, two or five, and nothing is done. Then you can imagine what conditions workers work on, how they are harassed by irresponsible people in their desire for personal ambition or use. I can't figure out that the inspector was asking for money from the employee who asked for his intervention, and he took the money. Isn't it possible for the state to provide conditions for the inspector to go to the field, to have a vehicle, to have gas stamps, to eat lunch, not to have to go to the opponent's side for lunch, to create doubts about whether he'd be objective or not? I wanted to tell you so much, but the details don't make any sense to bother you, I have contributions from workers from that factory, where the details are explained; I'm going to make a copy, so I'm going to give it to you. It's good to get involved. There's a report a year ago, the prosecutor can't run it, because the factory would have been shaking from the ground, someone would've been stuck in jail. Workers are not meant to arrest someone, but to force irresponsible executives to apply protection measures at work. They were police inspectors, they took the data, they took all the medical records in several health centers – Bor, Majdanpek, Belgrade, Zaječar, the largest number is being treated with neuropsychiatrists. You're talking about protecting your health because of bullying, shagging, when someone's mentally ill. In which way you will protect their health. Most of these workers are treated in neuropsychiatrics due to severe brain damage, due to these diluents; the barrel is open, one worker has broken out of barrels into a bottle into the intestine, as wine or raki from the barrels is passed over, does not know what it is, is not referred to as a threat to matter. There are no prescribed measures in the factory that a worker knows what kind of matter it is, how dangerous and potentially first aid is in the event of contact with that dangerous substance, which is toxic. Some resins from imports, no declaration, no translation, were released for use, and there are no instructions for handling these resins. I told that story, you have a lot of that evidence. The evidence is in the police, located at the prosecutor's office in Majdanpek, at the factory. The inspectors were supposed to be working, one of the inspectors quit and fled from Bor because of these things. All you have to do is get into the factory, register the founding state, and everything will be clear to you how that factory works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20671	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20672	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take a brief look at the principle of this law. What matters, however good any law is, is very important to how control is carried out. There are fire extinguishers in many institutions and factories. If the inspectors visited Belgrade today, if we didn't move on, they probably wouldn't have found half of those machines that were right. There are employers, and unfortunately for employees, some leniency in this regard, how to use the means needed, and many funds are built in, not only fire extinguishers, but other means of protection, which we must worry about always being correct, without ever using them, but at any moment they must be fully correct. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, and this should be taken into account. Then, I had a chance to get into some factory halls, where it's done in the winter months at very low temperatures. Or, if you enter the foundry, there is another kind of problem again – high temperature. Are they dressed properly? In those halls, I saw glass broken, wind blowing, terrible conditions. Then there's the noise in the factory halls. How many times a year do you measure noise? It's a very dangerous phenomenon for indoor employees. So the law is good, detailedly processed, necessary, but it must be accompanied by one detailed control, primarily education of those who need to apply the law. Not bad to print some cheap little booklets for employees, in a popular way, so they can read how to protect themselves in the workplace etc. It should also make sure that projects, whether designing a business building or designing a production plant, projects must provide for and draw protection at work, what equipment is needed and what is needed from the devices to be provided for people who live or work inside. It's all important stuff. I always told my students – when you calculate a machine, put your signature below it, you are very responsible. If that machine falls apart and the worker dies, you'll go to jail. Therefore, this must be taken extremely seriously, for it can have serious consequences for those who use various devices, machines, etc. Not to mention working conditions where very dangerous chemical resources are used, then in health institutions, which was spoken of by a colleague from the SPS, etc. I have a little remark, I haven't been able to write the amendment, which would probably have been accepted, referring to Article 5(2). So, students and students when they find themselves in compulsory production work, etc. Why only then? And when they are in the classrooms, amphitheaters; this is their place of work, therefore, and there they should be protected. Take, a full amphitheater, can fire; similarly, in classrooms. Therefore, it should be said – students who are present at the teaching, production work, practice, that that part should also be included when they are on the course, and then they should be protected. I didn't write this amendment, and I don't think it's much of an objection, because there's a reference to laboratories here, etc., so it can be assumed that they're in the workplace and when they're in their listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20673	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20674	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the situation, the Haradinaj case which was won by the UN tribunal by freedom and political action, and on the other hand, Mr Seselj has been in the case for more than two years, and neither has Prime Minister Kostunica done anything, nor has anyone from Serbia. Therefore, I am dissatisfied because I also expected the Serbian Radical Party to act as those 23 MPs in the previous term under Vojislav Seselj's command. I am dissatisfied with Tomislav Nikolic for failing to organise us in this way. Also, I am investing a huge protest from Mr. Todorovic and Milajic, who have ruined the SRS Municipal Committee in Lazarevec, which I will say more widely for the public. I step out of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, as an independent MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20675	Please, you abused the pay phone. You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. The next speaker is MP Momir Markovic, and let Rajko Baralic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another traitor. Too bad he's been in our ranks before. Looks like they got him a price. After all, the ruling nomenclature has also found many a price, and we know that everything here has a price, even a vote for certain laws has a price. I wouldn't talk about the zeroes that went through the SRS parliamentary group talking, I'd go back to the amendment. Said one of the messengers for a little while, Minister. Move away from the place. This will be difficult to move from place, except when parliamentary elections come, so when the SRS forms a new government, and then we will discuss its responsibilities and all other ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another law that's systemic for the ruling structure without essentially representing anything. What the previous laws did not regulate, it does not regulate either and are only fog and smoke, a fog that needs to cloud Serbia as much as possible. The law that preceded this law is called the Labour Protection Act. He systematically and systematically regulated all questions. If something had to be done, perhaps we should have discussed the amendment and the addition of the Labour Protection Act. I wonder what it was that made the minister adopt a bill on safety and health at work instead of the Labour Protection Act. Safety and health at work without protection at work cannot possibly go. I suppose the name of this new bill, as well as many points of this law, has been negotiated by many members of this law by Lala and Mike, when they were on TV then for some evening after television. Why am I saying this? Because employees of the business, employees of companies, union employees, or that of Mike, or that of Cankova, or that of the third ASNS cannot expect any protection. The reason is very simple. All the presidents of these unions have already been bought. Canak was bought by the chairman of the Board of Directors at the Employment Fund, Mike, I don't know what (I guess they blackmailed him for those houses in Subotica and those previous activities), and former ASNS president had a nice home. He was a minister for several months, though. He had a lovely home in an extraordinary villa in Zemun, in an attractive location called Calvary. Therefore, employee protection from the union can't ask. But let's get back to the law. That's enough indiscretion. We have tried to at least to correct the amendments, because most of these amendments will certainly not be adopted, but at least to point out where this law literally becomes inadmissible. Let's start with Article 4. Point 18 of Article 4 states: "A legal person to carry out the tasks of the examination and testing of equipment for the operation and testing of working environment conditions, i.e. chemical and physical impairments" etc. so it's said "legal person who's the minister in charge of jobs" etc. And in this law and in many other laws you've prescribed from the West, so the translators haven't exactly translated you properly, you put the minister, you put one person, you put the contractor at the level of the organ. The ministry is an organ and the minister is just a doer of business. The minister can be an organ, but somewhere else in the ministry isn't. He's just an organ elder. Article 9 states: "The employer shall not be exempt from obligations and responsibilities in relation to the application of the safety and health measures at work of determining the other person or by transferring his obligations and responsibilities to another person". Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the employer of social enterprises is the director, in private enterprises he owns, and the manager is also his executive. If he has a large company, the employer will hire a professional and capable man, and will instead carry out work on protection at work, hygiene and technical protection, fire protection, health care, because he will hire large enterprises, and hire doctors, in addition to medical care, etc., because doctors are the ones who visit halls, determine etc. Now the employer will be obliged to hire a person, to give him a large salary, without being able to pass on responsibility to him. That's absolutely illogical. Article 11 states: "The employer is obliged to provide preventive measures for protection when organising work and work processes, etc. It is further said: "The employer is obliged to ensure preventive measures prior to the start of work of the employee, during work, as well as any change in the technology process". He says, "The employer is obliged to provide early measures before the start of work." What does that mean during work? He saw that the press could cut off someone's fingers and then ask to set up a limiter; or he could see that it could drain the acid and poison the environment, and then it was in progress and during the process. Prevention measures are determined by the employer. The employer is obliged (in accordance with Article 13.) to adopt a risk assessment act, to amend the act. Article 13(3) states - if the employer assesses the risk, it is based on the identification of possible types of hazards. It is said that – the way and procedure of risk assessment in the workplace and the working environment is prescribed by the minister responsible for work. He's our minister of "alpha" and "omega" in everything again, and he's just one government contractor. The Ministry is an organ. Article 16 states that the employer is obliged by means of a risk assessment act, based on an assessment of the medical work service, etc.; Article 18 says that – an employer who performs works on construction and reconstruction of construction facilities, and I understand why this part is particularly related to construction, because you recently released into a bombed building, an underprotected building of workers and several of them has been injured. Instead of undermining this law and under the responsibility that arises for both the managers and the others who have brought these workers into the situation, you in the new law are giving a whole chapter related to the building. If we did that, we'd have to do one chapter for the chemical industry, one chapter for the airline industry, one chapter for traffic and connections one chapter, and then the law would be huge. I don't think special jobs should be particularly apostrophe. All risk-bearing jobs are risk-bearing jobs and that risk should be avoided. Article 24 states: “The employer can give employees equipment for work, means and equipment for personal protection at work or hazardous matter only: 1) if he has the prescribed documentation in Serbian for their use and maintenance, i.e. packaging, transport, use” etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that mostly the means of protection at work have long since been introduced because Serbia doesn't stand on its feet today in the economy, Serbia has had an economy when many countries in the environment didn't even know about it. Serbia has always taken care of protection at work. Therefore, I see no reason to particularly write in Serbian how gloves, pliers, presses are used. If a master is working on that press, he is well aware of the dangers of abuse, i.e. misusing, or not using means of protection at work, etc. Article 32 says, "Employee has the right and obligation to know security measures before the start of work, etc. I guess you get to know the security measures when you start a working relationship – well, you'll work in that place and that place, your jobs will be like that, and that's the danger, and that's the way the means of protection at work are, and that's the way it is. I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to cut it short. I'll say a lot by amendments, because the SRS has submitted 30 amendments, and there are a lot of our members who have applied for a speech on this bill, and we're going to solve a lot of things during the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20677	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić - is not there. The People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic has the word, and let the Prophet Rade be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20678	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is today on the agenda of a law that is very important and I hope that it will be accepted by all parliamentary groups, which is the safety and health law at work. Why is this law so important? First and foremost, it will contribute to reducing the number of injuries at work and that we no longer experience the same cases as happened the other day in Mladenov. The existing Law, which is still in force, was adopted in 1991 and has made several changes in the framework of which it was last made since 1998. That tells us enough that he's overcome. What's a fundamental object to the existing law, in my opinion, is that it doesn't pay enough attention to prevention without saying what criminal provisions are like. They're so small, it's pretty funny. The law we are talking about today is modern, it is adapted to today's forms of rejuvenation and is in line not only with the EU directive, but also with the recommendations of the IOR. The ministry has consulted not only experts in this area, but also the Union of Employers and Union representatives. As far as I know, they agreed on a text like this, in that real good spirit of social dialogue. The law we're talking about today is much broader than the existing one and treats the issue of health, not just safety at work. So it covers legal, technical, medical and psychosocial aspects. What's the basic paper? First, what I mentioned earlier, and what is missing from the existing Law, which is prevention, are all those measures that will prevent any injury from happening or endangering health. Accordingly, each employer will be obliged to make a risk assessment act. So, according to that people's "better to heal than to prevent". For each job, it will be determined exactly what risks can be and what measures should be taken to ensure that safety at work is as high as possible and to protect health. Of course, this follows that it will be mandatory and training employees within the company, but this time essentially, not pro-form. Why is that necessary? Here, I'll give you the most banal example. I think every firm in Serbia today owns a fire extinguisher. Let's ask ourselves how many employees know how to use it. I believe it's a small number. Theoretically, yes, but practically, do they know? This time it won't be so, and everyone will have to know their jobs and how to use their means of protection. What's also new, and it's a complete inclusion of medicine work in this area. They will have to monitor the health status of employees, workplace hygiene, and also participate in the risk assessment of employee health. The paper is that employees will have their own representative who will be actively involved in the safety and health issues at work, and will also have the right to attend any inspection carried out by the labour inspection and to receive a record afterwards, to have full insight into whether there are any interferences that need to be removed. The larger companies will also form a work protection board, where more employees will enter. It is precisely for this person to be treated and followed as well as possible, within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, that a special security administration will be formed, which will rightly aim to monitor as much as possible this area and to propose all necessary measures, to propose sublegal acts to which this area will improve as much as possible. They'll keep an eye on it together with the labour inspection. They will also organise professional exams, as the law stipulates that each company will have to have a person who will be in charge of monitoring safety at work. In order not to be pro-form, those faces will have to be educated and passed a professional exam. The administration will also issue licences for companies that will deal professionally with the issue. I also mention that the labour inspector, for example, will have the authority to, if he finds a situation that threatens the safety and health of the job, he will be able to ban the work of that worker until all the deficiencies leading to the threat of safety are resolved. Of course, it's not just this measure. I have to say that now the fines will be much bigger, so, let's say, the fine for a legal person will be up to a million dinars. However, penalties are also provided for employees who will be at a maximum of 20,000. Why are you doing this? It's because, let's say, we have cases where the employer provides all necessary measures, gets protective clothing and whatever it takes. For example, this workplace predicts having to wear protective glasses. The employer secures them, and the worker doesn't use them. There may be an injury. That is why we must thus convince the employees that they must take care of themselves, for they will best save themselves. In the end, I think we'll all agree that this law shouldn't be disputed, that it's very important to bring it in as quickly as possible, just to reduce the injuries at work and increase the level of safety. For these very reasons, the parliamentary group will vote for this law, because it fully supports it, and calls on other MPs to vote for it, above all, in the interest of the security and health of all employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20679	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, has the word, and let Heliana Dragojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am increasingly fascinated by the cynical and brazen statements of Minister Lalovic, when he speaks to the public or this speaker about the problems of employees, pensioners, socio-hazarded. So, all those whose problems and problem-solving are also the direct jurisdiction of the ministry headed by Minister Lalovic. On Thursday, Minister Lalovic here said that we, and he spoke to the SRS parliamentary group, would say, "You will endanger the safety of workers if you do not vote for this law." This is really amazing. Minister of Government, and we will be responsible for not voting for his law. Also, two or three days ago, the minister had a very interesting performance, whether it was at the conference, in the media and a few days ago the print media entertained that statement by Minister Lalovic, who said that there are 20% of the poor in Serbia, that the citizens themselves are responsible, because Serbian citizens do not like to work, and the work has been provided by this government, says: "let them see when the Chinese contingent arrives that will work in Serbia instead of so many unemployed in Serbia." Minister Lalovic, these are very unserious statements and I assume you are aware of this today, following all those comments that were in the media after this statement. You are responsible, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, as well as those of the previous Governments of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic, you are responsible for why 20% of the poor are in Serbia today, and that means the hungry, why they get fired every day, why employees have no guarantee, why pensions are being reduced realistically, why wages are being reduced, why the growing number of socially endangered are becoming more and more vulnerable. So, you are as a minister, as a member of the government, the entire government and Vojislav Kostunica as prime minister, responsible for the difficult economic and social situation in Serbia. Do not blame the citizens of Serbia for being hungry and for putting them in a position to live below each level. Who did you write this law for, what stupidly did you call him about safety and health at work? Indeed, I suppose your intention was to protect health and life by this law, to ensure overall safety at work. I don't want to criticize government officials, but it looks like he was a bad translator. You are already saying in the first article and in the first position of that first member of this law, that this law regulates the implementation and improvement of safety and health at work of persons involved in work processes, as well as persons found in the working environment, in order to prevent work injuries, occupational illnesses and work-related illnesses. It is obvious that there is one important segment missing here, though, through the law there are some provisions that do not fully regulate the issue, but it is obvious that from the title itself this matter is, otherwise, very important (we are all witnesses of how many tragic events are happening, not just these days, but otherwise because of the lack of security of employees and unsecured conditions for their protection at work, as it sounded nice in the past law that you put out of force,) but that instead of this title on safety and health at work, you said at least – the safety law at work, it would be something that was more comprehensive and complete. So, this law as it is not good, and even if it were better and if you accepted our amendments again, you would not be good enough because there is one problem we talked about earlier, and the problem is basic law, the Labour Act. Therefore, the Labour Act does not protect employees; the Labour Act is for employers, and as long as such a Law on Labour is these laws that come from this Law cannot be good for employees in Serbia. Of course, we don't mind that the law should protect employers, but we think of honest employers who haven't abused and exploited this period of transition from socialism to capitalism, as you popularly call it - transition. You've turned it into a muddy hunt since 2000. Unfortunately, very few companies are privatised in a normal and legal process, where new owners really behave as they expect them to and how the laws predict and how, ultimately, ethics at the workplace predicts. So you didn't bring for those honest employers, for the employees, neither this Labour Act, nor you bring this law, but you protect those for whom nothing is sacred, who can buy anything, not only what is material, but even the wicked people like the unfortunate one who was just behind this speaker. You're probably trying to protect your employer, Bogoljub Karic, and you're either sorry that only part of yours went there, and you're going to be in some other extraction. In line with the point on the assessment of the amount of financial resources needed to implement this law, you said in the first position that the implementation of this law does not require the funds provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is good to finally propose some law that does not directly affect the spending of budgets, which means the funds of Serbian citizens. In the second position, you say that to implement this law, employers will need to provide adequate financial resources for implementing the prescribed measures, for safety and health at work, in cases where necessary, with the aim of reducing labour injuries and occupational diseases. This argument is relevant and it really should be like this, but I remind you, Mr. Minister, that these newly-compromised employers today in Serbia can be divided into two groups. One group is those who cannot and do not have the resources, because these means of protection are very expensive, one part of them does not have those funds, and more are those who are not ready to give an extra, to invest additional funds to protect workers at work. You have not convinced them by this law that they have to do this, you have not, above all, because in the Labour Act they have protection for themselves and they don't care what happens and what happens to employees. You can't expect respect for employees' rights, Mr. Minister, in companies that now have bosses, not employers, who first fire about 50% of the employees, and those 50% who stay to work every day when they come to work are not sure if they're going to get a work book or are going to come to that same job the next day. And from a man like that, from an employee like that to expect you to insist on protective gloves, helmet, it's just not possible. You don't guarantee this law either, and even worse with the Labour Act, an employee who insists that if he works on a building and has to work with a safety helmet, if he says he won't climb a platform without a helmet, you don't guarantee him that the employer won't fire him tomorrow. That is what we, among other things, resent this law of yours, and that means the general approach of this government towards employees in Serbia. It's very interesting, and I'm surprised that those who will support it, MPs who will support this law, didn't remember that at least the amendment intervened or here to let you know that you've completely wiped out alcohol work or narcotics from this law. Unfortunately, there are many alcoholism and drug abuses in Serbia today and one way to get in the way and preventively is to have certain controls carried out in the workplace. Of course, you didn't predict something like that here. Also, it's not clear enough in the law, I don't really think there's an answer to that question, what happens if God doesn't die a worker and he finds out he didn't have a helmet, and that was why he died. How will it be established, it will be determined that the employer did not provide him with a helmet, for the employer will say, "Yes, there are helmets in the storeroom, but he and the others will not work with a protective helmet." You in these, I repeat again, five years for owners of new companies have brought new'supervised' bosses, in most cases, I apologize to those who do the job seriously and honorably, not to them, everyone knows who they are, you brought these new employers who neither recognise the union, nor recognise the rights of employees, and of course they will not respect this law either, because I say again and again, employers are protected by the Labour Act. This law has put aside the few employees left in Serbia and that is a very bad policy, ministers, Lalovic, and your and your government. For the sake of illustration, I'll tell you briefly about a firm in Belgrade, I can't say it's called that firm because there are very few employees and they're all in fear these days, probably at least five of them got fired today, and if I were to tell which firm it is, each of them could come under the attack of that new boss, because they could accuse him of giving us information that I'm about to give right now. So two years ago, he bought this new owner of this small firm in Belgrade, which could have worked great that whoever bought it really cared about it; there are 20 and some employees, two years of camp, they're doing nothing, they're getting a salary of 8,000,00 dinars, nothing significant happened until these days when that new boss, in fact, revealed that he bought the company just for the purpose of the location. He was waiting for two years to expire, because the contract promised him he wouldn't change his purpose for two years, that he wouldn't quit and he didn't really do it. So he started redecorating this factory, these facilities for some future content, for organizing weddings, etc.(at such an interesting location in Belgrade). He's now recruiting, trying to convince them to quit their own jobs, because it's better because he's getting some dinar at the employment office, they can't expect him to pay them what he's obliged to, by the Labour Act, because his firm doesn't have the funds, and if some worker gets up a little louder and talks to him, then he says: shut up, calm down, I'll give you 100 euros out of my pocket. The woman who worked at that firm for 30 years, shut up, don't comment any further, don't raise the others, you'll get 100 euros, drop your head and leave the firm where you left your life. So, such employers, Mr. Minister, you and the government of Vojislav Kostunica are ordering these laws. We of the SRS claim that this is one of the laws that is inapplicable and you will see very quickly that this law is inapplicable, because it cannot be applied if you have abolished collective agreements. Of course, you're going to say now that you're not, that there's a possibility, but where there's a possibility, and it's not a commitment, tie the cat to the word. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you withdraw this law, that you consider everything you've heard about this law and the application of the Labour Act. Do a serious draft labour law, do not abuse the views of MPs and MPs, by making you a minister to comment on them. Be a bit of a folk MP, because in one part of it is, so communicate a little with the citizens of Serbia, with the employees, and you will hear the right opinion about your Labour Act, about your care of employees, about this criminal law. So, I suggest you withdraw this law and reconsider the adoption of the right labour law, to protect employees, because that is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20681	The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have today on the agenda a bill on safety and health at work. The application of the Labour Protection Act was adopted in 1991, however, suffered a few changes and additions, last in 1998, editing the area of protection at work, not covering the issue of safety and health protection at work, as set out in the European Union guidelines in the International Labour Organisation. The obligation to pass a new law stems from numerous conventions of the International Labour Organisation, which our country has ratified. The fact is that regulations in this area are lagging behind in relation to changes, i.e. all relationships in society, and this is caused, among other things, by the adoption of certain laws with which this law is in an indirect or direct relationship, such as the Company Act, the Business Companies Act, the Labour Act, the Law on PIO and a long series of sublaws which are related to the area of this law. The concept of safety and health at work has a broader meaning than the concept of protection at work. The scope of the new law is all the work, except for specific activities, when it is prescribed by law and applies to all employees. The bill covers all persons found working in the employer, even on the basis of practical work, students in practice, persons on vocational training, training, qualifications, qualifications, etc. The establishment of a system of security and health at work in modern conditions includes other important elements and areas affecting the state of security and health conditions of work, such as the introduction of the principle of prevention in the prevention of injury and occupational diseases, the active inclusion of the labour medical service, the introduction of the principles of responsibility of the organisation for the application of health security measures at work, the introduction of compulsory insurance of employees for damages caused by injury to work and occupational illness. Prevention measures are of paramount importance in preventing all kinds of work-related injuries, occupational illness and work-related illnesses. Therefore, the introduction of the principle of the application of preventive measures constitutes a fundamental change in the bill's proposal compared to the applicable law. Prevention measures shall be applied in all phases of work processes, design, production, use and determination of labour, means and equipment for personal protection at work and hazardous materials. The employer is obliged to apply them at all stages of the work processes, to ensure them before the start of the work of the employee on any change in the technological process. The proposed law introduces the obligation of the employer to carry out a work-place risk assessment and to determine the measures to be taken to eliminate or lower the risk to eliminate possible injuries and the occurrence of occupational diseases. Given the state of labour resources and the financial opportunities of the employer for adequate investments, in the event that deficiencies are identified, and their removal requires greater investment investments, provided that the life and health of employees, the employer will form a programme on the gradual removal of deficiencies and set deadlines for its implementation. In order to train for the implementation of these measures, in accordance with the health care rules, depending on the workplace risk, to undergo prior and periodic medical examinations, to ensure that in the event of direct life and health risks, appropriate measures are taken in accordance with their knowledge, available technical opportunities, to leave the workplace, the workplace, and not responsible for the damage caused by the employer. The employee is obliged to apply safety and health measures at work, to use dedicated means of work, hazardous matter, means and equipment for personal protection at work. A significant newspaper is also the right of the employee to choose one or more representatives to co-operate with the employer, on all matters of importance for safety and health at work. During the new concepts of safety and health at work, there is also a record in this area and supervision of the application of this law. The role of the proposed law is to continuously initiate all activities in terms of taking preventive measures, so as not to result in injuries and occupational illnesses, and based on the principle of going to meet problems and solving them before they happen, with the aim of preventing and leading to the least possible injury to work and occupational diseases. By adopting the proposed law, we will move forward in the process of harmonising our regulations with European Union regulations. We'll have a new, modern framework to regulate health care at work. These are the most important reasons why the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the proposed text of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20683	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and let Milica Petronijevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the Labour Act and its changes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was opposed by the Serbian Radical Party, I must also remind Mr. Minister and the general public that some positive amendments, MPs in the created assembly majority in March of the month, tried to improve the Labour Act. However, two and a half months ago, the minister appeared and consistently wanted to return what he had advocated from the beginning. The normal trail of events was for this law to take place in the congregation procedure, or on the agenda. No one disputed, nor did our authorised representative dispute it and any of the MPs, that this area should be settled. Of course. Since the world and the century, I guess it's been so hard for human civilizations to, in a technological sense, perfect everyone, from the simplest tools to the most modern machines, how they like to say that those who impress themselves with the achievements of new technology, work everything on a button and be completely safe. In developed economic systems, much is invested and it is important that the process of production and any new technology, with a review and with shortcomings, which will later or sooner show themselves as such, reach a level to meet what was the primary goal of one who was the inventor of something new. However, we face major problems that our economy has and the fact that we have almost a million unemployed and those who are working, and who are doing some work, that this is very narrow, with outdated technology, we are talking about a law that respects certain European objectives and components of the law in developed countries without talking about the problems that weigh us down. Why this law, and if it was intended, to follow developed technologies and developed economies, was not elaborated in each segment. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted numerous amendments. You were right, Mr. Lalovic, when you accepted the amendment of your colleague Radeta, because the 35th and new views that Mrs. Radeta predicted, 2nd and 3th absolutely satisfy the form of Article 35. But you should have looked at all the other amendments more carefully, by way of an example of article 35. I'm under the impression that you've seen too many of them in a way that's unacceptable, when it comes to our intensity that we're fully and fully working on one matter. If you say so, according to the Labour Act, the rights of pregnant women and minors are defined, that is to say, their protection against certain injuries and negative consequences, nothing minded you accepting the amendment of the SRS that we have submitted to that effect in Article 30. – after heading 3 to add pages 4, 5 and 6, as we predicted, especially during pregnancy that a woman should not perform certain activities. In your article and attitude, it is said that she should be warned with a certain risk that she may eventually encounter. You see how we went through the point to the end. 1, 2, 3 and 4 – nor would the "Official Messenger" with paper be spent, if that makes you sick, or I don't know what the occasion might be. The extra words hurt the head when they're pointless, when different ignorant people say things and when they get involved in what's not their area, in something they don't understand. We have really been very careful to approach this law and this problem with us. Our intention was to define some things and concepts to the end. That is why I am deeply embarrassed that you have not accepted these other amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, because this was only in order to define the status and status of the employee and everything that awaits him in the process of protection and safety of health at work. When we wrote, maybe you thought that we were joking, that the employees, when he was being checked for the degree of knowledge of a particular profession, should show and practically need a certain kind of exam or test to pass, we didn't just write that it should be done in, for that, prepared and suitable rooms, because not to be like in that ad – for God's sake, move out of place. To make fun of the whole situation. But it really is. You can't expect someone to be on the scale, so that what's funny in the ad shows is taking that kind of exam. Or, to work as a miner, I don't know which mine and expect him to fill something out there. So these are all very meaningful and elaborate amendments in order to help workers. I've been asking around, on the eve of the discussion in principle, how things are, because I know of some personal examples and at all how it goes in the developed world, that you're advocating and based on which you write the laws, when it comes to the highest-security sum of insurance companies for, God forbid, serious physical harm. In Serbia, according to the information I have, which is firsthand, it could be the largest of millions of dinars. It's a matter of death or serious bodily injury. That's a million dinars tops. Calculate what a million dinars are and how unsecured our workers are. You see, he can't, if he wants to negotiate a bigger sum, he can't find such an insurance company in Serbia, because it's the highest nominal level in circulation. You know what it's like in Western Europe, you know what it's like in countries where high standards are respected, or in other technologically developed countries. We can talk about China, why not. Their process and their technology has gone so far that it is something for all those who are fighting general globalisation on the economic and political agenda, which America is implementing, with the help of the Western European countries, to which you are solely calling, which can only rejoice. We, as a country that is burdened with many problems, should first think about it and before it comes, God forbid, to some situation that in a procedural, technical sense something happens and that some worker is hurt, what is the underlying cause, when it comes to health at work and the health of employees at all? We cannot be declared to speak like this, as you have suggested by some high, allegedly, standards in legal form, without knowing or not knowing it, which you very often show, as if you have a absence from reality and Kostunica without talking about Dinkic and all the other ministers. You're talking about safety and health at work. We need to ask ourselves how healthy our man is when he goes to work in the morning, whether the flag worker, Bora, Majdanpek, Vranj, is not important where, the basic question is, does he have any predisposition of health to do what he's doing? Hardly, Mr. Minister. In order to think about these measures of protection, which, of course, should exist, but we have defined it much better with amendments, he should have conditions for existence, to go to work, to have breakfast, to provide for women and children in the house everything he needs. He's up front, psychologically, indisposed when he comes to work. There can be and that's a very common cause, sometimes negligent and all, troubles, care for naked existence. That is what is the biggest problem in Serbia. It's a devastating piece of information that we can hear today and that you can read in some daily press -- that every day there's a suicide. For what? Not because someone does it out of anger or what some other kind of disorder happened, but from misery and poverty, people raise their hands to themselves; they have no basic existence. Very often those who deal with this decadent situation in our society, in this stressful situation, especially those who have lost their jobs, say – you should take care of it, and all of this comes from misery and poverty. I can't come and explain now, as a folk MP, to some worker that these solutions are ideal, that everything is great, when I know that he's going to say – what I care at the end, I go there to do, to earn bread bark. Then we get to the criminal provisions, and you say a few days ago: don't wear a protective suit, don't adhere to the protection measure, I'm paraphrasing a little, he has to pay so much and so much punishment. What do you want him to pay for? Nothing would be controversial, and with much more precise, what we've given through the amendments, that this model of protection and safety at work is being advocated, that this is the state of prosperity, that the economy here works and works. Radeta's colleague used to say, but these are just some of the examples, the SRS MPs who are on the Committee on Business and Privatisation know best. Hundreds of damaged workers, without a social programme, without being able to normally do their job, with new bosses, with Serbian 'tycoons', as we have popularly called ourselves, who do what they want, disprove the workers, and your Labour Act has contributed much to that, Mr. Minister. You will say we have a collective contract. What is this collective agreement behind which the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not stand, namely the state as a guarantee, which is the constitutional right of every worker? We should, and we're going to talk about these solutions in particular, so, in a much better way, when this really reaches its true application, in some foreseeable future, but with this kind of power, it's very difficult to apply. Think again about these amendments we have submitted. You have set a good example, accepting the amendment of your colleague, Verica Radete, but all these other amendments are to the end precise, improving the position and in a much better way protecting the workers. If it is necessary within the legal framework to be given to them, then let it be done in a clear and precise way. The extra head doesn't hurt, this isn't just a surplus, it's some shortages. I do not believe that only you, but also your associates, now and in this tambobian ministry, because as you also became a free shooter, these Orlics went away, you left some – now who is your assistant instead of Novovic? Who's gonna know what happened to you all over the Ministry? It's about who knows where and what. But if they were involved in this and giving this kind of explanation, it's completely pointless. You say – it contains in this article, the Labour Act says, just a little bit in a different way. I'm not saying that you must and that your imperative is to accept amendments to the main opposition political parties, but then you show that it is vanity and that you are not prepared to discuss much better solutions and in general from the field of position and rights of employees, social policy, economic policy. Serbian radicals offer much better solutions, the citizens know that and therefore show us growing confidence. I believe they will know in such a way that they interpret our efforts, that they are much better protected by the position and rights of employees, that is, their safety and protection at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20685	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Vesna Lalić. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go, Mr. Dejansky.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we listened to Mr. Secretary speak nicely about this law, prevention, employer co-operation, inspection and what he was saying. When a man listens to him, he thinks he's serious, how he really intends to worry. We just wonder when we're listening to him. But it is denied by the text of the law which is written, in which certain criminal provisions are laid down. That's one thing. The second thing, this law does not have any urgent newspapers in relation to the past, and the causes leading to work injuries are not in any way solved, which means, in practice, that the consequences are the same. So there's a lot of disabled work, professionally ill, etc. What, as a result of all this, do we get? We get dissatisfied workers, dissatisfied employers, and we get satisfied insurance companies. What does that tell us in practice? Knowing the former "yellow government" and the current "blind yellow," as we call it, you basically like to work for money. So, the goal is to build in, probably related to insurance companies. So far, in the past, you've passed laws that don't protect workers, you've heard about it in the past period from the MPs of the SRS as far as it goes. The workers who stay on the street, when someone doesn't like them, when they look at someone badly, who's unprotected, they just stay on the street and have no one to complain about. Now, besides all that, what you're bringing now. Personally, the SRS doesn't think it's a solution to punish workers or employers, because, therefore, if we punish the employer, he will punish the worker. They need to be brought into practice for co-operation, like prevention. It can be done, and one of the possible solutions is through the manager. For what reason? Because he, as competent, who is in contact with workers, knows their habits, too, is constantly present unlike other people and can prevent the cause of these injuries. It's mostly indiscipline at work. It can therefore not allow access to the workplace unless one of the workers is able to work. It needs to be incorporated into the law. So I suggest that you return the law, or better yet, to leave, along with the law, you from power, to see your backs, so that employers and workers in Serbia will be dawned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20687	Thank you, Mr. Dejansky. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the opening of the original search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. Minister? The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20688	Dear People's MPs, after the first principle debate, I feel the need to make a few comments about these laws that were present. First, I must express my satisfaction that there has been no more serious objection to the text of the law. That remark that was about other things and other questions. As far as the law itself is concerned, there have been no more serious objections that would challenge the solution in the law. Before I move on to these comments of the law, as my fellow MP raised the question of one company, where he set the example that very poor working conditions are, that there is a high level of harmful matter in the company, that the workers suffer. I have, in this short period, checked what it is, since the MP gave me the material, which I will look at after, but the first information I have on what is mentioned here is the following: that in 2003, surveillance was carried out, i.e. a review of the conditions of work in the company, that certain measures were then imposed and that, on 18 October, a review was now carried out, where it was found that four times the chemical damage was reduced and that ventilation was introduced. So that's the information I got 15 minutes ago. Of course we're gonna check that thing out further, but I'm saying what I got as information. As far as these objections are concerned, or the conclusion of the law, what I think is encouraging is the following – that practically MPs of all parliamentary groups have said that the most important thing in this area is, in fact, prevention. I think it's very good that all MPs understand and talk about it. Of course we can argue on certain details, if that's the best solution in that detail, but I think this is extremely important. Why does it matter? Because when MPs say so, when they understand the matter, they will help in one important thing, which is to change Serbia's awareness and attitude of all Serbian citizens towards this area. Several MPs rightly pointed out the need and problems that workers themselves, for example, would not put on protective equipment, that employers would ignore it. So the issue of preventive action is, in fact, the question of education. In this context, I would mention, and that is also mentioned several times, this work security administration, which we are now forming, one of the tasks of that administration is to educate the public on this issue and citizens, as in all European countries this serious, from small legs – as in traffic offences, says preschool children should be trained to respect traffic regulations and there will be fewer accidents. It's the same here. This administration has one of the tasks to monitor the continuity of long-term work, so it is said that preschool children should be trained, so it includes preschool children, school children, when we study, when we get a job, to get into the heads of people the need to take a proper position when it comes to safety and health at work. That's the key and that's the answer to these problems we talked about here. In that sense, this discussion of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, in my opinion, is also very encouraging, because the basic thing and the basic thing, I think, is that there is no dispute in the assembly. When several other questions were mentioned, they were also in context, which I was talking about. Lawmakers rightly pointed to problems, such as labour disciplines. They rightly pointed out the need for discipline for all to respect what rules and regulations were. When we talk about the obligation of workers to put on helmets, means of protection, we talk about discipline. The problem of insufficient work discipline and poor work organisation is one of the key problems that is reflected negatively in this area as well. That is why I am glad that it has been pointed out by the MPs to this broader context of this problem. We can't solve these problems by just punishing them. The matter of punishment is part of the story and it always comes after the event. The idea of this law, and most of the MPs here, is that there should be no fines, but what we are going to do is we are warning that there will be work injuries, fatal outcomes, very tragic events that can happen in practice. What I think is also important here is to point out and I stress that because it was part of the objection, but to clearly define it, when it comes to the use of the means to work, what a certain remark is put on here is why we don't edit that matter here when it's in the habit of editing. It's simply that, when it comes to the use of resources to work, about machines that come into one factory to deal with them, that matter is no longer governed by this regulation, by this law. There's a so-called. Standardization when it comes to this area and it's not the matter of this. We, thank God, as a country moving towards the EU, otherwise we must respect the rules on the standardisation of these means of work, so that it will certainly significantly increase the degree of health at work by standardising labour resources and thus being in such a state that it will not in itself produce injuries at work. It's in second place, because it's mentioned. There's one more thing, it's fire protection. This matter is regulated in another law, and not in this and fire protection is within the jurisdiction of the MUP. So these two things that are said here, to inform you and the public, are arranged elsewhere, and that's not a lack of this law. One very important thing I want to stress, which for most citizens, or most of the workers in Serbia, will be of great importance when we adopt this law, is that this law is adapted to ensuring safety and health at work in small and medium-sized enterprises. It's one very important thing. As you know, one of the things that I think we all agree on is important for the further serious growth of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, in fact, to be responsible for the problem of unemployment and other economic problems. The small and medium-sized enterprises that should employ most workers in Serbia, the position of workers in these small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to safety and health at work when this law would not be passed, but if this old law remained, then workers, the majority in these companies would be seriously threatened. Why is that? Not because someone is too smart or too stupid, but because the now applicable Law, which was passed in 1991 and on the tradition of some earlier solutions, was considered above all so-called. big social enterprises when he was doing this stuff, which makes perfect sense. There were no small and medium-sized enterprises, and now their number is growing, and therefore perhaps the most important thing about this law is its adoption, to create a real situation for workers in small and medium-sized enterprises to achieve safety and protection at work, and that is the key thing when it comes to this law and the need for it to be passed. So it's not a word game, it's about wanting to mimic or translate someone and somewhere, it's about the need for regulations to adapt to a real economic situation. The real economic situation in Serbia is that we expect the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and we adapt regulations accordingly. I think it's very important when we talk about this matter. I'll say two things that I think are very important and clear. First of all, what we want to achieve with this law is this: when it comes to employees, when it comes to individual workers – to verify their skills for safety and health at work, practically, in the workplace where they work. So far, as a rule, there have been various tests and similar things that meant nothing. So if we really want to help this worker in his workplace to be as safe as possible, then we need to create conditions to directly check his ability to protect himself, to understand what this is about. So it's the first important and practical thing, for me one of the most important things. The second, in my opinion, a very big thing is a question of changing the role of medicine. Instead of working as she did, the whole idea is to be an active factor in the whole process, starting with that risk assessment act that every employer has to bring and coordinate, to be present, until she's a field service that's going to be on the scene of work conditions, what is the health status of the man who's supposed to be working here. It's the heart of what we call prevention. I think with these few things that we will adopt in this assembly, we will create a real legal framework for our work, which in the coming period, because it will continue and speed up the economic development of Serbia and the growth of industrial production, that in these changing positive economic circumstances we will create conditions in which it will not cost our people health or head. We all want economic development to go, industrial production to go. In these conditions, not to be the price our people would pay by losing their health, by losing their heads, at worst. I'd give another piece of information that I think is important, and that's how much it costs to talk about this area. I'd like to point out the economic effect. So far we've spoken, of course it's basic – the question of humanism, the question of humanity. However, there is an economic effect on what we are talking about. According to the standards made by the IOR, one fatal injury is the equivalent of 7,500 working days. Now you see how much materially that damage is. A permanent and complete disability also has an equivalent of 7,500 working days. One eye loss, severe physical damage – 2.625 working days. I want you to figure out how much that's in the money. Loss of dominant hand – 4,750 working days. I want you to figure out how much that's in the money. So what I'm talking about also points to a very important segment, an economic segment. So it's not just that we're good, noble, etc. It's also about the economic effect. That's another reason why I think it's good to support this law. In the end, just one more thing in one sentence. Let's be perfectly clear when we talk about economy and economy. It's about who's responsible for the current situation. I would point out what happened to Serbia's social product in the 1990-2000 period and what is happening in the 2000-2005 period. Ten years of continuous decline in social product, five years of continuous growth in social product. It's simple, these are stubborn facts. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20689	Replication to Mr. Secretary's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20690	I've brought up facts about a factory around Majdanpek. I don't know if Mr. Secretary got feedback from a party colleague. He was in the party, where Covic's trustee is the director of a factory and on that line of management, from the party. If that logic and the inspection is from that party, then it's got the wrong information. I suggest that Mr. Minister or someone from the Ministry sit in the car with me and go to the factory. We'll easily determine the state of things. Then we can chronologically go back a few years, months to see what the instructions for work, what resources they used when it comes to dangerous matter, if there's a manual, how many times it's been controlled, if they have a job protection reference, the head of the work protection service, which you're now calling a person for security, etc. Could not close temporary folder: %s This is the data I've been telling you about for the last 15-20 years. No employee has been in a systematic review. There are criminal charges, against human health, there are extensive files in the M.O.P. and in the prosecutor's office. No one's taking any action. The factory symbolically – 3,500, the director releases the judges' responsibilities for violations and gives workers no feedback on what it is. There were very bad working conditions, there were others. It's a low price of work. Nothing is invested in the protection of the environment and in the protection of labour. With insight on the scene, and it can also be done by inserting extensive medical records for a large number of workers, and it is about 80 young women who started working at 18-19 years of age. At 25-26, they became disabled workers. Someone's mother, someone's sister, someone's daughter, they're all disabled workers at the best age of their lives. Some have managed to get married, form families, some have not even been able to produce after a certain number of years of work in that factory and damage, not just nerve damage, but also liver, stomach, etc. Doctors are the most common to detect allergies to the unknown, instead of poisoning dangerous substances. It happened to take away workers from the sanity factory, regular infusions were received, the medical work was not responding, the director ordered that the sick should be concluded, the number of absences from work was reduced. There's a big torture going on. In today's day, when you expect to lose your job, you must not object to the employer's difficult working conditions, you must say nothing, you must say the worst, the most unfavourable conditions to accept. That's what can't come back well. The situation is complicated, the dissatisfaction is high and there is a risk of solving this problem in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20691	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic, for this additional clarification. I apologize to everyone, although there was no formal basis, but I think it was very important to hear this clarification. Thank you again very much, Mr. Todorovic. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a MARKING DAY OF PRAYER IN THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds; the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDP MPs and two independent MPs – 5 minutes, based on Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. At the moment, no proposing representative is present – Dragan Koadinovic, culture minister, and I will not open the debate until the minister arrives. I'm taking a 10-minute break, since the minister's been invited. At the same time, while you are making your schedule, as we announced Thursday, we will be working up to 20.00 hours today, discussing in principle the point on the agenda of up to 1800 hours. Continuing at 12.45 hours. [[After break – 13,00]] We'll continue our work after the break. Third item of the agenda. Does he want a word, since we agree to Article 140(1)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly opened a principled search, proposed by Dragan Kadadinovic, minister of culture? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20693	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that it is my sincere desire that this law be applied as rarely as possible. The sad day law is a newspaper in our legal system. So far, behavior in the days that have been declared a day of mourning has been regulated by different sublaws, passed by different authorities from situation to situation, as you know. We believe that a regulated state must have a legal regulation that will clearly regulate the behaviour of different entities in the days declared by the competent authority for the days of mourning. For these reasons, the government of the Republic of Serbia has committed three ministries that are closest to making the text of the law. In addition to the Ministry of Culture, the interior ministry and the Ministry of Education and Sports participated in this bill. The proposal you have ahead of you is a bill to mark the day of mourning, which was drawn up by three ministries, which the government of the Republic of Serbia sent to the National Assembly for consideration in March 2005. The law sets out very broadly the entities to which it relates, which are state authorities and organisations, territorial autonomy and local self-government, public institutions, public enterprises, as well as other legal and physical persons. The law regulates that the Government of the Republic of Serbia declares the day of mourning with its act and that it cannot last for more than three days, and that the situation in which the day of mourning is being declared has also been identified. For the different entities to which this law applies, different obligations are prescribed, such as the descent of the flag to half the spear, the giving of mail by minute silence, media information and memorials. The law regulates the way to mark the day of mourning in educational institutions, cultural institutions and sports events. Certain obligations for legal and physical persons engaged in catering, tourism and activities similar to these have also been established. Control over the implementation of this law will be done mostly by the Ministry of Interior, while supervision of certain provisions of this law will be carried out by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Sports. The non-application of this law shall be subject to fines. Finally, if the SCG State Community declares a day of mourning, since there is no federal regulation that regulates this matter, this law will be applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which, I underline once again, I express my sincere confidence that it will not be applied often.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20694	Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20695	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the state needs to regulate every area of life, we sometimes seem to be discussing bizarre problems. This wouldn't be the kind of thing if it wasn't really a bad time chosen to put this bill on the agenda. There is so much to be done in Serbia and so much important state affairs we have, and people in the government who determine order, together with the president of the Assembly, a bill that will be on the agenda obviously or not be able to assess the delicate situation in Serbia or deliberately lead us into stories on topics that are not too interesting, nor are they too important at this time for political and any other life in Serbia. But if you're already going to talk about anything at a time when Serbia will have Kosovo and Metohija, I just hope the minister forgot to say he hopes it will not be applied to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Then I'd be totally convinced of what you're saying. In fact, it's too important that what happens at the Security Council is too important to discuss how we're going to mark another accident. What's the matter with us? After all, when a law like this comes along, you can't blame much, because it's the law of humanity, the law of humanity, the law of belonging to the community, and these measures are even, I'll remind you of exceptions, but they don't need criminal measures. You simply can't be past people when they remember, or when they mark the silence or by unemissioning certain programs of some kind of accident. I wish you'd been condescending to the end. I have not seen provisions for all organisations and particularly criminal provisions for all organisations that are obliged to comply with the law, and I remember very well at a time when who knows how many authorities were in Serbia, as well as today, except that they are now usually in local self-government in the power of an excessive coalition, so each other doesn't want to be angry, so those in power in the Republic don't have too much trouble with what is done in local self-government. There's always a member of their own in that local self-government. I know very well that in certain days of certain local self-government, including ours in Kragujevac, when I was very intensively in Kragujevac, they did not stand out the national symbols, they were stubborn with the republican authority, they proved that they were brave, that the opposition, that they were Democrats, a free city, so I think that they should have predicted such cases of what the state was doing then. That's one thing. The other thing is, there are words here that should be thrown out of public use, such as the word "commoration," for which there is a proper replacement. We have proposed it to you by amendment, so the word "remember" would be the appropriate word, you could easily fit it into this law, and again, if every Serbian citizen understood you, you might not be understood by someone in the West, but he doesn't understand you even when you say government. You didn't write the bill of government, you wrote the Law of Government, so here and here, let's not let you throw in words that just prove that you're educated. That seems to be the only thing you and your associates know, those words, and what's going to be applied in Serbia and what's going to be hard to understand in some local community, you don't care. In principle – reject anything written by radicals, you did not engage in our amendments. I didn't even see the government report. There is no Mr. President, and Mr. Zankov is really not responsible if the session runs without the Government's opinion on the amendments, and since it is a very delicate political situation in the country, of course we will not vote for this law. We are getting closer to dividing how much we will be in, as much as against and one day, overcoming what is against and the laws will not be passed, but I am now saying that in principle against this law, a man cannot be too much, except that we are so opposed and that we expect so much extraordinary parliamentary elections that we can't wait for this law to fall, which in another country -- in Germany today, where everyone who deals with politics has formed a government, because they know that inflation is 5%, that it's something difficult that Germany can endure. If we were in such a normal country and the SRS would vote for a law like this. This way, we'll be against it, and you secure most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20696	You're right, Mr. Nikolic, there is no government opinion on these amendments. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that we have not received an application for the word of the MPs' groups. Before concluding a principled search, I would like to ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs, since there are no proposing representatives, I am setting a five-minute break. [[After breaks – 13,25]] We're going back to work. Before I give my word to Mr. Secretary, two notices. The mandated representative on these agenda points, in a joint principled search by the Serbian parliamentary group, is the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MP 9+9 is MP Bogoljub B. Pejcic. We move on to a common principle search of 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MANUFACTURER OF THINGS WITH DEFINITIONS, A PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS OF REFERRED TO INSTRUMENTS AND DEFINITIONS, A PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON EXCIPITIONS AND ENDANCE OF THE LAWS ON JUDGES, PROPOSES OF THE IMPLEMENTS OF THE REFERRED TO INSTRUCTIONS DO I ASK whether the representative of the Proposer Zoran Stojković, Minister of Justice, wishes a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20698	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, the Consumer Protection Act is before you. I'll be brief here, because the law itself is short. In line with the Council of Europe's directive, we need to imitate our regulations, to provide a slightly greater guarantee to our consumers than they have so far. It's a protection against an object-type flaw. This provides for wider protection and only exemptions for the producer or importer, if they do not comply with the obligations it has towards the consumer, so that they can be exempt from liability. In the other part, the consumer gets much more protection. If the product does not have the properties it should have, which should be in the declaration or even in the advertisement, it has the right to address for damage compensation, if such a product, due to its use, has suffered certain damages. Normally, there is a small exception to nuclear products, since this declaration, which this country has ratified, is intended as special safeguard measures. In relation to the Law of Infringement, I'd like to say that this is one extremely important thing, which is happening for the first time in our country, i.e. Infringement authorities in that key part become courts for violations. Under the signed conventions, we had an obligation to decide whether to leave the prison sentence, as the administrative authorities or the court so far express it. We believe that there is room for the courts for the violations to be those who impose that sentence, that the courts for the offenses may be those who grant the guarantee and the courts to be those who now give valid arrest and detention warrants. For these reasons, I say, the law itself has been rewritten, so that it can be likened to what we have taken over as an obligation by signing the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. As regards the Law on Infringements, there has been a new systematization, so that, above all, the basic principles, criminal liability, the conditions for the regulation and application of criminal sanctions, the system of sanctions, the criminal proceedings, the enforcement of decisions in the criminal proceedings and the establishment of competent courts for offences. In the general section, newspapers are also given, because a certain definition of the offence itself is valid, and new penalties have been given in the criminal act. One of them is work in the public interest, where exactly when it can be said, how long it takes, and especially when it comes to minors in that part. The new penalty is, the penalty points, with the cancellation of a valid driver's license. This principle has been put in place so that the new Public Transport Safety Act and criminal legislation can be matched. It is foreseen as a special measure of enrollment, and when it reaches 18, it will cancel the permit and withdraw the license. So far, we've had to sign up for the license, so they fake the licenses a little bit, do a lot of things, and use them on. We found this a far better way to regulate that question. If it's necessary, I'll give you some more answers. I'm just stating what the paper is. Two new safeguard measures are a ban on access to damaged facilities or the place of enforcement and public publication of the verdict. I think it's a different measure and how important it is, if we want to give certain judgments, first of all, to criminal courts, meaning and to show citizens what's wrong and to get proper public access. We must bear in mind that our citizens are more often confronted with violations than with courts. In that sense, and the publication of judgments by law enforcement courts for those important matters will have far greater significance than so far. To punish a man, no one infringencies, and it's a very common offense and most dangerous offenses. In minors, we have also demonstrated a system of punishment, so new juvenile measures are envisaged, particularly certain obligations, to apologize to the injured, to compensate for his potential damage, not to visit certain places, to avoid contact with certain persons, because you know that today we have a growing problem of juvenile delinquency, and also of offenders, and it is very often related to contacts with certain groups. In addition to this series of measures, it is predicted that they can last for up to six months and normally, if it is socio-helpful work, can not go more than 10 hours a month, so as not to get into a situation to interfere with schooling and similar things. In antiquity, an earlier system was retained, with newspapers introduced, that it could last up to five years of age, unlike previous systems, because there was a conclusion that a whole series of violations related to foreign trade or customs offences and offences, which lasted more than two years and could not be completed in two years. In that situation, we felt that despite these exceptions, we should allow for a somewhat longer period of limitations. Given the fact that the court's protection has been secured, we've also anticipated a verdict. It is precisely foreseen that for minor violations, where law enforcement authorities remain, they can bring solutions and orders, conclusions and remarks, and for those harder in the first and second stages will be tried by courts for violations. In terms of these changes, changes have also been made in that section concerning the provision of a trial for violations, so that the authorities of the administration can only have the possibility of calling and bringing, but only the court can guarantee and retain. In a new way, we've been prescribing the retention of a person under the fact of alcohol and other stunning means. I know it's going to be a little slow here, but similar to the court, we've decided that there's this possibility, that now a court of misdemeanor can say it, because you have a very dangerous situation, when a man is drunk or under the fact of drugs, if you let him go, he can do something like that again, so he needs to keep it, at least sober or come to his senses. The guarantee is also regulated in a valid manner. Once again, only the court can determine the guarantee and the way in which it is executed. In the most difficult – emergency legal medicines are provided and this is related to the part where courts make judgments. Perhaps, one of the most important newspapers, which we have, with those amendments we have adopted on the Committee, given the possibility that, in those cases where the verdict is pronounced, and whoever is authorized, should be found guilty, or guilty, or released, not seeking judgment, but sufficient to do just a copy of the sentence of judgment. That's what we're going to have to do, at the very end of the line, maybe, in a lawsuit, and in guilt, to speed up the process until final decisions are made, that the people don't wait for years. With regard to the effects of the adoption of the new law, what is most important will not cause any new costs, given that the authorities will be converted into courts, and will follow that network of courts, and in this regard the Law on Courts and the Law on the High Council is amended. Normally, the number will be determined by law, special, when you see the need, looking at the number of cases, by the number of courts. Otherwise, the purpose of these changes is, in my opinion, what's most important is to achieve the efficiency and economy of the bankruptcy process, that we don't come into a situation like now that almost 50% become obsolete, because they can't get to do it anymore, and on the other hand, when we do it again, there's this problem, that 50% of the ageing again. With all these efforts we've made, we've raised that level of protection. But roughly, in first-degree and second-degree procedures, between 63% and 68%, and in execution to 80 to 82%. However, yet one large number cannot be completed because of the bulkiness of the process itself. With these changes, we'll try those shortcomings to remove. In the end, we've been left with that law that's been standing here for almost a year, that's what. the omnibus law, which we wish to comply with the Law of Infractions with the other provisions on infringements under other laws. In one part, we accepted the amendments, so we left out certain areas, where special laws had already been regulated, and in the other part we agreed this Law on infringements with other laws, so that there was no conflict or contradiction. We have accepted these few amendments, believing that they are good and that they should, in a certain way, improve the text of this law. When it comes to amendments, I will be very happy to respond to the request to make certain explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20699	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the DSS for the agenda, which we are now discussing, is the People's MP, George Mamula. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here's a word from MP Verica Radeta, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and Gjorge Mamula in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20700	Thank you. Democracy really does wonders. Of course, I mean democracy as the followers of the "buldozer revolution" see it. Today we are talking about five draft laws in a united debate. It's about laws in the area of justice, so where we're still the tiniest. We are discussing five laws where one part of the administration is completely transformed into a judiciary and we are doing all this today in front of, believe it or not, 12 MPs from the ruling coalition. This is the consequence of the Rules of Procedure, which was voted by the ruling coalition, which was only important to enter the hall at a time when votes, of course, never go into the term to be scheduled, because each vote involves certain trade, agreements, negotiations. All of this is not of interest to the SRS parliamentary group, these are the problems of the ruling majority. But we are interested in the irresponsibility of the ruling majority towards the citizens of Serbia, according to this parliament. What we see here today is indeed the least said disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly. It is amazing that MPs, who will vote for these laws, are not even ready to stay here to hear what we Serbian radicals, who will not vote for any of these laws, we have to say. Of course, we'll also say why we won't vote for this law. It is unacceptable for our parliamentary group, Mr Stojkovic, that you, too, are on behalf of the government, for a proposal to conduct a united debate on five draft laws, came from the DSS parliamentary group, from the head of the parliamentary group. Of course, I know it's in agreement with you, Minister Stojkovic. It's unacceptable and it's amazing that you didn't think about these bill proposals, that we should apologize in this House, that you should say what's good about these laws, and we should say what's wrong with these laws. Unfortunately, it has already become a matter of manners in this House. The only and basic reason the ministers are calling for here is some kind of European Union directive. No one is interested in the constitutional basis of the adoption of certain laws, or their proposal. You will see today, I will tell you later when I speak individually about proposals, how significant laws are passed contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or some of the provisions of the law are unconstitutional. Nobody cares about that. I guess because individuals in the ruling coalition are thinking about a future constitution, which is obviously hard to bring. But you can't use something that's your idea, your vision. You must be aware that we have a Constitution, that Serbia has a Constitution and that every law adopted in this House must be based and have its legal basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's a big insult. I'm surprised, Minister, that these proposals come from you. The Committee on Justice and Administration discussed amendments that were submitted to all these laws on the agenda, no amendments were accepted by amendments coming from the SRS parliamentary group. Here, three, says the minister of five laws, very well, Minister. It was simply not heard about what we wanted and in what way we wanted, at least the amendment, to arrange and help regulate these laws. But we are not in the SRS at all surprised that the ruling coalition does not accept our amendments. If we just remember, and I remind you, that last week the majority here voted not to discuss the SRS motion, which concerns that United Nations resolution on the threat of the Hungarian national minority, therefore, when such a significant segment and such significant events in Serbia will not be voted just because one such proposal comes from the SRS parliamentary group, then it really speaks of the ruling majority. It's amazing and impossible for you to expect us to vote for some of your laws, whose adoption is not at all about the head, to say so folkly. We do not say that some of these laws should not have been proposed and passed, but indeed in Serbia there are many more pressing things, more pressing problems. The most important is this one, discussed today in the United Nations, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. We're all supposed to be entertained by that problem today and the previous days. Unfortunately, this parliament has not recently discussed the cancer wound to Serbia. The laws proposed today may be in one piece, at least some of them, the basis for repairing the situation in the judiciary, but the laws themselves, especially those on the agenda today, ministers, will not help improve the situation in the judiciary. You well know, as every citizen of Serbia knows, that the situation in this area is not good, that nothing has done or very little, that the situation is corrected, that judges and the presidents of the courts are still harassing the representatives of political parties, and those who are not sitting here in parliament today. We talk about it all the time and all, and we'll talk about it when that point is more extensive and more concrete at the daytime. Now I'd like to try very briefly to look back on these laws. It is simply impossible to speak and as a lawyer to fit into any of these laws, because these 20 minutes as determined for each parliamentary group in the principle debate might be enough to talk about only one of these proposals. That's why I'm only going to speak for a moment individually about the proposals of these laws. The colleagues who will speak in the principle debate will probably run through these draft laws as soon as possible, but when we talk about details, we will use the right to talk about amendments, try to convince the assembly majority, if there are more than 13 MPs today, since Minister Stojkovic was unable to convince us when we spoke to the Committee on Justice and Administration. First of all, the draft law on the responsibility of the manufacturer of things with lack. Minister, we also told you on the Committee, we also told colleagues who were present that we from the SRS felt that this law should not have been passed at all. We don't need laws just to have one in a row and to have the President of the Assembly inform the public from time to time that this is the most profitable assembly, because I don't know how many laws have been passed. We're passing a law on matter that's already regulated by the Bond Relations Act. To comply with EU directives only where it suits them is not good. Of course, we don't think our regulations should be harmonised, but it's many years before this eventual entry into the EU, if at all at that time when we come to the door there will be. It would never be a problem right before these integrations to pass that large number of laws, but it is unnecessary to pass laws and apply 10 or 15 years for someone's boss, and no benefit in this area, nor in any case to the citizens of Serbia from these and these laws. In this group, I guess you've gone unnoticed, or you think it might go unnoticed, you've included a bill amending laws that set fines for commercial offences and violations. If you, fellow MPs, have watched this law, I think you understand what the point is. This is about hundreds of members of this bill, and each article is about increasing fines. The increases are really drastic. Even in the laws passed at the time of this government or the previous government, which says that the government's representatives' claims about inflation are not true this year, i.e. that they are the exact claims of experts, economists who are predicting us with a high rate of inflation. If that were the case, we can see from these suggestions, especially from the amendments that a fellow MP submitted to this law. Of course, all of his amendments were accepted by the Minister on the Committee on Justice and Administration. For a short period of time, I will say two or three of the most drastic things, i.e. an increase in fines, more for the public in Serbia. Article 10 is amended as follows: The draft law amending the Law establishing fines for commercial offences and offences was laid down in the Law on Weapons and Ammunition in Article 34 of the Law (on arms and ammunition) for the commercial offence in this area between 30 and 150,000, and the new law provides for between 50,000 and three million dinars. Imagine how many times that increase is and how accurate Dinkic's story is about the surplus in the budget. This law is only passed to fill the budget, to confirm inflation. Whatever it is, whatever business offense is about increasing the fine from 150,000 to 3 million dinars is really scary and there's no excuse. I don't know how you're gonna justify it, if you talk about it at all, but I'm telling you there's no excuse. For example, in the Law on Public Order and Peace, a fine of 1,000 to 20,000 dinars has been increased, and it refers to the throw of firearms at weddings, etc. I don't think this should be sanctioned, but this kind of increase is completely pointless. I'll only comment on one member of the Road Safety Act. In Article 178 of that Law, the first sentence states that fines from 1,000 to 10,000 new dinars will be punishable for the violation of joint work organisations, self-government stakeholders or other legal entities, inter alia, if they order or allow the test vehicle to be carried out without authorisation. The government didn't think to change this law at least termically, because I don't know who's going to punish it if it says here that a joint work organisation, a self-government community, is going to be punished. What kind of organization is this today? What self-government community is this? That hasn't changed, but the fine between 1,000 and 10,000 under this law turns into a fine of 100,000 and millions of dinars. And this is proof that the government doesn't care, and neither does the Ministry that represents these laws here, that something fundamentally changes, but only to take the people's money. I don't have time to talk about this law anymore, but you'll hear more interesting examples. Amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the Law on the Regulation of Courts have been proposed. These changes and additions refer to the fact that it is predicted that the law enforcement authorities will transform into courts for violations and in essence the SRS has nothing to do with this transformation, but we have one fear on behalf of all judges for violations – we have a bad experience with the first so-called. The democratic government of Zoran Djindjic and his minister, Batic. Not a day-to-day, Minister Stojkovic, has you returned to work in the Serbian government all those judges for the violations that Vladan Batic has resolved in time only because they applied the law. This isn't cartooning or paraphrasing, they were boasting at the time. Democrats that judges for violations that applied the Information Act at the time will no longer be judges for violations. Many times, whenever I talked about judges, I talked about it, and I really expected this government to correct that injustice and get you back to work. By the way, it's good for the law enforcement authorities to turn into misdemeanor courts because, among other things, the judges are like those judges who work in regular courts, but their status was always worse than pay, housing resolution, working conditions. It's always kind of been on the margins, like they're not people who share justice, too, and they are. In that sense, it's good to do so, but I'm just distracting you, Minister, that what's already been seen doesn't happen, that you in the ruling majority take advantage of this situation, that when all the judges are resolved, because it's going to have to be done so that you here in the Assembly, and on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, are not proposed for courts for violations, that you don't take this opportunity, and that one part of the judges, who, for some other reasons, do not respond, are not appointed as judges. In the end, we have a bill on violations. He's the last one on the agenda. I have a minute and a half to comment on that proposal. It's just not possible. Of course, I'm not even going to talk about the members of this law individually now. I'll talk, talk and colleagues, especially in the discussion of details. Two principled things to say. First, if it is foreseen that the authorities for offences will be transformed into courts for offences, then we do not think that this law alone should be so large and have such a large number of members, it should not be prescribed the Criminal Procedure Act, because the future provisions of this law will also apply to these judges for offences. On the other hand, it is insufficient to synchronise these two laws in some parts of this law on violations. That's where we intervened in the amendment, and that's where we'll talk on the day when the details are discussed. What I said at the beginning, I will mention only three members of this bill, those are members of 46, 54 and 68 who do not have a foothold in the existing, valid and only Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, Minister, we think that you should have accepted amendments to the SRS at least those relating to the fact that we warned you that the provisions of the law proposed and adopted here should be in accordance with the Constitution, to those other amendments that are legal-technical regulation of the law. Of course, the most important thing for us is to adopt amendments that are fundamentally and conceptually different, because we in the SRS have a different approach from you and from the parties who will vote for this law. So the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for these laws, or we will vote against these laws. Maybe your intentions are good and we don't have the opposite opinion in that part that some of these things should be regulated as planned, but I'm saying, completely different. You should accept our amendments, so that the laws you apply will be better for you. Of course, we do not expect this from the congregation’s majority, since we do not participate in voting shops. So we're not voting for the law. We're in a lot of trouble. I hope that colleagues who speak of speaking individually about laws, not to spend all their time saying at all, because it is impossible with such little time, in such conditions as the Rules of Procedure, to discuss such serious issues seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20701	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20702	I'll be brief, and I'll give you a few explanations, so there's no doubt. As far as this consumer protection law is concerned, it is true that we have a law on bond relations, which is good. However, this is about an increased level of consumer protection. I accept that we will not enter the European Union tomorrow, but if the European Union has adopted a directive to force its members to have increased protection for their citizens, I see no reason why our citizens would not enjoy that protection until that moment until we enter the European Union. Why would they be anything worse than those in the Union, where more responsibility is sought from manufacturers and those who are selling to citizens and citizens has more protection. I don't think there's gonna be any interference, that our citizens are enjoying at least that part of the protection, no matter when we enter the European Union. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think you've met me enough and I've never made a difference who submits the amendments. I've always watched if they're improving the system of the law and if they can really accept it. And in this case, I've accepted those amendments that improve the text of the law. I turned down one number of amendments for a very simple reason, and I said that on the board. Compared to this first law, the conceptal difference between the SRS is that the law should not exist and then the members are deleted. In that situation, there was no opportunity for them to accept themselves for improvement, except to withdraw the law. As far as punishment is concerned, the fact is that some have been increased. I have to tell you, we don't have a criminal responsibility for legal persons. We've got the offenses and the offenses. Their punishments are always much greater than those provided for by natural persons. That and how there is justification, especially when it comes to the most serious violations related to imports of goods, customs offences and such things. As for the possible choice of a judge for violations and resolutions, and now I'm saying that I'm one of those people who always thinks that you need honor, discipline and willingness to work, to be the only criteria for choice. As for that, I will always represent that attitude, and you in the congregation will choose. Also, regarding the Criminal Code, the fact is that in this law we have introduced certain things that are specific to violations, similar to the provisions of the Criminal Code, but we have not touched the other provisions, for the simple reason that you have a provision that says that all other things that are not regulated by this law will be observed by the Criminal Code. Therefore, there was no need to repeat all these provisions in these others, because it will apply wherever it is not regulated specifically, as a specificity of the law of violation. It's purely for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20703	The next one will be authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr. George Mamula, after the break. The break is up to 14.55 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20704	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get on with our work. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20705	Since several points of the agenda have been combined, I will only talk about the draft law on violations, which seems to me to be the most important. This proposal presents, by its content, a proposal for a modern law, in line with modern aspirations in the criminal law and the science of criminal law. According to its content, it is in line with international law, since under the Constitutional Charter, international law has primate over domestic and all adopted conventions are directly applied, so that they are no longer left at will whether we accept international conventions or not, or we will respect the primacy of international law or not. A UN declaration of human rights was voted in 1948. The state of Yugoslavia did not then vote in favour of the General Declaration of Human Rights, so that all those whose rights were violated from 1948 to 1971 cannot count on compensation for their violated rights because the state did not recognise the General Declaration of Human Rights. This was the time when the proposal to enter into the UN General Declaration of Human Rights was also put into place the right to form concentration camps that were formed in Yugoslavia, but did not enter into the UN procedure, almost, so that the intervention that we should not adopt laws is not correct, because all European countries are harmonising their legislation with European conventions, and I advise those who do not believe to look at the EU website and to look at the websites of the legislators, to see how the domestic laws of the European countries comply with the European Declaration, or all the recommendations of the EU. It was high time to change our law on violations, a very old-fashioned and exceeded law, from a time that was definitely for us. On the other hand, misdemeanor status is not clear enough. They're special-type organs. Namely, they are neither the judicial authorities nor the authorities of the administration, so that it had to be amended – that the law enforcement authorities cease to exist in our right and that we receive criminal courts as competent courts to determine the responsibility for the violation of the offence, that judges in charge of the infringements are equal to the other judges in the judicial system and that criminal law and criminal proceedings are followed by changes in criminal law and criminal proceedings, because in all countries in the world, a certain similarity can be observed. If you want to see what a criminal law is like in a country, see how criminal responsibility is arranged in a criminal law, how issues of criminal law are arranged, and then you will know that the solutions in the criminal proceedings have been reviewed. The same goes for any state's criminal laws, you'll see similarities between a criminal procedure and a state's criminal act. When it comes to the material part of the offence law, I think it's a good new definition of a crime, which very simply defines an offence as the execution of an act which, by the law of the competent authority, is defined as an offence and, in addition, is against the law. The principle of legality is very clearly defined in Article 3: that the offence must be provided for in the regulations, very clearly defined and that it cannot be tried for an offence which was not intended as an offence at the time it was committed. I think there are good solutions to the execution, the time of execution, the place of execution, especially the necessary defence, where there has been a decision taken from the Criminal Law, which is now much more broadly defined. It is known that there is no violation if the action is prescribed as an offence committed in the necessary defense. But what matters is in point 2. (Article 13) That it is necessary to defend it: "it is the defense that is necessary for a doer of his good or for the good of another to refuse at the same time a wrongful attack." So now the good that's being protected is expanding. The earlier definition was to reject both the simultaneous and the illegal attack, and now the good and the good of the other refuses both the simultaneous and the illegal attack. Thus, with such a solution to the necessary defence, it is logical that there has been a change in the extreme urgency, which has also been defined in a modern way. Namely, "The end of necessity exists if the offence was committed to remove the perpetrator from his good or good other at the same time unsecured danger." A new language has been introduced with regard to criminal liability. In fact, it's about guilt and forms of wine. They imagine and stop. In Article 18, there was no special newspaper. Legal error has been detained in the way it has been defined so far, and I think the right measure has been found there, since taking the full solution from the Criminal Code would be wrong because of the specificity of the offence. I think they're good solutions in terms of complicity, so we've kept the earlier solutions. The newspaper on the type of punishment is that we now have public interest work and the annulment of the validity of the driver's license due to negative points for those drivers who participate in public traffic and break regulations. I think it's the right thing to do, because we have an increasing number of people who, by reckless driving, have made a lot of people unhappy, especially children. I think that the application of this provision should be very clear and broad, so that we don't have careless drivers creating people with disabilities or killing people in public traffic, especially when you look at the last ten years of how many people have died in traffic, and that exceeds the figure from some wars. When it comes to protective measures, a ban on motor vehicle management is provided. However, I think another solution would be better, which is that a ban on passing a driver's test was introduced for those who tried to drive and drive a car without passing a driving test. I think that such individuals, more and more, should be given the appropriate protection measure, i.e. A ban on passing a driving test over a certain period, to remember their attempt to participate in public traffic without a driving licence. It is good that Article 46 of point 7 provides for a ban on access to damaged, objects or the place where I also see a parallel with criminal proceedings. This is particularly important because of the violence that has increased and I think that this measure is the right answer for reducing violence and in general, for behaviour, or for special safeguards against those offenders who cannot respect certain values. Public publication of the verdict, it's also a newspaper, and I think that those who commit serious crimes should experience it so that the public in the paper can read that they're embarrassed and it comes out everywhere so that the public knows who it's about. As for the principle of procedure, I think that there is a good balance between the protection of public interest and the rights of participants in the process. Furthermore, the free assessment of the evidence has been detained, insisting on the economics of the infringement procedure, the principle has been so far. As far as defence rights are concerned, it's far more defined now, that it's very clear that both the right to formal and material defense is provided in a good way. As for the use of language in a misdemeanor procedure, also, that article in 86 is a quite good solution and I think there were no objections, even in a public debate there were no objections about the solution. Court jurisdiction is a key change. However, criminal courts are introduced as first-degree courts, so judges, and they will also commit violations, should meet the same legal requirements required for judges. The defendant and his rights in article 108 are also well defined. I think it's clear that the defendant has the right to defend himself only with the professional help of the defenders, so there's no newspaper here. I think good solutions are also in the legal process of appeal. This law in general needs to be supported, and I think the promoter deserves every commendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20706	Is there anyone else from the president, or authorized representatives, who wants a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS, the G17 plus and the SPS. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I have to point out one fact, which is that, once again, even five laws, namely the principle debate on five laws, are joined into one law and thus best demonstrated and how much it is and what concern the ruling coalitions are about these areas on which the laws are passed. It is truly amazing and we all expected that, at least, the law on violations that is extremely large and has over 300 members, and representatives of the ruling coalition would announce it as something epochal, very important, as something that would further bring us closer to Europe, we all expected that this law would, conditionally, deserve to be discussed in this full five-hour debate. But let's make these four laws that have something to do with the judiciary joined in a single debate, (Proposal of the Law on Infringements, Proposal for a Law amending the Law which sets out fines for commercial offences and violations, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts,) but the law on the liability of a producer of things with a lack of me really has nothing to ask in this group of laws. It is completely unclear what led the motionor, i.e. the head of the DSS parliamentary group, to propose that this law be found in that set and that it be included in this principle debate. The only reason he could be run is by just playing this National Assembly, devising its work, because this law absolutely has nothing to do with these other laws. I'll read you article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The bill is first being conducted in principle." Paragraph 2 states: "The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are related to each other, with a decision on each proposal being made separately." So, in order for the National Assembly, even with that parliamentary majority, to vote this way, it is not necessary for you to be in a hurry, that is, not enough, but also for some other formal conditions to be met. I would like, since it is not already the head of the DSS parliamentary group, to explain to me, at least then, Minister Stojkovic, who represents these laws, in which way they are conditioned, for example, the law on the responsibility of the manufacturer of things with a lack of law on amendments to the Law which are certain fines for commercial offences and violations or with any of these four laws. So find that thread that connects these laws and makes the solutions in these laws interlink, which is why it is necessary for us to decide on all the laws in a single search. Simply, there is neither, nor is there, but what connects them, which connects these laws, is exclusively the desire of the ruling coalition to devise the work of the National Assembly and that the debate on these extremely important legal solutions is reduced to a minimum. I will try to say a few words, or sentences about each of these laws, because of the short time we have at our disposal. First, of course, on the draft law on producer responsibility for things with shortages, and I must say that it is unclear at all why this law is passed. I think whoever graduated from law school and read the Law on Liabilities, and then read this law of a dozen members on the responsibility of a producer of things with a lack, found it in wonder why it was necessary to pass this law in the first place. Nothing new is introduced into the legal system by passing this law. The explanation is what we get for every other law: that these are the European Union's demands, that this will bring us closer to Europe, that domestic legislation is harmonised with European and similar. We have heard here from representatives of the ruling coalition and from the minister that this law increases the level of protection our citizens will have. After his statement, I once again read this law. I failed to find which member of the law was proposed, that a similar solution, i.e. the same solution, was not contained in the Law on Liaison Relations, so I would ask the Minister to tell me specifically, which member of this law was given any greater rights to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and what it is that increases the level of protection, which is a specific member, which they will have until now and, possibly, what it points to is that the courts under this law will eventually find greater compensation for people who suffer certain damages due to certain things with shortages or that they will increase, for example, the number of cases in which these provisions will be applied. I don't think there are any of those provisions. If that's true, I think it's best to have an analysis of the effects of the law. This came to us in this explanation of the government, where it says that the application of the proposed solutions will not cause, in our assessment, additional costs to citizens and businesses, and thus to small and medium-sized enterprises. In plain language, what is understandable to all of us, this government tells us in a simple way that it will not increase the volume, because if it says that it will not increase costs in the economy, or producers of things with shortages, not small or medium-sized enterprises, that there will be no charge for greater damages under this law, that the majority of persons will not have the right to compensate for certain damages. So everything stays the same. Then the question is, why are we passing this law? Do we want to brag that we've passed so many laws, because if we already have this area regulated in the Law on Bond Relations, and nothing fundamentally changes here, but only a declaration repeats certain provisions, I think that, purely legally speaking, it's completely pointless to go into such an adventure at all, as is the passing of such a law. What should be the objective of this government, which is certainly the objective of the SRS, is to reduce legislation, reduce it, in a concrete and precise way to regulate all areas, not to pass laws for the sake of the law and to increase the number of regulations that one must follow. As for the draft law amending the laws which set fines for commercial offences and violations, this is definitely a law that would be very difficult to explain. I suppose that's why no one in the ruling coalition dared to speak here in detail or try to explain the principles that they conducted when proposing amendments to this law. If you look at it, it's an extremely large number of laws that cover it. It's the first feature of this law. I think it's very hard to count. It is 50 pages, on which the provisions of the laws that are being amended are closely written. It is exclusively about changing the amount of fines, which are prescribed in various laws, but what is missing, it is a unique concept of change. So this is where we should have heard if it was inflation. If this is the reason for the change in the amounts prescribed, then all these laws should be subject to the same level of increase, or the same percentage of increase. Right here, such a concept can't be found. There is a change in the amount of fines that are threatened by 10 or 15 per cent, or about 50 or 60 times, or five or 6,000 per cent. I will give a few concrete examples: in the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations in Article 79(2), the words "30,000 to 300,000 dinars" are replaced by "30,000 dinars to 200,000 dinars". So the general maximum threat penalty is reduced. This is not a general tendency that is within the law to increase all amounts, but it only increases the threatened maximum, but then the question is why does this range not remain the same as it was? So if 300,000 dinars are now reduced to 200,000, then why isn't the minimum of 30,000 dinars reduced to 20,000? This reduces the range between minimum and maximum threatened penalties. Generally, we in the SRS have nothing against it. We believe that legal certainty should reduce this range, because the fact that in some laws, in some members, that range is 50 times, the difference from minimum to maximum, gives extraordinary powers to individuals and in specific cases there is abuse, legal uncertainty, because citizens for the same offence, someone will pay 20,000 dinars, and someone will pay a fine of 1,000 dinars. That certainly shouldn't happen. In the Law on Public Procurement, Article 147 item 1 states "from 100,000 to 200,000 dinars", are replaced by the words "from 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars". So here is a completely different situation than the previous member. The minimum threat penalty remains the same – 100,000 dinars, but it goes from 200,000 dinars to as much as 1,000,000. So five times now is the maximum, allowed by law, and the penalty, and the range that was in the threatened sentence of 100,000 to 200,000, is now 100,000 to 1,000. The range is even five times bigger than it was. Why this was done, I really don't know what reasons the legislator of this law has run, it would be good to be explained to us, because no one in a uniform way can explain such a different approach from law to law and from member to member. The explanation given at the end of the law in an analysis of the effects of the law says: "Effects will also be seen through the achievement of the legal certainty of citizens and equality before the law." I hope Minister Stojkovic read this explanation before he came and before he accepted to be the government's authorised representative for this law, but I still don't think that's true. I appreciate him as a lawyer and I don't think he would have, if he'd seen this, allowed behind such an extremely bold claim to put his signature and his authority. Which means that by increasing the general maximum of some penalty or by increasing by 50 times a certain penalty, or by reducing by three times, legal equality of citizens will be achieved. What does the prescribed level of punishment have to do with the equality of citizens? What does the level of the prescribed sentence have to do with the legal certainty of the citizens? There's absolutely nothing. Legal certainty is seen through whether a certain law will be applied to all citizens and whether it is certain that it will be done. The equality of citizens is seen through the fact that if all citizens have committed the same offence, under the same circumstances, they should be punished by the same amounts of money. You in this way, prescribing the possibility of determining 50 times the penalty for one person in relation to the other for the same offence, destroying legal certainty and destroying the equality of citizens before the law. It would be better if you had thought about it and kept some normal level of those penalties and a normal range based on which you could have some kind of legal certainty and equality of citizens to establish. Here's to the end about the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure. We also see what is the essential reason for this increase. The proposer tells us, by passing laws, by amending laws that set fines for commercial crimes and violations, the inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget will significantly increase. Therefore, it is not the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the legal certainty of citizens, equality or anything else, is aimed at filling the budget. He saw Mladjan Dinkic that of that surplus, which he had increased in advance, there was nothing, he saw that the charge was extremely low, that the growing number of businesses was working, that the growing number of employees was growing. The only way he can fill the budget is to reach again for an increase in fines. But you need to know that you can't slaughter anything for a pound of meat, but that it's much better for you to provide a favourable economic climate, to ensure that businesses work and that you then collect taxes, not that, by increasing the penalty of what little business is doing in Serbia, you can lead to a beggar stick. As far as the next law in this set is concerned, it is the Law on Judges and the inclusion of these provisions relating to the Law on Infringements and the Conversion of Judges that were so far, practically not known what kind of bodies, these are the Sui Genis authorities, therefore, they are not real judges, they are not the real authorities of the state administration. They had some judicial powers, they were directly appointed by the government, elected for an eight-year period, with the possibility of reelection. Now they're practically being translated into regular judges. But what we are more interested in, the sooner Minister Stojkovic should tell us, is – what about the promised improvements relating to the material position of the court's employees: how many salaries have been increased to judges, professional associates, trainees, dactylographs and all those people whom, in previous sets of judicial laws, when you increased taxes, when you increased the percentage that will directly remain to the courts of these taxis, said that this would drastically affect the increase of wages, the interest of employees in work and everything else? It's been months, and we've said then that the concrete effects in that direction won't be, that the employees will be in the same poor, tiny state they've been in so far. I think it would be better for the minister to answer us now why these promises, which we've heard from him before, have not been fulfilled. The law itself is something that can be challenged in some way. First, I would start with Article 79v, which says that the decision on the number of judges in the criminal courts and the Higher Criminal Court will be taken by 1 July 2006, that the president and judges of the criminal courts and the Higher Criminal Court will be elected by 31 December 2006 in accordance with the provisions of this law. Already, some of them know that in the area of the judiciary, regrouping has begun with criminal judges. Of course, they are deeply aware that this assembly, or parliamentary majority in the near future, will decide on their naked existence, are aware that their work depends, the future of them and their families, on whether the congregation majority will be kind to them. They all have a re-election coming. They're in a lot of panic. It is clear to us that, like the situation we have when it comes to the election of the president of regular courts and judges of regular courts, there will now be a movement of ties, that they will re-work the party's divisions, so each party, in proportion to the participation in the government, will receive a number of judges for the violations it can appoint. How it's going to work and what it's going to come up with, we can only assume. Article 3 is also very interesting. He says the senior criminal court will take over from the law enforcement council, and the misdemeanor courts from the municipality's law enforcement authorities need the number of employees who have performed the work of the department of those authorities, which means that they are all employees of the law enforcement authorities, too, already with one foot on the street. It remains to be seen which of them will be party-like, politically-like to stay to work in the coming period. What would be normal, knowing that there are no too many employees in those bodies, is that here in law it is said that automatically, by law enforcement, everyone who works in those law enforcement bodies will continue to do what they've been doing and in the courts for violations. Or, at least the minister tells us – we now have so many employees, and of course there is no explanation, it is estimated that there will be so many judges, it is estimated that there are so many employees in the professional services that will serve them and of so many employees that they will lose their jobs and these people will have priorities. Now, away from the public eye, you are today making a law that doesn't practically talk about anything, but only gives the ruling coalition the possibility that tomorrow, far from the public eye, in peace, it decides – this one can, this one can't. It's just that another number of people is out of a job. I think that, I think that was the basic order, to say - as many and so many citizens of the Republic of Serbia would lose their jobs, so that it would come to your deskwork, and we heard how many people, about 200,000, you deleted from the records of those who are jobless in Serbia, and that's how you try to quote those numbers that relate to unemployment. Besides the fact that from day to day, a large number of people are out of work, and a very small number of people are employed, your employment is dropping. But the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, which should be the main indicator of the number of employees, is not growing, but is also falling. The next law I'd like to say a few words about is the Law of Court Order. We've had several times on the agenda of the court-ordering law. In practice, these changes that you have provided for by the Law on Infringements are being imitated here, as one type of body, or as one type of court, otherwise they are being regulated by their establishment and everything else that will work. Since the time I have, it points out, I have practically not touched the Law of Infractions, we will do so in detail in the debate on amendments. I would ask those who say all international declarations are directly applied in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because international law has primate, so it is necessary to pass such a law on the offence. Logically, the question arises, if that is the case, if nothing depends on this assembly, but enough to bring a similar law somewhere in the world, the question is justifiable why are we even discussing this today? If this is something that has to, if this law is such a law that we can't change anything here, then it was completely pointless to submit amendments, to discuss, or anything else. Then maybe this should have taken into account some of the declarations, and we in the Rules of Procedure would not have the right to submit amendments and that we are even trying to improve these legal solutions, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The SRS parliamentary group will not vote for these proposed laws. We have submitted amendments, tried to improve the proposed texts as much as possible. We hope that the parliamentary majority will hear what we've done, but we have a day to vote, so that we can all see for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20708	The word has a minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20709	In the question of political assessments, I will not engage, it is the right of every party. But here I am called myself, personally, with the claim that promises have not been fulfilled. Here's the pay information. That's what you heard, but I can see you kept your mouth shut. Last year, the judges raised 25.7% and other employees 38.2%. That's what inflation is all about this year. Knowing that it's a little bit on those previous changes, and they weren't long ago, the judges raised their salaries 30% to that already increased base of 25.7%. You have a very interesting situation, and I know you're going through Serbia, and I know you know it, judges now have an average salary of four to five times the salary. The data I received 15 days ago were judges from Bulgaria, already on the threshold of EU entry -- their judges have a salary of 500 to 800 euros. The President of the Vidin Court's pension will have 160, 170 or 180 euros, depending on the average. Make sure we have much higher wages. Our salaries range from 44,000 for the municipal court to 171,000 in the Supreme Court, in the Department of Justice for Organized Crimes and War Crimes. It's wages that don't deserve respect, but I'd prefer it when we talk here to see what we can do with the courts that they judge better and more efficiently, because the people are willing to pay the judiciary, but to get what's the minimum obligation of those courts and judges, to fulfill their obligation and work towards the citizens and to give them protection of their rights. I don't think there's gonna be a question at the time. The other thing is about choosing. It's here that we're told whether to choose this many parties or this many. As far as I know, it used to be when they chose the board, so one third went to this party, one third to that party and one third to the third to the party, and then when the committees still proposed and the DOS came, there were 18. The first law we have passed has been introduced by the High Council of Justice just to avoid the possibility that most in the congregation can choose by that system. That's what we did. The board may give an opinion, but it can no longer suggest a choice the way it used to. As far as the number of employees is concerned, it stands in reason, nothing so far is abolished, but we have one obvious fact that one number is so-called. The term of office, which represents almost 40% of the violations, has moved on to the organs of the MUP. When, at the end of the year, an analysis is carried out to see how many cases remain and how many employees and judges are needed, then the Courts' Law will be amended. He's not here, and he's not touched, if you noticed. So if there are no key changes, seeing that he is now acting as a court, it is a procedure that requires a number of employees, and on the other hand a reduction in the number of cases, I do not claim that something will be reduced at all, or if it is reduced, that other authority, or the court for violations, will increase. The question is, will there be any reductions? However, there we must be objective and look at all this data at the end of the year, and based on the fact that we are setting up a network of courts in the Law on the Seat and the Organisation of Courts. That's what I wanted to point out to be known to really predict it, and as far as the commitment I made is concerned, I fulfilled it. You said I didn't, and I say I did. I'm going after Serbia, it's familiar to you, a good number of people say, hell of a situation so far the judges are best alive. Let's not look at unobstructed things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20710	Thank you, the word has a People's MP, Nemanja Sarovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20711	It is true, Mr. Minister, that you have in some way prevented these party arrangements by introducing the High Council of Justice, but it is not a good thing that it is now not completely abolished, but only instead of the Assembly was transferred to the High Council of Justice. Now he is in the situation that we had earlier here, that the parties here are agreeing on who will be elected, and now we have a situation where, in the Visa Council of Justice, representatives of various parties and stakeholders agree on who will be proposed to us, and we as legitimately and directly elected representatives, directly elected representatives of the people, have no opportunity to influence whether any of the candidates reported, regardless of their personal and professional qualities, will be proposed for the election. As for this case of yours about Bulgaria, the judges' salaries -- I don't think you've chosen the best comparison. I think there are brighter examples and better ones to compare ourselves with. This fact that in Bulgaria, the pension of a judge of 160 euros may be telling you something, but knowing how much salaries were paid by judges in the Republic of Serbia up to a few years ago and considering that the salary is calculated on the basis of an average of all 30, 35 or 40 years of employment, as far as anyone has already achieved, clearly tells us that their pensions will not be much higher either. The judiciary has been in a very bad position for a long time. I don't think we retired judges have much higher wages. It was also the reason that a large number of them went to lawyers, a large number of them later, out of retirement, came to the courts to work, allegedly doing that famous mediation of which there was nothing, and the real reason was just to take some more money and to be able to live in a manner worthy of man. Your right, as a representative of the government and the ruling coalition, to praise what you have done, is ours to dispute, but you have failed to answer one of my questions, which is: how this bill on the responsibility of the manufacturer for things with a lack of improvement, i.e. to increase and give some new rights to any citizen of Serbia, and what might be even more important – how is this law in this essential connection with any other of these four laws, set of five, which we are discussing together today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20712	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20713	Dear President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I will say a few things about this set of laws on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, above all about the law on violations, because there are two laws left, amendments and additions to the Law on the election of judges and on the organisation of courts relating to the law on violations, and I will also say a few words about the draft law on amendments and additions to the law which provides fines for commercial offences and violations, because I think that should be said. I think it's a good thing the Serbian Parliament is discussing the law on violations. I hope that it will be adopted because I personally think, as well as the MP group of the SPS, that it is good that the issue of the work of the courts for violations and the question of the status of the judges for violations is resolved this way, because so far the courts for violations have been somewhere between the administration and the judiciary, with some special status, represented a hybrid in our system. Now they practically become part of the judiciary by this law. That's good, it's good that we meet and what's part of the normative arrangement in EU countries, because there are more reasons for that. The content of this law shows that many solutions to the Law on Violations have been identified by the Criminal Code. It went to some system, a methodologically similar system, and I think that's good. Generally, I must say that at least so far as we are ordinary citizens, we have been familiar with the offences, those who drive it know, when they do not manage the motor vehicle properly, so when they are the subject of the offence, and ordinary citizens have informed or learned about it when it comes to some incidents in sports competitions, in the years before certain demonstrations or similar events, and when it happens in certain Serbian cities, that the behaviour of people in a larger scale, which requires the reaction of courts for violations, because that urgency was a mark of the work of the judge for violations. In our recent political history, since 2000 and so on, the offenses were most discussed when the counter-revolutional government – DOS-ovska resorted to one solution, illegal and violent, and when a number of judges for violations, because of the implementation of the Law on Infringements, simply got away from work. For those who do not know, you remember years ago when a number of judges in Belgrade, for implementing the Information Law, was suspended from work. At that time, 54 judges were proposed for resolution in Belgrade. It is little known that this City Court for Infractions, of the requirements received, was as much a requirement for the implementation of the Information Law, 92% of these requirements were rejected at the outset and no proceedings were conducted for these 92% of the cases. Those 8% of the remaining cases that were subject to the judge's work for the offense, unfortunately, were the basis for these people to be subject to DOS sanctions. There were 54 motions for resolution. Within three days, believe it or not, perhaps Mr. Minister doesn't know this information, and the other colleagues certainly don't know, within three days, of those 54 judges who were proposed to be resolved, 37 have gone into the ranks of DHSS and other DOS parties, to get a formal basis not to be resolved. Within three days, 37 judges crossed over, formally becoming members of political parties, the DHSS and other DOS parties, thus avoiding the basis for resolution, as there was no other basis for political action. 17 of them were cleared. Unfortunately, one of them, who had the best scores at Belgrade level, was killed for it. It's a tragedy that shows how cruel it can be to people who absolutely apply the law and do their job. These 17 people were replaced by the law. The Supreme Court, that should be known, has returned all these people to work because he has reached a verdict that has assessed that the law has been misappropriated. However, these people, who were returned by the Supreme Court by their decision, were later deployed by the minister of justice throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from Presevo to Sudotica. It even happened that people from Belgrade went far from Belgrade to do the job. You can see how that was done. In Belgrade, a man who was later removed from the post was appointed for abuse of his official position and is being prosecuted today by several criminal proceedings. It best speaks of the quality of the people who came to these places. In any case, in our recent political history, it was the time when the most talked about judges for violations and courts. The SPS thinks this law is good. When you look at its contents, you see that there are many elements that are clear. I have two more things to mention here that I think are important when it comes to this law, which is the way the judges choose. It would be best if you did, since you're going to be 31. 06. In 2006, determine the total number of judges for offences, from 31. 06. The election of the number of judges will be held by the end of 2006 and a new way of selecting judges is envisioned. So far, it's been a matter of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It can be assumed that such a way of choosing the judges themselves for violations led to a state of uncertainty, because no matter how much they worked, no matter how much they did, it was no effect at all, no matter how high-quality enforcement of the job, law enforcement. It could have happened to them at the next government session to be resolved. I mentioned these examples that represent these eclectic cases. It is a good thing that the election procedure is improved, that he has one mark, I will not use the word "democratic", because that word has been abused many times since this counter-revolution on October 5th, so to speak, but that there is greater public insight in proposing and selecting candidates for judges. I must say that, as a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, I have been in a position to see more than once that the High Council of Justice itself is not consistent when it proposes some candidates for judges, so I must, in this direction, in this regard, express my own reservations about how the High Council will propose candidates, but I will talk about it when there is a point of choice for people in the judiciary, and that is the 17th point of the agenda. For today, I think it is enough to say that it is better than the solution so far – that the Government appoints, it is better that the High Council proposes, and that the Assembly discusses these candidates. Practically, the Assembly will be in a position to discuss each of the proposed candidates and on the basis of the information that MPs receive, and believe me that in gro-cases it shows that the information that MPs have is the most qualitative and accurate. Then the National Assembly, and through the National Assembly and the public of Serbia, will be in a position to assess the quality of these proposed people much better than before. I have one more thing to say about the law on violations. There are four types of penalties: fines, prison sentences, voluntary work and points to withdraw a driver's license. When it comes to fines, the fact is that the courts for violations of their jobs provided a very large part of the money in the budget within the judiciary for the Republic of Serbia's budget. The implementation of the solution was over 60% in early 2000 at Belgrade level, and after these changes, when DOS people came, it fell below 15%. That's well known, but that's how the law was implemented. In objective terms, judges for violations will be in one problem, given that they will have to know a very large number of laws, because these provisions on violations are in a large number of laws. They will be in a position to show more than others the ability to understand the content of many laws, certainly several hundred, because they will have to apply the provisions of this law under these laws. When it comes to the law on violations, the SAA believes that this law should be passed and that this is a good step forward from the point of view of both the normative and the real position of the judges for the judiciary. It's a good thing "infractions" are finally in court on a regular basis. A few more words about amendments and additions to the law that determines fines for commercial offences and violations. I must say that, like my fellow SPS MPs, when we saw changes and additions to this law, and since these amendments and additions to the law do not say exactly what these monetary values and penalties for violations are about, I was surprised at the height of certain penalties, violations. However, when I have taken a few laws, which is not difficult, it is easy to get there, and when I have compared the content of these laws, i.e. the proposed penalties, believe me, it is not as tragic as it looks or wants to be presented. Experience has shown that fines are sometimes the best medicine to get through your pocket as fast as possible and that this is the best way to get some people into a state of law or to get smart in order to respect the law. The question is how in the mentality of our people is acceptable verbal persuasion or punishments that have no essence, but this way through their pockets, many will think about what they do and how they do. For example, I will mention only a few criminal provisions of the traffic safety law, where it is mentioned, e.g. that by fine, it was earlier from 500 dinars to 5,000 new dinars, we take this as an ecultant example, and now it is proposed – with a fine of 80,000 to 800,000 dinars will be fined for the violation ofOUR, SIZ or another legal person, and now there are several conditions, if, when determined etc. To show how much it makes sense to quote – "if you order or allow buses in inter-urban transport to be added to the passenger transport vehicle". It is quite logical if such a thing were to be done that those who do so should be subject to sanctions, the subject of the law or if they ordered or allowed the transport of persons to buses and trolleys to be carried out against the provisions of the law or fines of 60,000 to 600,000 new dinars, and earlier the solution was from 450 dinars to 4,500 dinars. It will be punishable for the violation of a joint work organisation, a self-administrative community and a driver training centre or another legal person, and then listed at 41st point if they do so. There are such logical things that, absolutely, they should be punished if they did something that would be contrary to the provisions of the law. For example, if the training of a candidate for drivers does not comply with the provisions of that and that member. You know the consequences yourself if someone is not well-trained as a driver: he will be sitting in a vehicle tomorrow, driving the roads of Serbia and causing some car accident where there will be human and material casualties, or if training a driver's candidate is against the provisions of the law, or if he orders or allows candidates to train a motor vehicle driver who is under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating agents, sick, tired or in such a mental state that he is unable to exercise safe control over the candidate he is training. We are witnessing that training schools are zero as mushrooms after the rain, and it is good that there are such provisions that there are simply a lot of thought about the law and its application, or what sanctions are for non-compliance with the law. I mention the Law on Citizens' Gathering, where the fine is now 5,000 instead of 1,000 new dinars, which is insignificant for this political reality, that the fine of 5,000 dinars will be fined, i.e. a prison sentence will be punished for the violation of a public rally that has not taken measures to maintain order at a public rally. From the point of view of our political reality, it is a meaningless punishment in relation to the organisation of a political gathering, etc. The Law on Public Order and Peace has a great deal of examples in the section relating to violations where it is practically seen how good it is to increase the fine, because here it mentions a fine of 500 new dinars for those who harass others by fighting or shouting; or a fine of 1,000 new dinars for burning missiles and other flammable means; or for reselling tickets for cinemas, sports and other manifestations is the punishment of 700 new dinars, believe it or not, which is a very ridiculous sum compared to the reality that exists. I took these ten examples to show practically that it makes sense that the provisions of the law have been amended and that it makes sense that larger amounts of money are proposed. When it comes to the Traffic Safety Act, the work relating to criminal provisions, the same monetary solutions as so far in most members, and there are no changes. I took these cases on purpose, of course, not to argue that there will probably be others who may be an argument of another nature, but of their own absolute opinion, and my fellow MPs from the SAA, that it is good because of the obsolescence of certain provisions relating to these amounts, to carry out these changes and to adopt this law, because people who do the opposite of the law should be subject to sanctions and should count on that, in addition to moral sanctions, if anyone takes care of it, they will be subject to monetary sanctions, so they will think deeply about what they are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20714	After the minister, Takac Istvan, followed by Sreto Peric, then Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20715	I want to say two sentences purely informative. MP Obradovic said the bill fell to 15% in Belgrade. After the personnel changes at the head of those organs, I can tell you that it has returned to over 60%, and what I checked personally in Serbia's field is somewhere between 73% and 82%. When a charge is made at 82% believe that it is almost ideal, given the material situation of people and the inability to pay a certain number of persons who are punished. By the way, about this range, I think it should be big. We all say it's a great punishment, but when it happens to us that the rockets get killed in the stadium, then it lasts for days and we wonder how long we'll tolerate it. So we have to take certain measures and achieve what we need, which is that one England that couldn't survive these things from the hooligan riots today doesn't have to have a fence, one is peace and absolute order at the games. That's what I'm saying as one of the examples. I fully agree with you that this range should be higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20716	The People's Messenger Taker has the word. Istvan's not here. The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, and then let the preparations of Petar Cvetkovic, Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just to inform the public of Serbia that before this set of laws, we had on the agenda a debate on the day of mourning in Serbia, so we had the beginning of a debate on this set of five laws a sad situation that during the presentation of Justice Minister Stojkovic, there were 12 MPs from the parliamentary groups who support this government. Now the situation has improved somewhat, more are present, but a slow spill is expected, but it is not the topic I want to talk about right now. I am surprised that Minister Stojkovic, who is regularly present at all meetings of the Justice Committee and who has been present all along as a representative of the government when it comes to some laws, is now objectively what he has come out of it, and why we agree to unite five laws to conduct a single debate, especially since there are two laws that do not have something similar or related to these laws. That's what MP Nemanja Sarovic talked about a little bit more, so let me just say what laws it is. A bill on the responsibility of a producer of things with shortages, which doesn't regulate anything in particular. It's the law on bond relations regulated. Proposal for a law amending laws laying down fines for commercial offences and offences. The bill – Mr Obradovic said that at first it did not know what it was about, only saw an increase in penalties and it seemed to be a big increase, and then when he worked out a little bit more thoroughly, he saw that it was not so bad, but the finding of the MPs of the SRS group was that the amendment and addition of the law was about to be followed by a finance minister who wanted to do so, by dragging his hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens, to raise as many funds as possible from people who, at this point in Serbia, are having a hard time living anyway. Then, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. These are two laws whose amendments and additions were made logically from the amendment of the Law on Violations. The law on violations is a law that governs and the SRS parliamentary group has nothing to do with it. In fact, we believe that it is time to resolve it in one way, but the question is whether this is the best time to talk about it, especially when it is read when this law will enter into force; you saw that by 30 June 2006, it is mandatory to regulate it, or to determine the number of judges for violations, by 31 December 2006, that elections will take place, and on 1 January 2007, it will start to apply this law. So, a year and something, or about 15 months until the law is applied, it indicates, and all these laws are under emergency procedure, that there is not so much urgency and need to put these legal proposals in place at this point. It seems to me that we have more serious things that had to have priority over this. As for the solution to the status of judges in the law enforcement authorities – that they have so far not had the status of judges or civil servants, it is high time for the problem to be resolved, because judges for violations in the law enforcement authorities have pronounced sentences and prison sentences, so they can and must be only the authorities in the justice system and that is now absolutely fine. Then, there is an increase in some fines, in this law on violations, and it is also known that the authorities of local self-government can, when predicting and prescribing, or determining violations, provide for also fines for double what this law provides. This can be supported, especially when we know that in local self-government we have certain offences arising from respect for the duration of working time in catering and similar facilities, where there is, very often, a breach of public order and peace, where local self-government, or SO could provide for a fine of 500,00 dinar. Now this law gives the local assembly the opportunity to increase the amount of money and that is something that will certainly show good results in practice, especially when we know that we have had a law on the agenda these days to prevent doping in sport, so these problems need to be solved from there and started with a very wide and big action. When it comes to this law of violations, it can be divided into two parts. The first part is material nature. He in one solid and correct way defines the concept of violations and a number of other basic provisions, and the other part of this law on violations is procedural nature, and he mainly rewritten or dealt with that problem that the Criminal Code treated, and perhaps it could not have been introduced because of rationality, that I did not get the impression that something epochal happened here, that something very important and well written, and could have happened. In his explanation, the minister said that all that was not established by this law would be applied to the provisions of the Criminal Code and I think that a lot of the provisions had been introduced into the law on violations, which may have been excessive and perhaps it didn't have to come to that. It is interesting, just to return to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, I have already paraphrased the provision of Article 79. It is a decision on the number of judges in criminal courts, and will be made by 1 July 2006, and the election will be by 31 December 2006. Article 3 of that Act states - a senior infringement court will take over from the infringement council, and the infringement courts from the municipal law enforcement authorities need the number of employees who have carried out the tasks of the work of those bodies. So, the number needed, and in one member of the law on the regulation of courts, it says that all material assets and personnel from the council will take over, which leaves one possibility to the judges, I mean those judges for violations, to start thinking about putting themselves in certain political parties, which in no way would be good to do so because of the resolution of their status, and we essentially don't mind someone expressing their political belonging. In fact, you know that we point out the objections when you establish a new body and you say, it must not belong to any political party and it happens that a man who is elected to be a trustee, the day before the Assembly or the Government appoints him to that place resigns to membership, I mean some party where he belonged and whose appointment, in fact, is due to some kind of political agreement and attitude, to place him in that place, but that basically means nothing. I'm afraid of something else. So, because of a solution to their status, because they don't start to cross, it's known what the situation before this minister was, I mean the authorities of the judiciary, where they joined, which party it is, and I'm saying I'm worried that this might happen now, because we know that the party to which the minister belongs, and it shows a good level of knowledge and one good approach to this problem, but a large number of judicial authorities, could now start to join a party belonging to the resolution minister. It is not an object, we will not deal with it, but we just want the judges who perform this and other functions to be professional as the minister has said, and if he thinks so and shows in practice, therefore, first of all, consistency and expertise, to be those recommendations that will be made to us by the MPs in the Assembly in the appointment of the holders of judicial functions, to be something that has the greatest weight and greatest importance. The law on violations also takes a step forward in quality, which will now be a single second-degree body in solving the violations, which has not been the case so far, so Serbian citizens had different treatments in different councils. So, it wasn't one uniform practice, and by applying this law, we're going to be in a position to create one uniform practice in a senior court of law and it's supposed to have three departments. So it will be in Pristina, Novi Sad and Nis, and Belgrade will likely be the headquarters, there will be no departments, which is why one such situation is not foreseen for Belgrade. We've had 11 major violations as second-degree bodies so far, and it's certain that this number has led to inequality in the expression of those infringements. If the minister were there, I only wanted to point out one thing - many decisions, or judgments are not carried out, and it should be paid particular attention to this because of the situation, personally, I think it was most disrupted at the time of the previous minister, where it was not important to judge by law, which a large number of judges accepted and did, but by some politicality. Some decisions, i.e. judgments are not carried out and attention should be paid, negative selection should be prevented in courts. We know that because of the objective problems in the judiciary, there is much faster progress, because a large number of high-quality judges because of the situation in the court and because of material receipts, decide to work in the law, progress faster. Interestingly, about this one sentence – collecting points to take away a driver's license. In earlier times, a young and beautiful girl, driving a car, committed a felony punishable by drilling a hole in a driver's license. When the person who had to apply that measure read a better name, he saw that it was the daughter of one of the ministers and he quickly took that driver's license and wrote – this hole is not a hole. So let the minister take a little account of those who need to implement these laws, make the controls adequate and bigger, because that's what the citizens of Serbia want and demand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20718	Thank you, Mr. Peric, another apology for that lapus earlier. The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, followed by Ambassador Branislav Rankic and Išpanović Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to talk about a set of proposed laws, which are on today's agenda, which, before my predecessor, was also a respected colleague, Peric, in that part, concerning the professional explanation and professional criticism of the proposed laws, was very commendable, or commendably expressed himself on all proposals of the law, especially on the Law of Infringements. I must therefore point out that there is no more important disagreement with regard to the proposed law solutions between political parties or parliamentary groups in this House. We will put aside political bickering and on-call criticism of ruling parties or the current Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we start with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the proposed laws prove a rule that has been in place for a long time, which has been applied in practice in practice, which is that in principle and in a huge part, quality laws are given for discussion and adoption in this parliament. Starting with the Law on Infringements, I must point out that the so far solutions in the Law on Infringements in Serbia were the rest of the previous period and different social arrangements, different political and social relations and economic relations, at the very end of the line. Over the years, it has been pointed out by the professional public and by the international and European community, that the solutions that are in practice, i.e. the solutions adopted in the Law on Infringements do not match modern legal practice and modern legal and civilization democratic solutions in developed democratic states. In particular, they do not comply with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The objection comes for the basic reason, because one, I would say, conditionally, the para-state authorities, the courts for the offences, or the authorities for the offences, one as a sui generis state authority, which had powers under both the law of some jurisdiction and jurisdiction, as well as the court, as well as the judge, could impose a sentence of imprisonment which is directly contrary to the above mentioned European Convention, which in that part is explicit and not just a convention, but all European and world conventions in the area of protection of citizens' rights, which is explicit in that only courts can impose a sentence of imprisonment or detention. This is, in addition to the first problem, where an authority, which is not a court, nor a state body, could conduct a procedure under some rules, where even the Criminal Procedure Act was applied, in the absence of solutions given by the Law on Infringements. Also, there is this second and insolvent legal problem, an enigma, where such a para-state, i.e. an organ of sui generis, the body of the violations can impose a sentence of a prison for which it is authorised under the Convention, that is, by all democratic rights of the democratic states, to impose the only court. Those two problems aren't the only ones. There are a number of problems, but these two problems I've identified are sufficient reasons to pass a new law on violations. We were witnesses of our timely proposed Law on Masters, a foreign word for domestic purposes, at the time of 2001, 2002 or 2003, however, and another bill, which was withdrawn from the procedure, because the uncritically introduced solutions of other legal systems and solutions from the practices of other European countries. This was, in principle, the draft law maker, he was proportionate to where he was educated, or God forbid that he was under some other influence, and those solutions from these European countries were applied without a certain critical dose to the solution in Serbia, which is unreliable and can cause significantly greater problems than the ones we have been in function, especially in the Law of Infringements and Infringements. We also had a first-degree trial in the Law of Infractions, popularly called "judgmental Judges" in the people, and in the second-degree higher for violations, which existed in numbers of 11 at the level of Serbia, where the second-degree procedure ended, where in practice there was an unequal legal practice, i.e. the application of the law. In Serbia, there were 11, conditionally said, parallel justice systems under the application of the Law on Violations and the application of infringements. The problem was solved by this draft law on violations, noting that the problems of the earlier law and the draft law on magistrates were avoided, as there was plenty of time for public debate. I will remind you, the bill was presented in the assembly procedure on 25 July 2005, and now it is on the agenda, so before the proposal was made, that is, at the stage of the draft, and even now, at the stage of the bill, there was plenty of time for all objections relating to the content of the law. As I said at the outset, there were no fundamental objections to legal solutions, nor could there be in view of the bill. It is inevitable that Serbia is not an island outside of space and time, that it is not an isolated part of the universe or an isolated part of Europe, that Serbia must be within the framework of the European and world legal order, and that its laws and that its legal system must be aligned with the legal system of the European Union, in so far as the task is generally accepted and the intention of all relevant parties that Serbia's future is in the European Union. I would add, Serbia has always been part of Europe, and it is time for Europe to come to Serbia. This law also achieves equalisation of the legal system in that area of the offence. Amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the Law on Courts are necessary for the purpose of the adoption of a new law on infringements, and the same provision is for a sequential court to establish a higher court for infringements. The offenses will be in court jurisdiction. The provisions of the law, i.e. procedural provisions applicable to the application before regular courts, will be applied in full to the purpose and removal of current problems in the domain of application, i.e. penalties for infringements. Therefore, these laws should, in any case, be accepted because the essential fundamental remarks which would apply to the matter of the law and the proposals made by this law were not made. As I said, I will ignore political criticism, because for political criticism, especially unargued, there is always room. With regard to amendments and additions to laws that suggest increased penalties for violations, I will say only one sentence, that it is the wrong approach of critics who say that citizens do not have enough means to live, so we take away from them the enormous penalties and the lack of resources for life and basic provisions. It's a replacement thesis and it's a completely wrong approach to this problem. Prohibited punishments and great penalties are being met by prevention and the objective of deterring, i.e. great punishments, deter the execution of offences, in addition to the execution of criminal acts, but this is a topic for one other area. So, the more the punishments are threatened, the more likely they are, the more likely they are to try, to commit a crime in a possible perpetrator, much less. One more thing I could remind myself, in principle, in the large part of the execution of the sentence for the offence committed, is, however, in the vast part, the will of the perpetrator needed, in a significantly smaller part is sufficient to stop and not by any kind of stop. And thus, with the possible perpetrator, the more threatened punishment affects the fact that they are deficient, literally speaking, possibilities and attempts to commit a crime. It is therefore necessary to maintain a higher level and a higher level of impediment, which in practice, application and individual punishment will be able to achieve a certain individualisation and thus a certain justice in the expression of penalties and criminal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20720	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The word is given by MP Branislav Rankic, then Išpanović Istvan, then Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk a little bit more about the bill on the responsibility of the producer of the lack of things. Seeing as she's been avoiding herself so far, except for something that's been said on a flat-rate basis, she's talking about this law. Here it is explained that this law is the result of two EEZ directives, and I will remind you that around four such economic communities have led to the formation of the European Union and, of course, this directive does not commit us to anything, even though we are not a member of the EU. I don't know why an emergency procedure in this session to find a law like this, but once it's found, I'm going to make my basic remarks on this bill. It looks like the translators have translated a lot of this. I don't know whose legislation this was taken from. Article 1 states that this law regulates the responsibility of the manufacturer for the damage caused by the lack of things. The bill says – products with a lack, or responsibility of the manufacturer of "failing things", would be more logical to write – "from the product with lack" than things. Article 2 defines what "producer, within the meaning of this law." It is said that – the manufacturer, within the meaning of this law, is the person who produces finished products, raw materials and components. The most logical thing is that the manufacturer, within the meaning of this law, is a legal and physical person, foreign and domestic, as is common in the laws translated, hence, foreign and domestic. If we can't treat the later provisions, then the importer, but that's the legal and physical person he manufactures, the raw materials and the components. We've had a division so far, when it comes to these things, to raw materials, semi-products and products. Because a semi-product doesn't always have to be an integral part of something else. That's where I'll remind you, let's say, the semi-product is technically a tree. He's in mines with cave exploitation, especially when it's acacia, often serves as a subgrade, as miners say. It's not an integral part of something, it's a subgrade. So what happens if someone who produces and supplies a mine with such a tree produces a tree that does not meet certain conditions to endure the pressure that occurs in the pit, who in that case is responsible? No one, because it's not an integral part of something. It was supposed to say here that these are raw materials, semi-products and products, not components. Article 3 says "product, in the sense of this law." It is said that – the product, within the meaning of this law, is a moving thing, separate or embedded in another moving or immovable thing. Really, incomprehensible. The translators have translated something again, it seems they're not getting it right. I'll remind you, we have an MP in the MP's group who has a nursery. The seedling is not a moving thing, as you know, and the product is. If you define the product, then the seedling is not a moving thing. It is just so much that it is transferred from one place to another and it is still becoming a motionless thing. If you're looking at it in a broader sense, I'll remind you that everything can be a moving thing, so for the time being, when the Đerdap I Hydrocentre was built, part of Donji Milanovac, which was supposed to be flooded, some of the facilities were moved and transferred to another place in the same shape. So it's possible that what we traditionally think of as immovable things, too, are mobile things. So in this law, it is evident that it is quick written, it is evident that someone has tried to do something here, which is why we would harmonize, as we say, our economic and trade relations with EU countries, what is really not true here. Article 3(1) states that the product, within the meaning of this law, is a moving matter either separated or incorporated into another moving or immovable matter. I said that's not good. But it had to stand here, and if you wrote it like this, it was meant for sale, because then it's a product. If someone does a moving thing that's made up of some other moving or motionless thing and didn't take it out on the market, if someone in their house, for their own purposes, like, make a chair, then it's not a product under this law. Here, in this first position, it must appear that this is intended for sale because that is what Article 8 obliges us to do when it is determined when the manufacturer of the missing things will not be responsible. Also, it's not said what's wrong with the products, it's said here -- law on things with lack, which won't cause damage, or haven't caused damage, but these are products with lack. I'll remind you of one example from 15 years ago, so I don't think the association, or the Consumer Union, is consulted on this law, they'd have any objections. In France, the buyer found a piece of wood in a kilo of coffee. This product did not cause any damage. He noticed the tree and removed it, so he drank coffee, but the manufacturer, the one who put it on the market, over it the manufacturer suffered certain sanctions, so by then they offered not to put it in the press, because it would have dropped their sales. So what about products that obviously have a deficiency, like this case, that's not described here, and it won't cause any damage, so that someone can because they've suffered damage requires a certain compensation. There are many things that are not defined in this law. Also, I do not understand in Article 12 why products with a deficiency, with a flaw, would not include those products that come into the country on the issue – what includes ratified international contracts. What does that mean? This means, if we have an international agreement with a country on imports of certain products, does this mean that if these products enter with a shortage in our country, that we have no right to end up looking for a consumer, that the end consumer does not have any right, that in the end, is seeking any compensation for any damage they have not suffered, which they could have suffered. Let me move on to the next law, because I'm going to talk about the other laws very briefly. For me it is under item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. There was an intervention here, where it was necessary to work on the salaries of judges and what is more logically logical, I am not a lawyer, but in Article 4 of the existing Law, where it said that the judge had the right to pay the right to maintain his independence and the safety of his family, it now writes – the judge has the right to pay enough to maintain his independence and the safety of his family. It would be best if this member were deleted, as Article 30 fully regulates how the judge's salary is actually defined, how the High Council of Justice can propose an increase, when and how the minister will approve it. But here, to be in a member that the judge has the right to pay enough to maintain his independence and the safety of his family, it's really incomprehensible to me. You know that once upon a time, there was one principle that time showed that it was not feasible, and that is, from everyone according to the possibilities, to everyone according to the needs. I'll remind you that judges have different needs. It's enough for someone to be independent by being honest. It's not enough for someone to give them what they pay, if he's not a decent man, he won't be independent, he'll depend on some people. Here's an example of a judge from Bor, a woman who's a mother of five. It takes a lot more to be independent than some judges who have fewer obligations on this issue. That's the five students she sends to school. How she's going to get paid, how many kids she has, and how much she's got enough to make her independent. It can't stand in the law. Article 4 was to be completely deleted, since the salaries were arranged. I won't talk much about the draft law on violations, my colleagues will say more, but I will comment on Articles 52 and 53. Article 52 refers to a ban on the management of motor vehicles. If it's a felony, you can be punished by a prison sentence. The last view says that the time spent in the maintenance of the prison sentence is not included in the duration of the ban on the withdrawal of the driver's license. It's been discussed before, and I don't think this is right, because if someone's convicted of jail time, he can't drive a motor vehicle anyway. So he's physically disabled to drive a motor vehicle. It is not necessary that, at a sustained level of prison, which is stronger than the withdrawal of a driver's license, he is subsequently subject to sanctions for the withdrawal of a driver's license. Article 53 speaks of the mandatory treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts. Maybe that's not what it was supposed to be called, maybe it could have been called about the mandatory treatment of those who have addiction disease, because besides drug abuse and alcoholics, there are more addiction diseases. What's that that's illogical? It's illogical that he won't be able to provide this kind of treatment. First, because the facilities of health institutions dealing with the treatment of these diseases are very low. Secondly, it is a large number and an increasing number of young people who are married to alcohol and drug abuse, and among them is the largest number of delinquents to be punished by mandatory treatment measures. Third and most importantly, the state has no money. These are usually very expensive and long-term treatments. The question is whether the person who is given the mandatory treatment measure will be able to pay for that compulsory treatment or not, and if not, who will pay for his treatment, and if he has the money to pay for the treatment, and he doesn't want to, you didn't prescribe how he will be treated.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20722	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan has the word, and let Petar Jojic be prepared, then Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20723	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the framework of this joint principle debate, I would only talk about the law on violations, which is practically the most significant law of these laws that we are considering today. I think it was high time and necessary to pass one of these laws. We know when the previous Law of Infractions was passed, with countless changes over the last 15 or 16 years. That's one reason. The second reason is that the actual position of these law enforcement authorities was not regulated in the right way, it was not known exactly what the judicial authorities should be, given that they also imposed prison sentences or the authorities of the administration. Now it's satisfactorily resolved. In addition, as explained by the law, and some other MPs have said, it was necessary to adapt our infringement legislation with various international conventions and with the breaking legislation of some other European countries if we want to get closer to the EU, that is, to be members of the EU one day. He would talk more specifically about two provisions: the provisions of Article 34, which are criminal points for driving a motor vehicle. That solution has so far not been known in our legislation. For a long time, however, it has been applied to other European countries' legislation. This solution has yielded some good results when expressing these measures for various infringements. Of course, this will not be applied directly now. It is necessary in the traffic safety law to establish those points that will be pronounced for a certain offence. I must point out that there have been wandering in the legislation of various countries, so when we bring this traffic safety law, it is necessary to measure well what violation there will be of these criminal points. Other countries, too, when they introduced those criminal points, had to change later because they found that it was not working, because the largest number of drivers did not meet those criminal points for two or three years, which were thought to still be committing such violations that should be withdrawn from the licence. I don't know if this bill is being prepared, but it seems to me that one mistake has been stolen. In this regard, Article 34(5) provides for those penalty points to be added in two years. I would ask Mr. Minister who has come, and in the light of the law, it is said that these penalty points will be collected in three years, so the argument is likely to have been changed later or the bill has been introduced instead of two years. (From the scene, Zoran Stojkovic: There may have been an error in typing. Yeah, well, the argument hasn't changed. Otherwise, I would also advocate for two years, because I think these points should serve on exceptional occasions, and we have such drivers who, unfortunately, need to be withdrawn from the driver's license after a certain number of violations, although they did not commit such a violation which, by today's crimes, could not be withdrawn from the license, and it is necessary that these relatively small violations still be withdrawn. Another institute I would like to talk about, and other laws, are the use of language in a misdemeanor procedure. We probably have a problem with the fact that there's one regulation on the use of language. That regulation hasn't been changed. It seems to have been passed in 1992. It was necessary so far to amend that regulation. In this law, language use is not well regulated. This immediately results in regulation in other laws on the use of language, and this law says that the infringement procedure is conducted in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the official use of language and letter. What does it look like in some places where national minorities live? There comes a party who does not know the language, and the judge does not know the languages of the national minorities, and then asks: "Are you agreeing that my dactylographer translates? ". These are ridiculous situations, and unfortunately, I know they happen very often. This is not a good solution, so it should be dealt with in some other way, because it is not good for a dactylograph to translate to a judge, or to a stranger. I'm not sure this way, as provided for in Article 86, will be handled well. Not to say that there are no first-degree decisions to be made in the language of national minorities. I doubt there will be a judge in the second-degree body who will know the languages of the national minorities. Then this means, as in the ordinary court procedure, that every piece of paper in the file is translated into Serbian, because only the bigger one will be able to decide. It is not the happiest solution, so I would ask the minister, who already knows, because I am not talking about this problem for the first time, if the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters is amended, to find some solution that will satisfy both the state and members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20724	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, then Goran Rakovac, then Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20725	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft law on violations. Personally, I think this law must have been fully in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure. His synchronization must be in general. The procedure to be applied in the infringement procedure must be identical to the procedure conducted before the competent court for offences, in fact, is a procedure that should be conducted in an identical manner. Of the 305 members to be applied, provisions of the applicable Law have been taken over, in the predominantly part. I'm not going to name numbers and members here, because I compared the text of the bill to the Law on Infractions, which is valid and which was brought back in 1995. I must say that we, both before the European Union and its requirement to comply with our regulations with the European Union, have brought our legislation into line with comparable legislation and, above all, with the legislation of European countries. Our country has ratified thousands of regulations and contracts that it has assumed to comply with its regulations. 1994-1995. There were 12,000 laws and regulations that our country agreed with EU countries, where Angolan law was also applied. This law is in that part of codification, so to speak, of a misdemeanor procedure conducted before the court for violations, as well as by the authorities of the administration. However, I am of the opinion that amendments and additions should have been made, as this would have avoided the copying of the provisions of the applicable Law. What was I supposed to change? Circumstances and practices impose that regulations must adapt to life, due to changed circumstances and emerging situations. What is important in this bill – what is really changing? We have a change of nature, instead of a law enforcement body, we now have a court of offense. Instead of the solutions made by the law enforcement authority, we now have a verdict. As a newspaper, we have in this bill work in the public interest. The question here is how much has been brought into line with that provision of Chapter XXIX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been removed and which represents one rounded continent, which refers to the case of minors in criminal proceedings. Of course there's been a change. I note that we have invested a number of amendments to improve the text. The issue now is the minister, as a member of the government, whether to accept or not the SRS amendments. Our intention was good, and we think that some amendments should be accepted, because it would improve the text and be more effective. As far as the infringement proceedings are concerned, we are of the opinion that in general they should be applied in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that this should be pointed out, that in practice it is not misused or distorted in that direction that judges for offences will understand that their law on offences is exclusively a certain procedure, and not in the light of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The most important are the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Violations and the Police Act. These are the three laws which, above all, show in one country what democracy is, what a criminal act is, which apply competent and authorised, and, above all, the court, what a misdemeanour is, how citizens are treated, and how human rights are respected in criminal and criminal proceedings and in those powers that the police have. So these three laws measure the degree of democracy in each country. That is why we believe that the law on violations and the law on police must be synchronised, in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure. In what case? In the event of a call to the citizens, in case of a drive-in, because the in-in is saying the police brought him in. Based on what? It was brought by the police under the order of a judge for violations, an investigative judge or by his own authority if a police officer powers the law on police, that is, the recent Internal Affairs Act. Basic human rights must be respected in general in the case of detention, detention. We call the person if he has any knowledge that he might give us some information about the criminal procedure, but we're applying a polygraph to him. Secondly, when we bring a face to the house six hours before it is due to approach that authority that has given the order to be brought in – at one hour a person goes home, a man is brought in, he stays in the police rooms and he is deprived of his freedom. It's not a drive-by. The moment a police officer rang at his door and told him to come with me based on orders and so, he's deprived of freedom and he can't go to work now, he can't go to a bar, he can't go anywhere, he has to go with that authorized official. That man is a Jedi for six hours in the premises of an authority that obeys either its orders or the order of the court for violations or executes a court order, or an investigative judge. Six hours a man's waiting, but there's no proper holding room. It would be good if we had in the police the right rooms where the faces should be held. The deadlines for detention and detention are too great. It is foreseen in some provisions that he will be handed over to the person in 24 hours from the time of his arrest. He doesn't travel from Munich, from Subotica to Vranja or to Preshev, it doesn't take more than four or five hours, six hours. What's it gonna be 24 hours? The mirror of democracy in one country is exactly the law on violations, the law on criminal proceedings and the law on police. In any case, we will, in particular, explain some of our amendments, look at the particulars of those provisions that we consider important, which in any case we do not consider to be unnecessary to amend or supplement, and the proposal for a new law has been adopted at the discretion of the promoters. Therefore, the SRS remains in the process of proposing to the MPs of this Parliament to adopt the amendments we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20726	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, then Zoran Antic, then Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the debate so far, and members of all the political parties that exist in this House, have appeared to show that it is a good move for the government of Serbia and the restoring ministry to propose one of these legislation to the National Assembly for adoption. When I say that the discussion has shown that this move is good, I base this opinion on discussions that have been devoid of more serious criticism of the bill that we have before us, and above all I mean the law on a violation which is the biggest legal act that we need to adopt in the voting day. Namely, as we ourselves know, a substance that includes criminal responsibility, a misdemeanor, and at all, is more than extensive and as such has not been properly regulated in our country. This law comprehensively regulates this matter and a series of concerns that so far existed in our legal order, both in theory and in practice trying and in my deep conviction, gives the right to resolve these dilemmas. When I say that it solves many questions both theoretically and practically, we need first of all to go from what were the main reasons, which were the main disturbances that we have so many violations today, that our law enforcement authorities today are ineffective and we simply have one hybrid system, that many of the previous speakers have used the term, both in terms of the authorities that have acted in the breaking matter and in terms of the infringement process itself and in general in terms of this matter. In fact, several speakers pointed out that the status of a law enforcement body has so far been completely undefined. It was undefined both their one-sided status and their way of doing it. The very fact that this term hybrid is used and that the current law enforcement authorities did not represent in a narrow sense both administrative and judicial bodies, says that they are not properly founded in our legal system. I'd say this isn't about a hybrid, because that hybrid has been mutating since it was passed, so it now represents something between half the women, half the fish. The fact that these authorities carry out the procedure, the fact that these authorities determine the responsibility of the offender and the fact that these authorities impose an appropriate criminal sanction, including the prescribed and certain prison sentences, speaks in itself of not only that these authorities, procedures and types of sanctions that are justified are not fully justified and in line with our judicial system, are not in line with modern European systems. In fact, he is no longer allowed anywhere, and he cannot allow a single authority closer to the administrative authority than the judicial authority to impose, among other things, a prison sentence. This is one of the reasons why this law had to be passed and why it had to be right to determine the status of the authority to carry out the infringement procedure and that these authorities, among other things, comply with our judicial system. And for that, among other things, we have the following laws that we have on the agenda today. The fact that the existing authorities, the judge for the first proceedings, must have completed a law school, must have passed a judicial exam, must have a certain time spent, whether in a judicial or other body, so that, if not completely, they, at least, are prescribed similar conditions as for judges who judge before general courts, before regular courts. Thus, as well as the fact that they are carrying out a procedure that is very close to criminal proceedings under this law, which has many institutes which they know and criminal proceedings, shows that it is necessary and that it is high time for the existing law to be transformed; that they are effectively converted into courts, which this law provides, and in the coming period, after the adoption of this law, we will have courts for violations as first-degree bodies, i.e. a higher criminal court as a second-degree body. I'd like to draw attention to the way the law enforcement authorities have been chosen so far. Namely, the first-degree infringement authorities were appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These were infringement judges, and on the other hand we had eleven major offences leading to the legal uncertainty of citizens, leading to the fact that the practice of these authorities, particularly those second-degreed in the decision-making process, was not uniform, which was, in all, creating one legal uncertainty throughout the country. By introducing a second-degree body, a higher court for violations, which will solve all complaints unique to the territory of the Republic, we will have the opportunity to bring the case-law evenly, to ensure that citizens are equal before the law and to avoid volunteering which, whether we want to admit it or not, in the past and how it existed. Given that there is no longer time to discuss all the elements to be highlighted in this law, I would draw attention to several institutes and it exists in Criminal Law, and it has been taken over by the law on violations. So, first of all, I would say that it is good that Articles 13, 14, 15 and 16 provide for the necessary defence, force and threat and attempted violation, or the perpetrator will only be punished if this is specifically prescribed. It is good that these institutions that exist in the legal theory as criminal law institutes are now and in the law on offences, as is good that only the principle is stated in the text, i.e. that no one can be punished in a criminal proceedings twice or more for the same offence, as a person who is in criminal or other criminal proceedings for a commercial offence is not being punished, or that there is a crime which has a mark of the offence. Something new in this law, it's also two new criminal sanctions, and our rights so far have not been known. Of these two new criminal sanctions, I would draw attention to Article 33 of the Law, or to the work of public interest. The fact is that by looking at comparative rights, working in the public interest as a criminal sanction has long been existing and that in countries where there exists, it has produced very good results, because it is a sanction which has a general prevention within it and which prevents a greater number of potential offenders from committing such offences. Given how much in our legal order, that is, in our practice, to the daily, how many perpetrators there are, I think this criminal sanction is welcome, to finally come into our legal system. Since it's a new institute, and our right so far has not known it, it's not a waste to deal with this institute a little bit more. Therefore, working in the public interest is primarily unpaid work in favour of society that is not offended by human dignity and does not make profit. I'd like to highlight these four elements that are foreseen in this institute. So, that it's unpaid work, that it's for society's sake, that this work doesn't offend human dignity and that this work doesn't make a profit. Work in the public interest can, or cannot be said in a time shorter than 10 hours or longer than 120 hours, and cannot be carried out during one day for more than two hours. Finally, when expressing work in the public interest, the court will take into account a special type of infringement with physical ability, the working ability of the offender, his psychological properties, his education, his proclivities and other special circumstances relating to the person himself. I believe that this criminal sanctions will indeed give up on the part of our citizens who are lightly committing crimes, constitute illegal acts, by the very existence of one of these crimes, and will give up on the one hand's offenses, and on the other hand it is a work that is in the public interest, which is socially beneficial; it is not against the fact that, instead of giving up some other criminal sanctions, prison sentences or some other sanctions, that crimes are sanctioned in this way and that they contribute to the development of society. All in all, based on discussions of all previous speakers, and I hope that it is clear to everyone that such a law is necessary, that it is a good thing that such a law came before the National Assembly. I really expect that in the day of voting in the vast majority we will support and vote this law. In any case, the DSS MPs will be happy to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20728	The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, then Vladimir Homan, then Bozidar Koprivica. In case we're done with this set 1800 hours ago, we're not going to go, of course, to a new agenda point, no matter what we've given ourselves up to 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us laws that are very important and it is absolutely certain that we can expect a quality debate on these laws, but I hope that, later on, through the debate on amendments, which there are many, given that this is a very serious law, so the law on violations, we will be able to compensate for this initial lack of quality. I'd start with this first law, and it's a law on the responsibility of the producer of things with shortages, and that's where I'd agree with my colleague from the SRS if this was a modest legal project that only has 13 members. Some serious newspaper doesn't bring in, and it seems to me that, without a problem, it could have been found within another legal project, I suppose, most of all under the Law on Liabilities. Such legal proposals certainly do not contribute to one rational legislative regulation. It's a matter of law, because these laws confuse citizens and should be avoided in the future. The second bill relating to financial penalties for commercial crimes and violations was the most interesting thing for me. I know that it is necessary for fines to comply with this law on violations but there is a drastic increase in many fines compared to what we have so far and it is very difficult to justify this increase, and it goes often up to fifty, and even a hundred times compared to the penalties we have so far. You can't justify them by inflation, because there are increases in the laws that we passed in 2003 and 2004, and if inflation is 15%, and the penalties increase from two, five, and up to seven times in just two years, then we can see that the main objective was not prevention, but I would say, first of all, that the proposer's wish to fill the budget deficit in one more serious way. Taking into account that Serbian citizens are extremely difficult to live on, that they are on the verge of existence, it is absolutely certain that the state and we as a society bear part of the responsibility of being very often brought to such a situation to commit these violations and it is not fair and it is not right that they alone bear the consequences of the violations. I'd like to try to illustrate, with a few members, all this stuff I've been talking about so far. I'd just say there's about 120 laws in this bill where punishments increase dramatically. For example, in the Road Safety Act, we have an increase in some penalties from 40 to 60 times, in the Road Safety Bases Act, we have an addition since 2002, we have an increase of two to three times, with the Arms and Ammunition Act from five to ten times the penalty, and we had the addition of the law in 2003. With the Law on residence and residence of citizens, this is Article 11, one drastic increase, penalties are 100 and 50 times higher than before, although the Law has long been passed. Furthermore, in Article 16 of the Law on travel documents of Yugoslav citizens, I think that the legislator had to deal with the problem of travel documents in a more serious way. I would like to take this opportunity and say that our citizens working abroad pay a much higher price for their travel documents than citizens in the country itself; our relationship with our citizens abroad is, of which, above all, the SRS as the possibility of economic recovery, a lot of bills in the coming period, that we must have a lot more consideration for these citizens and that we do not in any way irritate them with such relations with the prices of travel documents. In the Budgetary System Act, which was passed in 2002, we have an increase in fines by 2.5 times. So, the law that was passed only two years ago, by 250%, has increased these penalties. In the Public Procurement Act – the big problem with public procurement is high price, public procurement costs a lot and it is illogical that we have an increase of up to five times all the fines related to public procurement. When it comes to the republican administrative tax, the same increase is five times. There will be a law on maintenance of residential buildings. All of these increases are 20 to 50 times. It has an important impact on the standard of our citizens. I'm sure it's their desire not to commit violations, too. But if that happens to them, they don't need dragon punishment. And with inspection supervision, you know that our economy is in a very difficult position, first of all, I mean a small economy, our trade. And that's where we get the increase in fines. These are the laws that were passed in 2001 and 2002, 10 to 15 times the increase in penalties we had so far. Also, in the Trade Act, which was passed in 2002, we have a 10 to 20-fold increase in fines. It is obvious that the finance minister has no regard for private entrepreneurship and that he is trying to donate, above all, the budget deficit that exists. When it comes to courts for violations and the Law on Judges, they are in some way the following laws on violations. There's a lot of institutes in the law of violations. I think in the principle debate, it's hard to mention them, let alone give a more serious opinion. I think it's necessary that we do it through the amendments. I believe that a large number of amendments, which the SRS has submitted, will be able to significantly correct this legislative proposal and eventually get a quality law on violations, as we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20730	Thank you, Mr Antic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. There is no preparation for Božidar Koprivica, so Marko Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have five laws before us. I'll try to say a few words about that law that I think is most important, that's the draft law on violations, and that's about the amendment and addition of the Law on Judges and Courts. The most important newspaper of this law is that in criminal proceedings, judges must be tried in the future. It has also changed these two laws on judges and courts, and on the regulation of courts, because criminal courts are being brought in. Those who decide in these matters will have to be judges in the future, not like so far, so-called misdemeanor judges. They were persons who didn't even have to have a legal exam, and they decided on such things as the deprivement of individual freedom. This law is the result of a serious work to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation, as well as our internal legislation. Many institutes of the Law on Violations have been taken out of criminal law for a reason. Apart from this newspaper, which in itself is enough for this law to be reformal and to be voted in this assembly, which is the newspaper I was talking about, in the future, breaking courts to judge in these things and judges, some other newspapers, which are also important. I'll try, in short, on some of them to say a word. These are, for example, penalties for violations, where some new ones have been introduced besides the existing ones, which are criminal points for traffic offences and public interest work. A lot of MPs talked about it. Given the extent of traffic and traffic accidents happening today in Serbia, it is extremely important that these criminal points have been introduced, as this has proved very effective in countries where such a thing exists for years. It is also important, as counterpart Ispanovic pointed out, that the penalty points are accumulated over two years and that they may be up to 18, after which the confiscation, i.e. cancellation of the driver's license. The problem here is the application of that new institute on the street. So, the problem of applying and the problem of the traffic police reaction to the various traffic violations that are going on. I hope we won't be able to be as drivers to see that many pass by the police, and they don't stop them, because they have expensive cars and some plates with small numbers, and some others are stopped for the same reasons, because they're not that kind of status in that situation. In addition to this, as well as the work of public interest, as I have already mentioned, which is extremely significant, it should indicate that the sentence of prison can only be imposed as the main penalty, and that the fine, the fine of work in the public interest and the penalty points, along with the annulment of the driver's license, can be pronounced both as the main and secondary penalty, which is also very significant. Penalty may be the longest for 30 days, and in exceptional cases 60 days. As far as the fines mentioned here are concerned, of course it is not the intention of the legislator and the government of Serbia to fill these fines with the state budget, which, I would point out, is not in the deficit today, but in the surplus, because it can never be predicted how many persons commit violations, both legal and physical persons, and how they will affect that budget. Here's the basic thing of prevention. High fines will serve to make such violations as little as possible. That's the practice in the world. As far as other matters are concerned in this bill and other solutions, I would like to note the introduction of two new types of safeguard measures: the ban on access to damaged, object or place of enforcement and public publication of the verdict, which is very important and very important. I hope it also leads to a reduction in the number of violations. I'm just talking about it in principle, because, for more of this time, we don't have time. As for minors and their responsibilities and punishments, I will also say about some newspapers, which is that apart from existing types of educational measures – discipline and measures of enhanced supervision, introduce new educational measures, which are special obligations both for minors and parents. Where the court considers that appropriate requirements and prohibitions are necessary to affect minors and their behaviour, it shall determine one or more specific obligations for the minor. More specifically, the bill also speaks for it. A few more things. Violent courts are no longer like the authorities of the administration so far, as I said, but courts. Two types of criminal courts are introduced: a first-degree court - in which case the judge judges an individual and a senior criminal court - who judges in a higher than three judges. Extraordinary legal drugs, that's what's last in every law, that's head 33. Already existing emergency legal medicines are prescribed, and we have new ones. These are, in the case of a safeguard measure, the confiscation of cases for customs, foreign trade and foreign exchange offences and the decision to revoke a driving licence pursuant to Article 34. It's a bill of law. We also have those basics, a request for repeating the criminal proceedings and for an emergency review of the judicial verdict, as well as a request for protection of legality, which has been so far. This would end my presentation, with the conclusion that the G17 Plus party will support the package of these laws. I say once again, at least this one newspaper, and there are more of them, and I've talked about some here, and that's the newspaper that's going to be tried by special courts and judges who are going to have to have, I repeat, a judicial exam, which is extremely important, because it wasn't necessary, and now it's going to have to be necessary. It also raises the level of expertise and knowledge of judges to one higher level, as it will also decide on prison sentences, deprivement of freedom. So, only one newspaper is enough to support this law, but this law has a lot of new ones, which I was talking about. With that, the G17 plus party will support, as will other laws that follow, and also laws that I have not talked about at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20732	I thank Mr. Homan. The People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, has the word, and let Marko Krstin be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20733	We have before us a set of these five laws. I'm going to talk about the draft law on violations, because I think it's the most interesting. Since a large number of laws contain infringements, the practical importance of the law on violations should be very large. However, infringement authorities are specific authorities that are neither judicial authorities nor authorities of the administration. In fact, they have imposed criminal sanctions so far, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The proposer of this law, unfortunately, did not comply with certain provisions of this law with the country's legal system, and above all with the Constitution. Many of the solutions contained in the proposal, especially when it comes to penalties, introduce anti-constitutional provisions, which rudely violates the provisions of the Serbian Constitution as the country's largest legal act. The proposer was the most important alignment of this matter with Western acts and standards, regardless of what is being violated by the country's current constitution. By law, you're introducing infringing courts. Mr. Minister, organization, jurisdiction, headquarters and the area of these courts have not been defined, nor have you ordered them, which will in practice lead to a number of problems. The conditions for prescribing sanctions are also not fully worked out, nor defined, and the system of sanctions and types of criminal courts and sanctions is not adapted, nor consistent with our legal system. Certain legal norms are unclear, inaccurate, the language of certain norms is unclear and in large numbers is not adequate material that it processes. In particular, there are vague and inaccurate norms concerning the place of execution of the offence, as well as the way in which the sentence is pronounced. If they stay this way, as proposed, it can in practice lead to numerous illegalities and inconveniences. Dear People's MPs, the SRS believes that the exclusion of the criminal liability of legal persons in bankruptcy and the inability to give such a legal person a sentence cannot, in practice, mean the amnesty of a legal person in bankruptcy who will act stimulatingly on the legal persons in bankruptcy and the responsible persons to commit offences, if such, I would say, remain. In the sense of criminal liability in the legal person, there should be no more responsible persons, as it is consistent with the normative acts, Mr Minister, the statute and the regulation strictly defined the responsibility of the responsible person in the legal person. There can be no more responsible persons in the legal person for certain provisions and matter. The SRS considers that prison sentences and fines are quite sufficient and appropriate and therefore they are quite sufficient, so no new penalties need to be imposed. Penalty – work in the public interest and punishment for giving criminal points with the cancellation of the driver's license. And if the proposer, by order of the boss, I assume from Brussels, introduces punishment – working in the public interest, of course, against the constitution, has not been able to specify what it is to work in the public interest in order to facilitate the work of judges and what is meant by work in the public interest. The penalty to which the penalty points are imposed is anti-constitutional and should not be possible because it does not comply with the legal system. How it is possible to cancel the driver’s licence already issued if it is borne in mind that each driver, when passing the driver’s test, has satisfied and passed, both the theoretical and practical part, i.e. the practical driving, which is normal, and the cancellation of the driver’s licence would mean a direct mockery of the driver’s licence issue procedure. If, again, I have to say that ugly word - the cadaver's proposal is passed, I'd have thought out a driving test. The question arises whether or not it should be passed at all and how will people who lose their driver's license take that test again? That's not precise. At least it should've been made clear. Dear People's MPs, the SRS believes that fines are too high and that they need to be reduced and brought into line with the economic opportunities of our citizens and legal persons. We believe that a safeguard measure can be imposed to withdraw the driver's license for a specified period of time, i.e. on a certain period of time, but only as a safeguard measure, and not as a punishment, which is in this proposal of yours. The SRS considers that the ban on the exercise of a particular legal person for up to three years is too high. If this measure were to remain, it would practically mean winding down the i.e. stopping the work of that legal person. In that sense, we suggested that this distance, or the duration, be reduced from three years to one year. The special obligations that are prescribed for minors are indeed unconstitutional, I would say humiliating for minors, and if they adopt, and we have proposed an amendment that we regulate, basic human rights of minors would be violated, including the right to freedom of movement by a minor. The bill stipulates that a search can be conducted without the defendant's presence, therefore, the perpetrator of the offence, and even without his defender's presence, which is truly incomprehensible and inadmissible, because the other party must be heard. A party to the application must be heard, even more perpetrators, in order to allow the accused to defend himself in the search, all to determine the exact factual state and the truth, which are very important for making a fair and legal decision. Because if this is adopted, I wonder, and I don't want to be in the role of these judges, how they're going to make those decisions. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the SRS has submitted a large number of amendments to improve this law which is otherwise bad. If you adopt them, at least you'll have a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20734	Thank you, Mr. Koprivici. The word is Marko Krstin. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here a joint discussion of five legislative proposals. I will refer briefly to only the first of these proposals, given that my colleagues have talked a lot about the law on violations and the consequences of the law, it is the law on judges and the law on the regulation of courts. All I have to do is look back at the bill on the responsibility of the manufacturer of the missing thing. That's the least spoken of here. I think it makes sense to say a few sentences, given that this legislative proposal has come here as a direct consequence of a warrant or an EU directive, as the proposer has said in an unequivocally. In light of this, when it comes to the reason for the adoption of this law, it is said that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the need to bring domestic legislation into line with EU directives. Also, what is not logical to me and, in my opinion, acceptable, is that it is stated when it comes to the reason for the urgent procedure of this law, it says that it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure in order to fulfil the obligations undertaken by the Action Plan for harmonising the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules. I personally believe, and the SRS said that at the beginning of this session when we were establishing the agenda, that there were a lot of things that should be considered here. It was primarily meant to talk here these days about what is most important and important for the Republic of Serbia, which is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the beginning of negotiations on so-called "the Republic of Serbia". the final status of Kosovo and Metohija and the Resolution adopted by Europe on the alleged violation of human and minority rights in Vojvodina. I think it was much more logical and cleverer that we talked about these days, not that one such legal proposal should be put on the agenda that, to be more realistic and honest, will not be brought into practice. And the name itself is too ghouly and vague. The name of the law on the responsibility of the manufacturer of things with lack suggests that there are some producers in Serbia who produce consciously and intentionally, things and goods with a lack. The name itself does not correspond to the essence or meaning of what was to be done here. The proposal is quite confusing and vague and as such probably will not be revived in practice. If he is alive, he will cause great problems because many trials will be opened that will likely last indefinitely, in which nothing can be proved. I'll try to point out a few things that don't make sense and don't make sense. Article 4 states that, if the product does not provide the safety that is rightly expected, there is a lack of a product or thing to be produced, given all the circumstances. Imagine such a sentence as to all the consequences, and how can one prove something based on such a sentence? What does it mean if the product does not provide the safety that is rightly expected, given all the circumstances? In view of what circumstances? Article 5 says that, in the sense of this law, the damage caused by death or physical injury and the damage caused by the destruction or damage to some part of the property, provided that it was commonly used for personal use or consumption and that it was used for that purpose. This article doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense to this sentence in Article 5. What are we thinking here? Since it is commonly used for personal use or consumption and has not been used for this purpose, is it meant for part of the property that is damaged or for the product used, and due to its lack, is the damage caused? Article 7 refers to the responsibility of the producer for the damage caused by the product with a deficiency and it is said that the manufacturer responds regardless of whether or not he knew of the deficiency. Please, if the manufacturer is aware of the lack, he knowingly places products and goods on the market, that is, things with shortages, and is likely subject to some other laws under which he should be eligible. The logical question arises, what if the manufacturer sees a shortage, means it does not produce conscious goods with a shortage but in the course of production that there is a shortage and what if he as a safest inform potential customers about this lack? Is it in this case appropriate or should it be responsible for the damage that can be caused by the use of such a product? Article 8 states that the manufacturer will not be responsible if it proves that the deficiency probably did not exist at the time he placed the product on the market or that it appeared later. What does it mean if it proves it probably didn't exist? If he proves he didn't exist, I can accept that, but he probably didn't exist, it can't be any proof. Furthermore, it is said, if it proves that it has not produced a product intended for sale and that the product is not produced within its regular activity – if it is not intended for sale and is not within the framework of regular activity, it cannot even be on the market, it is something that is illegal, which is subject to some other laws. Then, it is said, or if it proves that the deficiency occurred as a result of the conformity of product characteristics with the prescribed norms – this must be brought into line before placing on the market and must be accompanied by the prescribed norms. It is also said that if it proves that the level of scientific and technical knowledge at the time when the product was placed on the market did not allow for the detection of deficiencies – that someone would prove after two or five years that at the moment he put the product on the market, the level of scientific and technical knowledge was such that it could not be seen that lack. It's very hard to prove it all. The following position of Article 8 states: 'The manufacturer of the component of the product shall not be responsible if it proves that the deficiency can be attributed to the design of the product or that it is the result of the instructions given by the manufacturer''. Please, the manufacturer of the component should not be responsible in any case. It does not put that part on the market in particular but delivers it to a final manufacturer who, as an integral part of his product, puts it on the market and the responsibility should be assumed by that final manufacturer who uses subassemblies, components for the assembly, assembly and production of its final product. He's the one who puts that final product on the market. So it doesn't make sense that someone who's a component producer is responding in front of a buyer. It should match the one who puts the whole set or the final product on the market. He says, "The manufacturer may be partially or completely free of responsibility if it is damaged or the person for whom he has contributed partially to the occurrence of the damage." If the product is deficient, then the user cannot partially contribute to the occurrence of the damage. A user can unwittingly do harm, although the product is without defect. And if it is lacking then damage can also occur by proper handling and that should be the meaning and essence of this law, it means that someone is responding if handling is correct but there is damage as a result of the lack of the product carrying with them. In order not to spend more time, I think this law will not be in practice applicable, that this is a law that we adopt pro-forme or order for someone in Europe to be satisfied, because we have respected some of our obligations, but I said, we should have talked these days about much more disturbing and important things for Serbia than this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20736	Hello, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will brief and taxively express the views of the SRS on the five very important laws of which the motionor has spoken here, but the details you have heard from the SRS MPs and of course from colleagues from other parliamentary groups. I would refer first to one very important fact, which is that, Mr. Minister, we see ourselves here a lot and that's good. This is proof that your Ministry is doing more than others, but it is not enough because I have to pass on to you the position of the workers in the judiciary, the holders of judicial functions, that we are much more concerned with legal legislation, the copy of the law, and that we are doing less work to improve the material position of these courts and judges and other judicial employees. As far as I could see, we are only touching the salary that should be borne by the judicial office, but also, the reputation and dignity of the courts are contributed by the court and the scribes, those who are in the administration of the courts, begin from the court office, to the land books, or as it is being held in courts, intubulation books or intubular books, etc. So, I urge that we deal with this in particular, because we will come into such a situation that everything we prescribe here, everything we bring can't be applied, because we'll most likely have a quiet, if not a public boycott of a judicial worker because of a poor material condition. If you believe my word, we're the same professions, we're the same professions, I'm bypassing courts, and I don't like to go into courts, because everyone's asking me if I'm taking their views here and if we ever talk to a minister about this very difficult material position. Here, I took the obligation and the freedom to say it here in public. As far as these laws are concerned, the most important law on a violation is that it drags these four amendments and additions. I can say that it is really taxing, that we respect the EU directives and instructions, but I believe that here we are in some way training democracy by passing such laws, and on the other hand there is no feedback from what we are publicly expressing here, which is to get up in defense of legal action, both you ministers and all of us MPs, because the rights of defendants or rights detained in The Hague tribunal are drastically violated, as is the case with the vice-president of the Serbian government. All citizens can forgive us, but this, Mr. Minister, will never forgive us. We did not publicly rise to the defense of fundamental rights, and all of these laws protect the rights of both guilty in criminal proceedings, both now and guilty in criminal proceedings. As for the draft law on violations, I can say a few things, which is that it's a good fact that we are uniting the judicial functions here, it's a good fact that we are introducing a single second-degree organ. This will affect the second-degree behaviour of the authority, the unification of judicial practice. He's got attitudes the SRS can't agree with. In fact, we cannot agree with the notion of an offence which has been given quite simply and simply, that the offence is unlawfully wronged and the action carried out by the law of the competent authority has been designated as an offence. We know that both fundamentally and fundamentally criminally, and fundamentally, it's also that illegality, and that responsibility. Then what's a violation? We don't know what a misdemeanor is. So we advocate to mention, however, that this is one violation of the public order that we have established by law or by other regulations. Therefore, starting from that to the general purpose of prescribing sanctions in the infringement procedure is not adequately stated because it is said that the general purpose of regulation is to impose penalties on citizens to respect the legal system and that no one in the future commits offences, and we have not pointed out that both the purpose of being responsible and guilty is to be justly sanctioned and that they deserve a certain sanction. As for the necessary defenses, we believe that there has been enough to take certain norms from the Criminal Code, that the necessary defenses, first of all, relate to the removal, from themselves or from his own good or from another and his good, are certain dangers. The same is true of extreme necessity. These could have been taken over, but it's too far-fetched to be governed by this law. I don't understand why the part about the offence was forced out, where we're talking about force and threat, is being left out of coercion and says there's no offense if the action is prescribed as a violation committed under the influence of force, threat, and coercion has been left out. Furthermore, we can say that in terms of these facts that are very important, it is that the assumption of innocence is not mentioned, as is not mentioned in the Criminal Law. I would also point out that this law does not adequately regulate procedural matter, because something is being taken over from the Code of Criminal Procedure, and something is still left out of the previous Law of Infraction. (President: Time. ) When we have all these facts in mind, we must say that this law improves the regulation of violations, but with those amendments that we have submitted, of course, if this assembly accepts this or if the minister in charge accepts it, we feel that we will have one more quality law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-24-0.u20738	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a principled joint investigation on: Proposal for a law on the responsibility of the manufacturer of things with shortages, a bill on amendments to the laws establishing fines for commercial offences and infringements, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Registrar of Courts and the Proposal for a Law on Infringements. We move to agenda nine, public road bill tomorrow at 10.00. We will work until the principle debate of the draft law on the state audit institution is completed. I thank you all for your responsibilities and efficiency in today's work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we are opening the third day of work of the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, the quorum and conditions are confirmed for work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Dusan Prorokovic, I hope that he will join us shortly after the operation. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Roads. As we announced last night that we would immediately agree on the work schedule, so we may be working longer today, and by discussing the item on the agenda before 18.00 hours, but the longest until the end of the principle debate on the 10th point of the agenda – the law on the audit institution. So, compared to that, you will schedule your time and work on committees. I thank you for your understanding. You've received a bill from the government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I remind you that for the SRS parliamentary group it is one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; DSS– one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS – 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes, 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives in front of the SRS parliamentary group are the MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs – MP Miroslav Markicevic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
