ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13147	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 138 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Vladan Vukicevic and that he will be late for the Parliament of the People of Živodarka Dacin. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Authorised representative of the DS, MP Bosko Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13148	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected representatives of Serbia's judiciary, but during yesterday's presentation and during discussions in the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, I also expressed my position as DS and my personal position on the state of justice in Serbia. The position of the Democratic Party, as well as a large number of professionals who have contacts with the judiciary, and especially Serbian citizens, is therefore that the situation in the judiciary is not good, which is seen, above all, in the long run, in the inability to protect their rights in time and in full from the courts in Serbia. First of all, the slowness in solving certain cases is noticeable, especially in long-term litigation that lasts for many years; people cannot come to justice, it creates anxiety, costs, creates legal uncertainty, and weak instruments to improve this situation in the judiciary. There are a large number of requirements, an initiative to resolve judges who do not do their job properly, do not work responsibly, the verdicts stick to drawers for half a year and a half and some longer. There are remarks that individual investigations in some courts last for more than a year, that in some investigations, they wait for a translation for a year, and on the other hand, that those persons to whom the proceedings are being conducted have unwarrantedly long status of accused or suspects. All this raises the question of legal certainty. On the other hand, such a situation in the judiciary leaves the possibility for Serbian citizens to complain about the untimely completion of proceedings before courts and the International Court of Justice. This will certainly mean damage to the state, especially to the reputation of Serbia itself in the international community because of the situation in the judiciary. The situation in the judiciary is not good because of the negative staff selection. There is no training of judges, young judges do not have their mentors, and that would be a great help to get into the work of the judge, to perform this public office in the most responsible and professional way. Some comparative experiences from countries in the environment or countries where transition ends show that something needs to be changed in the system of education, above all, the holders of functions in the judiciary. The judiciary is still a lot of those who participated in politically mounted processes. There are many who give prison sentences for slander and verbal delinquencies, which is contrary to the standards of the countries of the European Union that we seek. There are a lot of people who have been punishing people just because they pleaded as sympathisers of the Chetnik movement, and now we have a situation that we have passed one law on equalising participants in the NOR, no matter which side they were on or which political group they belonged to. The question arises whether the historical circumstances that have now arisen may also be new facts for the renewal of many proceedings and for reviewing the responsibility of those who judged Serbian citizens just because they were supporters of the Chetnik movement. Whether such judges should progress, be holders of judicial functions and manage courts in Serbia, these are all issues. The point is that the courts are inadequately equipped. Courts are without adequate technical equipment, court records are not properly conducted, which is an obstacle to all participants in the process to prove the indications by which they were declared during the proceedings. There are recommendations from professional authorities and international organisations dealing with the situation in the judiciary. In particular, it is a matter of salaries of judicial employees, judges and staff and those who work in court offices. You know there's a protest going on, there was a protest yesterday at the Justice Department. It's been quiet for a very long time. A large number of employees live at a minimum, with minimum salaries, and receive it from two parts, cannot feed themselves or their family. On the other hand, the Democratic Party and I support a protest expressing dissatisfaction with the judiciary's employees, and we believe that the justice minister, who still decides on Serbian judiciary finances, should consider the position and status of judges and all other judicial employees. The Law on Judges is not applicable, which says judges should have the same salary as ministers in the Serbian government. The government and its ministers have increased their wages, however, have not found the possibility to increase the salary for judicial officials as well. There is no independent and independent judiciary in Serbia as long as the government, as an executive authority, manages money related to the Serbian judiciary. That is why DS and I personally advocate to create and form an independent court budget, together with the Assembly, which should have an independent budget, so that there is no situation for the finance minister to determine salaries for employees in the Assembly and thus affect processes within the Assembly itself. Those elected and appointed by the Assembly, therefore, cannot have their status and moves affecting the highest legislative body to decide exactly their status. There's something wrong. So we stand for budgeting both in the judiciary and in the Assembly. As long as the minister of justice (I am not now talking about a person, I do not mean Mr Stojkovic, I mean the system, system solutions) determines the means or affects the formation of the amount of funds to be spent on justice, the judiciary will be dependent on the executive authority. There will certainly be counterarguments that the previous authorities have not done so, that the previous minister did not and that all ministers had not done so before, I will agree with that, but it does not justify any of us to maintain the status quo, so no change. We are obliged to reform the judiciary and create this embryo that will have sufficient reform capacity to change the judiciary from within. In that sense, I believe that the set of laws relating to the judiciary is not sufficiently elaborated, that there are inadequate solutions, starting with how the body representing the highest judicial authority is elected, which is the High Council of Justice. I argued, when the Law on the High Council of Justice was passed, that members of the High Council of Justice were elected in direct and secret elections by all holders of functions in the judiciary. So all prosecutors and all judges in Serbia choose their highest judicial authority in direct and secret elections. Only then would that authority be independent, would it have guarantees and legitimacy to act on behalf of the judiciary. However, the current High Council of Justice also consists of appointed persons. They're faces in V.D. The state, acting President of the Supreme Court and acting President of the District Court in Novi Sad. I think the faces that are in V.D. The situation is also the basis and instrument through which the Justice Ministry, primarily the justice minister, who is also a member of the High Council of Justice, can influence the situation in the judiciary and politicising the situation in the judiciary. That this is true and that this is true says not only that we have faces in V.D. We already have persons who want to move forward and are members of the High Council of Justice, which was excluded in one of the previous laws, and now that possibility exists. To clarify, the law now provides for the possibility that a member of the High Council of Justice can compete and advance in the service, although he is a member of the High Council of Justice. This situation certainly creates adequate instability within the High Council of Justice itself, and I believe that such a legal solution is inadmissible and that it needs to be changed as urgently as possible. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. Since these legal assumptions suggest that there is a possibility of the executive authority's influence on the judicial authority, and we are proving that by choosing candidates for the highest judicial functions, where candidates who are not the best are elected. There is no reason why some who have studied longer have been chosen, have a lower average score and weaker work scores than those who have had a very neat career, which ended in time, which have a longer working period than the studies, as opposed to those that are proposed in most cases. Otherwise, I won't be dealing with names. I'm not interested in specific names. I'm interested in the system, I'm interested in the principle and I'm here to defend the judiciary and to influence, as a member of a party that has a proper influence in Parliament on decision-making, that this situation in the judiciary is changed. The proposed candidates in most cases do not meet the conditions for progress, i.e. for selection. We talked about it in detail, about every name, on the Justice Committee. I don't think it's right for me to mention all the names here and disabling these people to the public, to reduce their position, authority, if they're chosen, but I'm going to point to phenomena. Another phenomenon we have pointed out is that the minister of justice has determined by his influence how to call a competition for the election of prosecutors and judges in the military departments of the prosecution. This contest is called against the law. The law does not provide for the launch of competitions for court departments, i.e. prosecutors. What's behind that? The fact is that the Justice Minister wants only by taking over this and continuing the lives of military courts and prosecutors. Only military prosecutors, i.e. judges of military courts, appeared in a contest called this. Of course, there will be some individuals, such as the individual from the company "Dunav", who worked in legal affairs, who is elected deputy district attorney, and in the military department, with the excuse that there should be specialized departments in prosecutors and courts dealing with military matters. Of course, this is contrary to the Law on Taking power from the military prosecutors and courts and the transfer of jurisdiction to regular courts. This opposes civilian control. Once again, we will have a situation where military or former military personnel, who will now only take off their uniform and work in military courts, military prosecutors, military departments, will again communicate exclusively with the military and thus civilian control will shrink. In the way of choice, the law has been broken. Military prosecutors and military judges have not received the opinion of the authority from which they come, which is an obligation for the High Council of Justice to address the institutions from which candidates come to obtain the results of their work so far and compare it with the personal list, the working list of judges and prosecutors from regular courts when deciding on their reception. This didn't happen. Interestingly, an ad and competition for the prosecutor's reception was launched on January 3rd, during the holidays. The official messenger came out on December 31st, but that decree to elect judges and prosecutors for the military department shows that the restrictive and discriminatory treatment of persons coming from civil justice and who wanted to make progress through competitions. That's what we pointed out to the Justice Committee, we pointed out the fact that the High Judicial Council gives résumés of biography to candidates he chooses, doesn't give reasons why one of the 10 is chosen, when it's seen from the working list that it's worse or that it's no better than the others. On the other hand, when we pointed out to the Minister and the High Council of Justice that no worksheet was given for individual candidates, so that we could not determine their work results, we were told that it was an official secret. At the same time, for some other candidates, we received a worksheet and had insight into their work results, with statistics, and we were able to compare the quality of individual candidates on the Justice Committee itself. I was also talking about the election system not being good. If the Constitution says the Assembly elects the holders of judicial functions, it means there must be a choice between at least two candidates. It is not possible and it is not good for this parliament to declare candidates, and there is only one candidate. This parliament has the possibility of not choosing a candidate, but it is not a choice. It's some sort of ex post consent or harmonising the consent for a choice made by someone else. Of course, I advocate that the High Council of Justice be completely independent and independent and that it has the highest number of judges in its composition, so that the principle, adopted in modern democracies, that judges and prosecutors choose their colleagues, and that politics has no direct impact on concrete human resources, but that it has an impact on only a system that can build through the adoption or amendment of laws that constitute the basis of that system. What happened, and what we pointed out on the Justice Committee, is the fact that certain candidates were discriminated against in that their application did not come to the High Council of Justice. Of course, it wasn't a big case and I pointed out a specific case. The President of the Niš Municipal Court, who applied for the President of the District Court in Nis, had no opportunity to adequately look at its application before the High Council of Justice. Why? Because her application was prone and only to intervene herself before the High Council of Justice her name came up in the election that day, however, her biography, her work results were not there. The evidence for this is also the fact that you did not receive in your materials material that would follow the name and name of the President of the Municipal Court in Nis Ljiljana Misovic, to be included, as other candidates, with his work results and to have equal treatment during the election. I pointed that out more than a month ago, so the High Council of Justice then held sessions, but this lack did not remove. That's why I pointed out that there are shortcomings in the choice of candidates, but also in communication between all three branches of government. In order for the judicial system to be built on democratic principles, it is necessary that all three authorities communicate: legislative, executive and judicial power. That's not what happened. This communication is missing. That's why we have bad solutions. Unfortunately, we received information from the V.D. The President of the Supreme Court, if he had addressed the Committee on Justice of the Assembly, where he requested meetings to establish a plan for the work of the High Council of Justice, would have established communication between the Committee on Justice and the High Council of Justice. However, he was not invited and such a session was not scheduled. I must also point out the poor relationship between our elected representative in the High Council of Justice, it is Professor Tomic, who has never once had any communication with parliament, or with the competent Committee on Justice, which I consider to be a harsh breach of communication, which can have a significant impact on the quality of choice of judicial officials. I pointed to this on the Committee and asked Mr Tomic to call on the Committee on Justice and to hear all the arguments that members of the Committee and MPs make regarding the situation in the judiciary, as well as the objections about the selection of individual candidates. Of course, there are more parties, there are more interested persons. Mr. Tomic is autonomous in presenting the Assembly at the High Council of Justice, but he is obliged to hear her opinion. It is not clear to me how Mr Tomic, as representative of the High Council of Justice, represents our interests and what should be done to sublime all our views before the High Council of Justice. That's why I suggested he make the call. If he does not respond to the calls, then it is his responsibility, but if he does not call, then it is his responsibility to the chairman of the Justice Committee why he does not call him. I hope this lack in the future will be resolved. If Mr Tomic remains unresponsive and does not communicate with the Assembly, I will be free to propose his resolution and to initiate the election of a new representative of the Assembly in the VSP. (President: Time. I'll finish now. I would also like to say that the proposed candidate for the Serbian Supreme Court has been elected in a procedure that leaves doubt, above all, because at the very session of the High Council of Justice, when the choice was made, the Rules of Procedure have been amended without prior notice. I also believe that the candidate for the president of the court, which is a fact proposed by the minister of justice, is a party rounding the situation in the judiciary and a party influence on the judiciary. (President: Time. I'll be done now. I must remind the public that, on a proposal from the MUP, which is held by one party, whose minister is also on the proposal of the BIA, whose director is also a representative of the one party, the President of the Supreme Court determines listening to political and state enemies when it is realised as a doubt. It creates a great opportunity for abuse. (President: Mr. Ristic, I warned you three times, you made three public promises to finish. It's been two minutes since your address. Please finish. To finish the thought. So the point of judicial surveillance is to separate these things. Now we have a very rounded party structure that will control this entire mechanism. I'm not saying that there will be abuse, but I think that mechanism should be opened more to the public and there is a stronger and stronger democratic control mechanism that would prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13149	The word has Minister Stojkovic. So that the public wouldn't be upset, it was a lapus. Of course no sect has taken over the state and no 3rd January is a holiday. So January 3rd is the first working day, when everything prepared for publication is announced before the New Year's Eve. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13150	I'll be brief, so I don't take up much of your time. There's a series of lies here, so it's just for information. One of the things about Mr. Ristic's exposure that I would agree with immediately is that a negative selection of judicial personnel has been done, that they are unprofessional and unsupervised. We just have to agree that those previous elections were under you, not under this government. We'll sort that out in this way. As far as the union's proposal is concerned, it's a woman. Whoever manipulates her, I won't engage. I didn't get any information from the President of the Court that there were any strikes, and from the prison, be sure, no. Seven days ago, Mr. Smiljanic was at my place, and we agreed to come to the talks and we set up all those important things with the union representatives. So why don't the papers want to pass on my denials, I don't get it, but I won't get into it. As far as the budget itself is concerned, the Budget Law has been set by the previous government this way. Mr Djelic has laid down the law and Article 10 provides for the control of the legality and implementation of the budget to be carried out by the ministry as a state body. So it didn't determine the budget. The court budget is determined by the Budget Law. When the budget is adopted, the resources for the courts are set. Technically, I'm just following the law of execution. I can tell you it's very difficult. Someone spends and does what they want, and I have to follow if it's legal, and I don't know what they're doing. It's only when the inspections leave that we find out, to tell you immediately, as in Nis, that it's for example. spent 73% on regular expenses and no more money, but therefore 1,428% on travel costs. It's other stories, but I'm telling you about the gravity of my situation. Make sure I'm ready to support any idea of getting an independent court budget, and then you'll see if after six or seven months with this kind of behavior they can pay. Otherwise, as regards those other items, indirect and direct users, Article 2. The budget system law determines who are indirect and direct users. I don't determine. I don't have a chance. As far as the Council's issues are concerned, whether it is well-chosen or not, I will really not engage in this, in the fact that the Constitutional Court, after a long time, decided last year that it was a body based on the Constitution, since most of the bodies have judges. As for the improvement of work itself, I can tell you that the latest data I'm getting shows that the up-to-date has been improved. So, even with a difficult situation like this, it's getting better, because the courts are starting to work. Is my control according to the right of supervision good or not good? I'm sure it gives results, and the courts are on to something. Now that we choose, fill in the blanks, eventually they are not chosen, as you say, unprofessional and incompetent, etc., then perhaps we will achieve far better results, in the interests of this people. As for this claim of yours that it wasn't at the Council of Discussions on Mrs. Misovic, I brought a copy of the minutes. Most of that council just went to a debate about it. I can let you take a look, so you can see what this is all about. Please, don't put out any inaccuracies that I suggested any candidate. The contest was called and the candidates came forward after the competition. I can't suggest, nor will I. I can speak my mind on the Council as one of the 11 but I can't propose to anyone. You know, it's a competition and people are coming forward after that competition. As far as military courts are concerned, this is where both V.D.s sit. The president, so they can tell you that I almost didn't participate in how to organise a transfer of jurisdiction, because we were in great teat, given that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly untimely passed that law and we had twenty days to do so. I even thank them for the concrete work we've done not to lose these courts, now as civil courts' bodies. The competition has also been called and discussed by the council's advice on prosecutors and courts and council presidents. Don't transfer anything to me. That's what I want to say. I'll agree right away with you that we're no match for V.D. I think we need to make an election right now. This is where the proposals have been since November of the month. Why was it taken off in this congregation, don't ask me. I just hope that if we all agree that we should improve the situation, make a choice, that both courts and prosecutors will start working better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13151	Replica, MP Bosko Ristic. While you're coming, just to let the MPs know, there are law school students at the gallery and we welcome them. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13152	I have a few things to express my disagreement with the minister, and first of all, this election will improve the situation in the judiciary. Based on the results of the work done by individual candidates, whose percentage of judgments abolished is 52% in individuals (and if necessary, I will give it from the material that the MPs received), such a choice and such proposed candidates will not improve the situation in the judiciary. So, when selecting each individual, you have to take care of his work so far, and that is the result shown in the worksheet. That is why it is necessary for each candidate to have a worksheet. In his presentation, the minister did not deny that there are no working lists for all candidates. That's why they're unequal in the election. The second thing, the lawyer has his representative at the High Council of Justice. In those cases where the executive authority was interested in selecting individual holders of the judicial functions, the candidacy did not go to the lawyers' chambers. No candidate for a military prosecutor, i.e. the D.A.'s military department and the court's military department, went to the bar to plead. It's a breach of procedure and it's a direct violation of the law. The third thing, as far as Ms. Misovic is concerned, is that her name was found in the election of that day at the High Council of Justice, but did not come by following the material, her work results did not come and her work résumé did not come which was recommended for the place. This is evident from the material that the MPs have and received from this congregation, which is the material that the High Council of Justice sent through the Assembly to the Members and on which they discussed. I call here now the chairman of the High Council of Justice to say whether it's true or not, purely because of the facts. The fourth item, which was elected by the Supreme Court president, was amended on that day by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of Justice, on a proposal from the minister. If that is not true, let me be denied by the chairman of the High Council of Justice. That's the facts. The fifth thing, says the minister that the High Council of Justice is autonomous in advocacy. Then I call V.D. D.A. and V.D. The president of the Supreme Court to say whether they self-initiatedly opened a contest for the military departments of prosecutors and courts, or whether it was a suggestion by the executive authority. Only then will we get out of this mess. If the executive authority ordered them to do so, it is a direct influence in the way public judicial office holders are elected in the military departments of prosecutors and courts. If it isn't, it's an excess of the authority of those who have been calling, and if they have done it autonomously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13153	Thank you, Mr. Ristic. The word has the deputy president of the SPS National MP Zarko Obradovic. So far, no other president, or representative of the parliamentary group, has applied for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13154	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the High Council of Justice, fellow MPs, today we have an extremely important topic on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the choice of leaders in the judiciary, the election and appointment of certain judges. I think it is something that is very important for Serbia, because it directly affects the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their sense of justice in the Republic of Serbia, the functioning of the rule of law, and whether there is a harmony or a discrepancy between justice and justice. There is a lot of talk about justice, and it seems to me that there is a general impression that the situation in Serbia's judiciary is not good. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can say that we think that the situation in the judiciary is not good. We are fully convinced of this and we have some evidence, and some of them I will mention during the debate, but there is a discrepancy between justice and justice, that there is a division in relations with people who are subject to the work of the judiciary; that people who are members of the former DOS, DS or members of the previous government are seen favorably; that the judiciary is not doing anything about those actions in which they have been involved, and in relation to political, social, economic and other scandals that have shaken the Republic of Serbia in recent years. If it happens against someone and file a report or something, it stays on a long stick and no investigative action is taken and nothing is done against them. On the other hand, according to the Socialists who were members of state structures or people appointed by the Socialists, everything is being taken, but all the actions to prove alleged guilt and to bring them to court and, of course, to be judged. Why is that? I must say that the basic reason, in the SPS' view, for such a situation in the judiciary and the behaviour of the judiciary towards people lies primarily in the way these people choose. Because, it should not be forgotten, this is where people say "who the devil of the plague" are avoided, the theme of how elected people are in the justice of the Republic of Serbia. I came up with one piece of information on a round table that is regularly organised in this so-called democratic Serbia between NGOs. This is a 2002 document; the Justice Ministry's representative then said, quote: "It is not necessary to lose sight that a total of 150 presidents, of 165, have been changed so far, and 166 new judges have been appointed. "This is 2002. So 150 presidents of 165 courts. How have these presidents been elected? Since yesterday by DS representatives there were stories about the criteria and length of study and so on, I will use my parliamentary right and the fact that I was also a member of the Committee on Justice in the previous meeting, so I was directly present at the Committee's session when candidates were proposed for the presidents of the courts and, no offense, I will quote here what I said at the Serbian Parliament in 2001. How are the candidates proposed for the presidents of the courts and what professional qualities do they possess? On the Committee on Justice and Administration, it was essential whether the members of the DOS or most of them agreed on a proposal for the selection of judicial holders or whether local authorities gave consent. The point was that DOS insisted on a specific proposal. No one tried, honoring the exceptions, to say about the quality of the proposed candidates, about their work experience, about the number of solved and unsolved cases, about the reputation, the moral and professional, which they enjoyed or should enjoy, about the essence; about it no one spoke to the Justice Committee. All that mattered was whether there was an agreement within the DOS that the candidate could be elected president of the court. What kind of candidates are we talking about? Many candidates for the presidents of the courts, and I counted over 30, were not, for example, from the court for which they were proposed. And professional qualities are data on the average rating and length of study. For example, for the presidents of the courts, and here yesterday we heard objections to some candidates for judges, and I am talking about the presidents of the courts who were elected in 2001, they proposed candidates whose average was 6.71, 6.33, 6.68, 6.66, 6.16, and who studied the law school for eight, nine, ten and more years. Those, my dear colleagues, were candidates for the presidents of the courts who were elected. What kind of chaos is this? I'll only give you two information for the Presidents of the Court. I have here all the documentation, which I delivered to the Ministry of Justice, when the High Council of Justice changed its decision three times for the President of the Court of Justice in Kovacica, and it was in the misunderstanding that it was created in the DOS, whether this or that, because they themselves didn't know what it was, at the Assembly of the President of the National Assembly, which is the whole stenogram documentation from this assembly, read the position of the High Council of Justice which was not the proposal of the President of the Court who later came and took over power in Kovacica as the President of the Court and determined what the court should do and similar, complete documentation. Or a case in the Bookie, and then you'll see why the Bookie. Because a man has been elected president of the court, and nothing has been done in accordance with the Law on Judges, which provides for the way the judges choose, he has been elected beyond the provisions of the laws that regulate it, past the competition, past the rules. It's simple, it's said -- you have to be the end of the story. The scribe is instructive, because the court later (and this is the case which I refer to as an example of the work of the DOS judiciary) sentenced a woman, director of one institution, to prison for five months, because she did not have the appropriate decision of the institution in question, and she committed a serious crime of abuse of her official position. She drove her official car from Književec to Bar, which is a serious, serious crime, without a proper decision from the board of directors; in addition, she is said to have given the funds, without proper decision, to the youth association, which, you will admit, is a serious crime and should certainly be sanctioned. Another example of the serious crime of the Bolec district court, an example of the man who was your colleague, MP Svetozar Jovanovic, who was 70 and a few years old, who was 13 years old director of the home of health, father of two children, has five grandchildren. I'm sure a lot of workers were admitted during that time, but just after October 5th, there was one person to say that he had received a 500-mark bribe and was sentenced to three months in prison. Nothing 13 years ago, no number of people before, no testimony from the witness that it's not true, no. That person who gave it, it was absolutely appropriate for the court. A man should go to jail at 70 and a few years old. These are examples of how the judiciary works. When it comes to the prosecution, so as not to forget it, the prosecution fully fits into the DOS scenario that was made, because of the way it works. I don't have to say anything at all - everyone, I apologize if I sometimes say the prosecution or the judiciary, but I don't mean everything, because it's about people who were appointed at DOS times to implement DOS party policy. When it comes to that, I must mention, you all know that at the time of "Sablje" here at the unpublic session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the law has been changed and the government has been given the opportunity to appoint deputy prosecutors. Now you can think for yourself what it is to subdue the executive authority over the judiciary when the government is given the opportunity to appoint deputy prosecutors. I'll use the remaining 10 minutes. So, when we have two sexes, on the one hand the judge, and I told you 150 of the presidents of the courts and the judge was appointed by the DOS party criteria, and on the other hand the prosecutor, the deputy prosecutors appointed by the government (and no offense to anyone, and the first one proposed by the government), then you have a closed system -- the cadiya sues you, the cadiya sues you. I'll see if any items are solved without DOS or DS giving consent. That's why there's so much shouting in the paper about these changes that follow in the judiciary. Why? Because they are afraid of coming out of drawers, well-guarded drawers, those criminal charges that people have, believing in justice and justice, Serbia, institutions, the state, have endured and have not seen the light of day so far, because it was not good for those to whom it applies, and it was also politically ugly for those to whom it was concerned. I have here a list of the Administrative Board, a list of SPS MPs against whom a criminal report has been filed. I am pleased to say that the state has managed to stand at the throat of Ambassador Hranet Peric and to press charges for giving a stove to the refugee from Cosmet. As a result, criminal charges have been filed against him for abuse of his official position. And it's not some stove, it's a wooden stove, and it's got to be something to be... It's a woodloaf, you're right. And Franislav Peric should be charged for it. Not to mention the example of the MP against whom criminal charges have been filed for not preventing riots in public, sports and other manifestations; an example of MP Joce Arsic, all of whom, as president of the SO, gave guarantees, counter-guarantees to pay workers in one company. Meanwhile, the municipal prosecutor says -- it's all right, it's in accordance with the law, there's no criminal responsibility. The D.A. says - everything's fine, the municipality's not damaged, but the county says - no, no, it's got to cramp yet, it has to know who's boss here. I think that the annals of the judiciary will be the case of a municipal prosecutor from Bac, whom his colleague accused of committing a serious crime of perjury in that he used, quoting "a hunting dog, pushing him to death with words—hold him, hold him, catch him, catch him, and commit a serious crime, after which that dog killed the grizzly and inflicted great damage. Admit it, it's about serious crimes that need to be sanctioned for sure, and that's about justice rights. At the same time, criminal charges were filed against other people who were supposed to do their job. One of them is Branislav Ivkovic. Now we know there was this criminal report here, but he served DOS to try and break the SPS and make a political profit. Why are we talking about justice and justice? The Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the previous, and be careful, it can happen to everyone... The deputy prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia's housing committee, without the right to sign, spent six months in prison, and the president of the Commission, who was right to sign, the one who sat here, Ivkovic, who was breaking our party and the DOS, gave him support, he sat down during that time, he was talking about democracy, about justice, about justice and some of the so-called things. That's something you should absolutely know. These are examples of double justice. As an example of how people are treated, I cannot say no to President Slobodan Milosevic, who, whether or not liked it, was the previous president of both Serbia and Yugoslavia; regardless of what anyone thought of him, the fact is that, contrary to the decision, he was kidnapped from the court and taken to The Hague tribunal. We know that there is a government decision, under the number of official contents, to authorise a person to surrender from prison, i.e. to take the defendant for a serious violation of international law, etc. And we know the name of the man who was signed, the assistant minister of justice. We know, and it exists in official documentation. Sooner or later, and I believe the better for Serbia and for our future, it will be the subject of judicial work. No one can convince me that there is justice and justice if, on the one hand, the prosecution is silent and not responding, and on the other hand it reacts to certain things. Of course, it should also be the subject of the prosecution and the judiciary, but appropriate punishment should be applied. I'm not going to mention the name of one university professor, director of one institution, because there's a dispute in progress, but I was in a position to hear from his lawyer about the extension of the indictment against him. Believe it or not, the extension of the indictment against him contains a qualification of abuse of official position because he bought an electric saw, stamps and so on, 18,240 dinars and a wooden ceilinger worth two thousand and some dinars. Hey, people, do you understand the situation of justice towards people in Serbia when this is why criminal charges are filed, and because of the kidnapping of people, because of what they did, nothing. I'm going to mention another example of the Palill community, an example of the two people against whom the application was filed, but only at the time of "Sabre. " At that time, they were the leaders of the local community, and you know what the local community is. On the basis of the appropriate decision, according to the consent of the Ministry of Finance, the 1998 government, have leased a business room for the Youth Association, with the obligation to pay all the costs. Since there's nothing hidden, there's all this paperwork, with contracts, with the consent of the government, since it's state property, it's all known in black on white and it was all in the archives of SO Palilula, and it was all waiting for the time of "Sabre" to then file a criminal report against these people. There are countless examples like this. There is little time for a congregation debate, as far as I could, on behalf of the SPS, to tell you the cases of people who have been accused of abuse of official office and who have been the subject of the work of Serbian judicial authorities for the past few years and who, knowing that they are not guilty, are the subject of the work of the judiciary without taking appropriate measures. That's why little problems, these petty ones, like stealing when voting in Bodrum, don't see the light of day. The only member of parliament who filed a criminal report for stealing when voting on the election of NBS governors was the SPS parliamentary group, and there is no philosophy there. The most responsible in this assembly are the secretary and president of the National Assembly – the secretary for the work of the service and the president for everything else, because the Rules of Procedure obliges him to do so. The president and secretary of the National Assembly of the previous assembly have committed several crimes and should not watch movies, to determine who is where he voted, who used the card, because MPs hide each other and won't say anything. The secretary must answer whether the service with or without his knowledge used the cards when voting. Why did the president of the National Assembly not allow the head of a parliamentary group, given the circumstances, it was me, to get the documents, but only three months after we filed a criminal report. It must be known whether it was done consciously or unconsciously, because you have both in one case and in another the elements of the crime. But here you go around, you don't mention what's the point. Things want to go wrong. I also have here the document of a magazine, a weekly who in August 2000 mentioned ten affairs that rocked Serbia, and mentions in the text that there are 45 and maybe 60. It's about affairs where, if desired, it could penetrate into the depths and see who's who and why he's damaged. I say once again - DOS, DS, members of the previous government are untouchable to the judiciary because they have appointed these people. When you set up 150 court presidents, of 160, with a degree of moral and professional quality that was then, with such average grades, the length of study, they become obedient. Then they do what they're asked to do. There's no philosophy here. The charges are being filed against someone and being tried by someone. The indictment doesn't rise against another, and it stands in a drawer waiting for some better days. That's Serbia's harsh reality. Of course, I can be dissatisfied with certain proposals from the High Council of Justice, but the fact is he's trying to move something forward. Now I've seen a fellow Stefanovic, not to mention his case, burned down a man's house, four years of justice can't determine what he is, and you know who the perpetrator is. To finish, the situation in the judiciary is bad, but it may be better if we have the courage to take a step forward and that law and justice go hand in hand. I have a few more things to say, 15 more seconds, since there were a few cases on the board that I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, as one of the members of the Committee, mentioned people who, in my opinion, could not be elected. One of them is also a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar, for reasons he has neither moral nor human quality. This way I formally dispute his choice, because I did so on the Committee, but I was too loud. In the meantime, I received data that he has several criminal charges against him, so it would not be good to be elected president, because the president of the court should be someone with impeccable moral and professional qualities and serve as an example of debt rather than being the subject of justice. In any case, we will do a big job if we take a step forward and make it feel safe after a long time (even if it doesn't take a long time, let it be a start) for citizens in Serbia to feel safe and to know that there is justice and justice in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13155	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Bosko Ristic, a replica to mention the DS, and for this point, Mr Ristic is an authorised representative. At the same time, I warn you, some things cannot, as you have heard, beseech all the observers on the balcony, are not allowed any reaction, just as it is not possible, as the MP said - a wooden oven on coal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13156	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard all about it in the past 20 minutes, I just haven't heard about the candidates and the way they choose candidates for the bearers of the most significant judicial functions. We've heard what's happened before, but we haven't heard what's going to happen at this session and what's going to happen during the vote. Just the results of the vote will show that it is politicisation. It is those who have the most challenged individuals who are now candidates, who have passed through the Justice Committee, who are now supporting those who claim to have been politically manipulated in the past and who have worked under political pressure. That's what he says about the critic. Those who say politicisation was conducted in the previous period, during the government in which the DS had significant participation, are now voting for those who have disputed over the past period. But I leave it to the public to judge politically about those who bring such things up. However, the choice of candidates now under way shows that there is insufficient readiness to make a positive move in the judiciary. What does that mean? I'll give you an example of a candidate for Supreme Court President. Vida Shkero's candidate won the General Session (this is the highest authority in the Supreme Court, which gives a secret vote on candidates for the Supreme Court to the High Court of Justice) only nine votes. Candidates who received more than 20 votes in the secret statement of all judges did not pass the general session of the Supreme Court. What's he talking about? The same SPS members disputed Mrs. Vida Shkero during the previous period. What later changed in her behavior, in her qualities, that they support her choice? We'll see about that when we vote. We will hear during this debate that people will be challenged, and they are constantly and consistently challenged in the past period. I can agree with one thing, that the situation in the judiciary is not good, that the previous government, and the previous assembly, did not make enough positive moves. It is in the part of showing willingness that the judicial authority should get its face, to get a basis in a set of judicial laws, it is a positive shift. It is true that there have been concrete shifts in the equipment of the courts. However, it is all small and insufficient. Serbian citizens have not been given the right to timely justice. In a large number of trials, they take too long. I'm not going to deal with specific examples. From my legal practice, I can give you a series of examples where people are being persecuted, they're being conducted, and they're eventually convicted, but it comes in the domain of free judicial conviction. Sometimes a judge's conviction can be wrong... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But there must always be an instance and a guarantee that the right will be applied in an adequate manner. I have not lost confidence in justice and in the Serbian judiciary, but it must fundamentally change, reform, become more efficient, professional and get out of it those who are not worthy of judicial office to perform. These are those who conducted politically motivated persecution and those who participated in election thefts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13157	Thank you. The first line, Mr. Dacic, is a replica to the mention of the SPS parliamentary group. Then he answered the words of the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13158	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ristic, you are feeling lonely today, since there are no comrades and comrades of the Democrats in today's session. It was probably interesting for them yesterday just to ruin that cohabitation they had with those who are currently in power. I also want to say to them, we can, as an SPS, talk about everything, but to bring down Kostunica so that Tadic can come back and go back to Goran Vesic, Djelic, Janjušević and Kolesar – don't ask us for so much masochism. As for what we're talking about today, Mrs. Vida... I've heard that there are law school students here, or some other college; it's obvious that the ideal of political structures and political authorities is that you should be as burning as you are, that you have the longest average of study, and the greater party internship or desire to be obedient to someone. Today, we have a situation that the Democratic Party, which in the past three years has replaced everything it has been able to replace, including cleaning women in courts, because they were once SPS voters or assume that they were, is now talking about the independence of the judiciary, democracy, that the presidents of the courts are being illegally replaced, and they forget that the Serbian Constitutional Court has declared an unconstitutional provision under which Mrs Natasa Micic has appointed the presidents of the courts during the state of emergency. The Constitutional Court didn't do the right thing. He declared an unconstitutional provision and order and decision, leaving these people to continue to be the president of courts, prosecutors, etc. Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero was on DOS. You eventually replaced her or forced her to resign, anyway. We were against her, but I must say that we were against her because we felt that she was guilty of handing over Slobodan Milosevic, because it is well known in the legal system that someone cannot lose a prisoner or detainee from custody. Slobodan Milosevic was detained in Belgrade County Prison on the basis of another criminal report, he disappeared during June 28th. The order could have been given, as it goes under our law and constitution, only by someone in the area of justice. As for this, it has been established that Vida Petrovic-Skero has not given such a warrant, such a warrant was given in writing by Assistant Minister Batic, Mr Dragan Vulic. Here is the warrant, and it reads: "On the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I order you to hand over the defendant Milosevic Slobodan to the authorised representatives of the International Tribunal for the criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law... "Assistant of the Minister. And now Mr. Ristic is talking about the fact that the executive power interferes in the judiciary, and where it will interfere more than this. I also ask Minister Stojkovic – is this a criminal offence and will someone answer for it, because it is part of a criminal report filed by the SPS against those responsible for the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic? And as for what Zarko Obradovic was talking about (I apologize, Mr. President, only this sentence), of course those brought by DOS to be judges and prosecutors in the past few years, as far as the SPS is concerned, had the opposite principle of presummation of innocence. Under that principle, no one is guilty until proven guilty, and on the principle of DOS at the time, all the Socialists were guilty until they proved not guilty. This Bolets man, because he was a socialist, was sentenced to three months for allegedly receiving a 500-mark bribe. I was just counting on how many years or centuries it took those Democrats Janjusevic and Kolesar to be in jail when this one was given three months for 500 marks. I can't calculate whether it's 100, 200, 300 or 500 years old, friends and fellow Democrats.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13159	Please, 216 years and 18 months, but it's not a matter of mathematics now, it's a matter of restrictions on the Rules of Procedure. The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vukic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that these authorities and the close authorities have re-encouraged themselves; they know, there will be another week, another month of fat to be used, to your great happiness, and to your people's misfortune; rejoice, but you just need to get out on the street and see how the people and the citizens of Serbia live. Then you wouldn't look forward to it, especially if you looked at how many people and citizens of Serbia believe you. Then you would well consider whether you would address with such enthusiasm with these speakers and MPs and citizens of Serbia. We are talking about something which is a political problem, unfortunately, a couple of excellencies in the past 15 years, we are talking about something that all authorities have tried in different ways to interfere with, trying to determine more or less similar judges, and that certainly all those who are opposed to their will or who are trying to preserve at certain times personal moral integrity and justice, when it comes to judges, by law, law and justice, or prosecutors when they make a decision to press charges against someone who is not in accordance with the political will of the majority or not to raise them, although it is under the pressure of the ruling majority to do so. Unfortunately, there are few such bright examples in the past 15 years. In time, as I personally participated in this, several political processes against MPs and people from the SRS were under way. We were chased here in the Assembly by a certain Deret, who was bought by representatives of the then government to step out of the SRS parliamentary group, that we had attacked him in the hallway, and we were not in Belgrade at all, the two of us, the five against whom he had been led all day. And I wouldn't mind taking part in it, I'd brag about it in front of everyone, but I really didn't. They ran the mounted process, the poor judges knew they had to end it somehow, so they begged God to postpone it, to spend some time. It was the same thing that happened in front of a gjilan criminal court, so I'll tell you how it happened. Namely, they made a political decision that Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic would be sentenced to 30 days in prison. However, they were judges of moral integrity. One later said that he loved Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS most in private. After they had to, they were sentenced to 10 days in prison. But then the warrant arrived from Belgrade and the helicopter landed, and in the second-degree procedure they changed the decision, changed it to two months, so they gave it a month longer to lie in a grillan cadet because they were insubordinate judges of the law enforcement authority. We here today have a proposal that, as you know, the SRS do not plead ad personam, we have always pleaded in principle, we have always spoken in general, we have made our remarks in the very way of proposing judges, prosecutors, president of courts. The fact is that the High Council of Justice, proposing many people for such judicial functions, did not have clear enough criteria. It is amazing that those who have been associates for two years are proposed for judges, and that those who have been associates for 10 years do not have such a right and a possibility, or there is no clear distinction, which is why they have the right to do so, and these others do not have that right. Here, a certain Zeljko Scepanovic is proposed as the judge of Belgrade's District Court. We have only a few examples against which we will be, not those we will especially praise. This is Zeljko Scepanovic, who received a warrant from the Democratic Party, and if Mr Bosko Ristic is there, I would like to tell him what people are doing to him, in which the pub ordered him to make a condemning verdict against Vojislav Seselj and Petar Panic in the case of Nikola Barovic against Vojislav Seselj. He was told in that bar -- after you reached that verdict, and he said -- I have no evidence against Vojislav Seselj, I have no evidence against Peter Panic. They told him -- since that's the case, your only chance and the only way to make progress in the District Court is to make a judgment against the leader of the Serbian Radical Party. He, of course, hurried faster and faster and made such a judgment. If he says I'm lying somewhere, I'll tell him the time and place of a secret encounter with one of those police informants, otherwise the senior officials of the Democratic Party. I will say the time and place, as I will tell them the time and place where that former chief Uboba met with Petro Panic and tried to force him to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj for the most serious crimes. Imagine, at the time, we had the DA and the head of the district court, Mr. Minister, and I don't see anyone on official duty reacting on that matter, as well as the chief of the Ubba or the BIA, as you already call it, comes to him. That gang got together and they called Peter Panic into "Milosov Konak" with another criminal, and they told him -- you're gonna testify against Vojislav Seselj, and if you don't testify, you're gonna end up behind bars because of it and what we can do wrong for you. So that’s what they did, and today they give us moral sermons and moral lectures. No one's talking about it. This Zeljko Scepanovic cannot be a judge of the District Court. Perhaps, perhaps you've made a deal with your coalition partners, perhaps someone has agreed, but as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we tell him openly – at the moment, which is as soon as there are elections, because your joy, your joy, your majority, lasts while there's a little fat in power, while it's still going on, but it won't be much longer, as soon as the elections come, you know that everything will change. And, let me immediately inform you, for those who are not informed and who do not even read public opinion research: neither Tadic nor Bosko Ristic nor Dusan Petrovic will come to power, but rather Serbian radicals, who have much more support for Serbian citizens, will come. One who has promised to be judge of the District Court against someone has reached a judgment cannot and must not be judge of the District Court. It can be whatever it wants in this country, but it can't be. You see how we now show respect for moral principles. We were attacking Petrovic-Skero with the worst words. There was no shame we didn't use to talk about Vida Petrovic-Skero, who, at the time of the Dosmanian Revolution, played someone who should, to God's sake, would now be the one who was going to conduct the legal order, and we all saw that it had nothing to do with the legal order, that it was one savagery in which it was going to do what it did, how it came in, to arrest, to harass, to shut down, to do what it wanted and to do what it wanted. At one point, however, Vida Petrovic-Skero showed some kind of moral integrity and opposed the continued pressure of the dossing bandits. She really showed some courage at one point, and that's the thing that is for respect. But it can't be respectful that you here suggest that there be promoted judges and some other people who participated in the direct persecution of political indifferences. There are prosecutors here who have been pressing charges against people for handing out bonuses to their workers. I think that's where Zivanko Radovanchev went, not guilty or obliged, and they shared in the time of the transitional government with their fists and hats. Now I'm going to give you my example, since I don't care, there are 140 criminal charges against me. The lunatics didn't know what else to do, so they filed criminal charges, and it's no argument, Obradovic, to say, that against the man in Novi Pazar he has a criminal record. So what? That man, as far as I can tell, is far more honest than all the other candidates. It's Milos Mladenovic, and he's supposed to be the head of the municipal court in Novi Pazar, but it looks like some want to put him away because he defended Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, because he has conducted proceedings against the mafia and anti-Cyptarian terrorists. Because some people aren't answering, because they got into some business with someone else, not him, but someone else. They've been pressing charges against people, to see how.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13161	Mr. Wolfie, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13162	I'm using. So, they say, a criminal report has arrived; he didn't know the unfortunate Djelic was going to do what he was going to do but go after the bonuses, because he couldn't get the big criminals to come after him, everyone went straight to DOS, but went after the people for the bons. From January to October of the month, until there was a change of government in 2000, I had no idea, I never heard from anyone in my life, but in principle an objective responsibility of around 300,000 dinars, so that workers would have 1,000 dinars per month or every two months to survive, they were getting credits. However, at the time of the transitional government, when I was replaced by three commissioners, they from October to December (I will not speak of names) give three times as many bonuses as I do in 10 months, and I am being charged with criminal charges, and they are not going against them. Now explain to me whether he was normal in the Serbian government who worked and then the prosecutor who insisted on it in the investigation. I don't know if they've been pressing charges or not, they've never called me again, or maybe I've messed up and messed up from all the procedures they're running and I don't know what they want anymore. I'm telling you how justice and justice were understood in this country. Everyone did what he wanted and how he wanted, it was just important how political opponents would be persecuted, and these criminals robbed the whole country, took everything alive, those who say we sold a big domestic bank, and that Cypriot bank with 86.43%, where the state of dinars didn't get it. Those who write up a tender for one company (and for that I will bring you papers, Mr. Minister) and can't pass them; make a tender that has to get a Fiat, to get a Delta, so it doesn't get because it has a bad price and quality ratio, it gets another firm. Then they say we don't need those vehicles at all, but now we're going to go rent the Deltin vehicles for five years, and it costs more money to rent them for five years than to buy these vehicles. Who's chasing, Mr. Minister? Or you can't, because they're the directors of your coalition partners, the ones you're all defending so warmly yesterday, which is why you won't allow a debate in this House. Are you afraid to argue? You said demagogy was radical. Let's discuss whether we're right or they're right, see who invented Dafina and the Horse, because they're a little bit of a newspaper about it. Let's see if that's what the radicals or others are responsible for. What I'm asking of you, and I'm not going to attack you for what you're being attacked by those of the Democratic Party, because I think you're less bad than those who were before you and those who were trying to create not legal order, but savagery as some kind of supreme legal and moral principle. There was no measure in that, no matter what they thought, no matter how they thought, they could do it. I am confident, and I would like you to accept it, and I am confident that the citizens of Serbia want it, that we must ensure that the prosecutor's office is independent in the coming period. It's not the prosecution's independence, as some ignorant people say from here, but it's on its own, and the judiciary, or the judiciary, is independent. We're a long way from that. What's our obligation, it's that we all try to make it so. We have shown you in the case of, say, Vidi Petrovic-Škero that party attitudes, even personal attitudes, do not have to be a priority, because we will say against her in this debate at least, although there are no words that we did not say for her in our own time, when she was one of the periances of the Dosmanian regime. After that, we saw, she also showed courage and moral credibility to oppose Djindjic's government and their orders to further destroy political opponents. This is something to respect We respect, which has nothing to do with the SRS, which, if they could, only spoke against the SRS, but showed some kind of moral integrity. And for these inhumans, for these tiny souls, for those we'll "give you a pass to county court, condemn a man". His is "judgmental confidence." So, where's your evidence? "My jurisprudence, we haven't found any new suspects." Are you on the case? I know it is, Mr. Minister. Eyewitnesses came in who say in the main search "we don't recognize the defendant as the man who committed the attack, we don't recognize him as someone who did the incriminating shop." All witnesses say it's impossible for the defendant to do something similar on that day, but the judge, because he read the newspaper, "Today" and "Blic" (and he can't read anything else but "Today" and "Blic", the daily newsletters of the Democratic Party and some of their fine stickers) and after reading the crime, he reached a verdict there. Well, we don't need a judge like that. We don't want judges who, based on what they're writing today, Blic or I don't know what newspaper to make judgments in this country. We want judges who will pass judgments by the letter of the law, according to the principles of justice, justice and justice. We want prosecutors who, in accordance with the law, are going to press charges, not when he's being turned by a little fiddler in power, who thinks he's very strong and very powerful because he managed to take off 15 kilos when Djindjic ordered something like that, within 15 days. Since he dialed that phone number, that's when the prosecutor has to press charges and I don't know what he's doing. Now, that can't do it anymore. I hope you, Mr. Minister, will respect our remarks, that you will not campaign against this man from Novi Pazar, because I think Milan Veselinović, who lives in Novi Pazar, can say much about it. A man can't be convicted in advance and banned from doing what he's done all his life because he's been on the battlefield, because he's defended Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija and in Peqa, because he's tried the Shiptar terrorists and because he won't let mobsters do anything he wants to do in Novi Pazar. One more thing: why were you afraid to say anything about that friend? How do you publish "Today", "Blic" and "B92" any nonsense, why do you have to listen at this point? They're going on a campaign, three days are calling some unfortunate guests, I see, they're changing, I'm just waiting for each member of the DS and some other parties to be a guest on their shows and write a column in their newspaper. Now because they write there, which almost nobody reads, except us who have to, you give up your decisions or your intentions. Did this Prijic prove to be someone very good, someone who acts in accordance with the law somewhere? Well, it's not. You're all laughing and you all know it's not, and you can't say anything, because they're going to attack "Today" and "Blic." We're so worried about being attacked by "Today" and "Blic." We will be defended by the citizens of Serbia because they know we're telling the truth. Now the one who wrote the charges, falsified, who at the time of "Sabre" only ordered not to arrest and shoot all the descendants of Karadjord because their ancestors participated in the rise of the First Serbian uprising, so don't touch it, because he's a holy cow, he's a god. Is he your holy cow, Minister? I don't know what it is, but the world isn't at all. I don't care, right to tell you. What are these blackmails, whose pressures are they, which ambassadors call for such people? As far as we're concerned, tell us we know. Imagine, "they are now trying to replace him, they want to make fun of the trial for the murder of the then Serbian prime minister, so they want to replace Prijic". No one's answering that, no one's saying anything. We want to switch, so what? We want to replace no less than the person who arrested, filed charges against the people, didn't know why he was pressing charges, did everything in agreement, not on his own, but in direct agreement with the police and executive authorities. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? You don't know, you have no proof. I'm surprised you don't have any evidence, Mr. Secretary. They didn't do anything else, they just made a deal. Now let's arrest this guy, let's arrest that guy, let's harass that guy, let's harass him. No one can say that. Will he always cheer and dress for us in Serbia? Will it be forever, because you don't have the courage, because you were attacked by "Today", "Blic" and "B92"? Do you think every day someone should look back on what someone's going to say in the paper? Politicians are here to create not only a picture of society, but to create society, to be better and different from what it is today. We are the ones who need to make it better for the citizens of Serbia, not for the satisfaction of Veran Matic, Gruja Spasovic, and I don't know who else. (President: Mr. Wolf, please bring your presentation to an end. I'm bringing the end. I hope you will not vote for Scepanovic Željko and these others by telling them at the bar – you will go to the district court if you make a verdict against our political opponents. In the end, let me ask myself, though I have to say that none of us got those fines for 500 marks or 500 euros, but if he got three years for 500 marks, how many years would it take to get those whose shift, that is, to discuss the shift yesterday, prevented all of you together? I'm afraid it'll go away in tens of thousands of years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13163	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Šormaz and then the replicas - Bosko Ristić and Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13164	I want only according to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Articles 100, 2 and 3, as Mr. Vukic said, looking towards the part of the Assembly where I was sitting, smiling, about the story about Prijic, and how no one said anything. I mean, it's not exactly like that. Let's just say I was on TV "Politics" and I said my opinion, but I'm not a republican prosecutor. If I were to ask myself, if I were a republican prosecutor, I would have replaced Prijic from the post of special prosecutor or prosecutor of that special department for the murder of General Bosko Buhe. So I would have replaced him because the trial failed or because Prijic didn't know how to prepare the evidence, to organise proceedings against the accused or because he accused the wrong people. So one of those two cases is. There's no third option. So he either didn't know he was doing his job or he accused the wrong people. Therefore, in my opinion he should be removed, but the minister you spoke to has nothing to do with it. That's the D.A.'s office. Here, we help the D.A. from the pay phone, tell him what we can do, so now let him do his job as well as he can. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13165	I believe you misunderstood Mr. Wolf's view. The People's MP Bosko Ristic first called for the replica, and then the MP Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13166	The question of whether I've weakened - I haven't weakened, I'm holding the same weight, so I don't find myself in it. My name is explicitly mentioned, and I want to answer some things. The speaker is constantly told about the independent judiciary and independent judges who are independent when deciding. Very often, specific items are mentioned from this pay phone. That shouldn't be practice. The congregation should not deal with specific matters, both those who are finished and those who are in progress. That's what a clean judiciary should do. I hope it may be a little bit of an emotional explosion in replication, in response to argument, but in speech, MPs who really want to contribute to the independence of the judiciary are recognized here. However, in order to ensure essential independence, it is necessary to ensure self-financing and part of the budget that will apply to the judiciary. I think everyone will agree on that. Whether we will have political strength and consensus on this, it is a matter of political responsibility for each of us and the parties represented in parliament. What's going on in the judiciary? A large dose of nepotism is now being seen in the judiciary. A large number of judicial officials and their children are now in the judiciary. Now it's a very noticeable case. Now among the candidates are the future sister-in-law of the current minister, the children of some judges, the president of the Senior Trade Court, former or current judges. By the last names of those who deal with the judiciary, those who know the opportunities in the judiciary see that they have a very large number of godfather ties. Now I wouldn't talk about specific names, because I said I wouldn't challenge candidates for public office holders in the judiciary by name and last name. This will be done by MPs from the middle where these candidates come from and who best know these candidates. That's why I think there's politicization here. Politicalisation is also visible in the views of individual political parties on the election of individual candidates. What did we have to comment on? We had an objection to the judiciary and to individual holders of judicial functions that did not respond to Mr Dinkic's incursion at the National Bank, as it was instructed, with long pipes. Now the same ones who challenged that break-in on October 5th or 6th vote yesterday against questioning Mr Dinkic's responsibilities. Where's the political morality? Who are these people who talk one by yesterday, and yesterday, they're pressing the red button to prevent the identification of responsibility? So there's no consistency. In this context, Serbian citizens will appreciate the political attitudes and seriousness of political parties that challenged the situation by yesterday, attacked people from the judiciary for not responding, and are now supporting the entire machinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13167	According to the replica, Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this pay phone has been mentioned on several occasions by Novi Pazar and my name, and that is why I want, as an MP from that city and from that neighborhood, to explain some things. Namely, you know the state of justice in all of Serbia, not just in Novi Pazar. Even Mr. Minister during his visit to Novi Pazar and that excess of inter-party struggles and wounded people prior to the elections said that in the new market justice system, chaos. There it is necessary to make changes, he says, as in many cities and environments. You know that the Serbian radicals about these loved ones of yours you have proposed and what your High Council has proposed and we don't have any god-knows-what opinions or cheerleading. I can say openly that no reason has been filed against someone not to be appointed to a certain post, at least as you say lawyers and lawyers, that someone who has not been convicted and has not been proven guilty, he is innocent. On this issue, as regards the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar, Mr Milos Mladenovic, whether or not criminal charges have been filed, I don't know, that man I don't know, believe me, I once saw him on TV and never again. I know one thing about him: that he worked in the oven district when it was the hardest, before the war and during the war. I also know that a man has come to Novi Pazar to strengthen the judiciary, and I also know that the mood of citizens is for change in the justice of the New Market. If you have any criminal acts that have been proven against him, the first one, as an MP from that region, I will not vote for this gentleman, and as he is being packed with criminal charges, I can tell all of us Mr. Vukic said that he no longer knows how many of these reports are written, but no evidence has been made against Mr. Vukic, which means that for the third - fourth time he is a national MP. It's simply not an argument to muddle someone. I also know that there are certain lobbies, both in the New Market and in every city that want to stretch their man. We Serbian radicals don't want to do this, but as a man in the area, I want to say openly -- if anyone knows any criminal acts that have been proven for this gentleman, we won't vote. If he doesn't know, please, we don't need to use some flat-rate arguments and evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13169	Thank you. Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13170	Since the replicas were mixed, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure etc., Mr. Ristic did so by the way with some of my views. By listening to Mr. Bosko Ristic and knowing what happened in the last three years, I must tell him that he is in legal and factual error. As I recall, Mr. Ristic was head of the committee who said the mandates belonged to the MPs, so Bane Ivkovic and these other sleepers, who were then awake, held the Democratic Party's power for several years. Bane Ivkovic had criminal charges that stood in your tables. Is that an independent judiciary? Is the pressure on the judiciary, on the prosecution's plea to keep Jovan Prijic special prosecutor? To be clear, the SPS is absolutely against him staying in that position. You're interpreting it any way you want, whether or not the pressure, but we're absolutely against it, because the man was imposing, questioning several thousand, and I'm not going to say that 12,000, maybe not all 12,000 were questioned; 12,000 people were arrested at a time of emergency, without a court ruling, without the right to an attorney. How can someone support a man to stay in that place? You, if you leave him in that place, will be wrong about moral principles. After all, what is the efficiency of his work, what was it effective in his work? Is there any case solved other than the Bosk Bohemian murder? Yesterday I read in the paper that Nenad Opacic was cleared of the charges, the truth in the Vojvodjan newspaper, and so on. What are we talking about here? Bosko Ristic says there is no need to talk about processes that are under way. Of course you don't need to talk, because it's pressure on the judicial authorities. At the time the DS and DOS authorities talked about processes that had not yet been launched, and first it was published on RTS – the process, and after a few days we could hear it, criminal reports were written. After all, you decided at the meeting who should be arrested in Serbia, at a meeting of your DOS political coalition. So, as far as these break-ins into the bank and everything else, which is, yes, the ones that did it need to match, that's our principled attitude. (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. There's only one problem, Mr. Ristic, they did it with you, so you can't be freed from that responsibility either. It's just that when you were supposed to be friends with them, they were your fists, and now you don't hesitate to talk about them all the worst. As far as we're concerned, we've never had an agreement with other parties except the DSS, and today we say it: it's better for this Serbia to be run by the DSS, than for what was an alternative at the time, which is the government of Zoran Zivkovic, so that in that government, Vladan Batic is a minister of justice, who wants to impose a death penalty to kill political opponents or be Zarko Korac, who organises "gay parades" in Serbia, or that in that government... (President: Mr. Dacic, four and a half minutes. All right, I could move on, but I could stop here with this. Just to correct Mr. Wolf, he misunderstood me. This man was not punished in Bolvac for 500 marks for three years, but three months, so that penalty for the DOS would not be ten thousand years, but perhaps two or three thousand years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13171	Mr. Replicator Wolf. You, what are you looking for? You have no right to replicate Mr. Dacic's exposure. You're the one who caused the replica. (Bosko Ristić, from the place: I did not mention the Wolf, or the SPS. What Mr. Dacic was saying was a replica of your exposure. You can do it by your book, but tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13172	According to Rules of Procedure, Article 100, which regulates that each MP should address MPs with due respect and must not take out data from the personal life of third parties for this speaker. Anyway, I didn't mention Mr. Dacic or the SPS, so there was no basis for replication. I'm mentioned by myself and my party, so by one of those two grounds, I had the right to reply. But anyway, I'm going through with the Rules of Procedure. First of all, "sleepers" allegedly supported by the DS and I as chairman of the Administrative Board are mentioned, with a number of criminal charges held in the drawer. I must say that a few of the MPs in your current assembly have also had criminal charges, that they have all called for immunity and that all of them have received immunity, along with Banet Ivkovic and others. As for the sleeper, I don't know who's giving some of your MPs sleeping pills now. You need to push each other to see who responds to the gurk, and who won't, at an adequate moment, at a call from some financial headquarters, respond by voting or abstinence during the vote. We'll see about that. There are already announcements in the public that most of your MPs are on the list and in agreement with some power centers outside the Assembly, which organize their own Parliament club somewhere on Dedinj. That's what we'll see when the time comes, that'll show individuals. As for the constitutionality and state of emergency that you were talking about, so that there would be no confusion, so as not to be disavowed, so as not to deceive people, especially law school students, the Constitutional Court has said that the state of emergency is constitutional, except for two provisions of the Emergency Decision. These are a provision on public information and a provision on the possibility of contacting suspects with a 45-day lawyer. It's just those two provisions. The Constitutional Court confirmed the constitutionality of the state of emergency, as the state was also at risk of its vital interests. Anyone who claims otherwise just wants to encourage and strengthen those forces that should have been contained in a state of emergency. This encouragement is particularly current, at the time of the second anniversary of the prime minister's death, and I think you should treat the fact and the situation with due respect. Everything else you talk about – that somewhere outside the courts there were meetings where decisions were made on the content of the judgments, I, as a lawyer, as a citizen of Serbia and as an MP, absolutely condemn. I condemn any attempt to interfere with the judiciary, but on the other hand, no one can take away my right to point to the lack of justice system, to influence its reforms actively, and to point out whenever there is nepotism, when there is a centre of power that wants to subjugate the judiciary or to speed up the difference based on political membership, as regards the position of citizens before the law. I believe that you too should be consistent and stand up for cleaning in your ranks, and above all for those who inspired that big election theft in 1996, which included the presidents of some judges and judges who have not yet come to the agenda to be resolved. Such initiatives always persist in breaking and returning to the applicants. In order to put an end to that politicization of justice, I think we need to get out of there. What's clearly been proven and what your president admitted to being a lex specialist is that there were election thefts and no one was responsible for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13173	Replica, the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, and the People's Messenger Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to try to apologize in a few sentences to those I may have hurt, or I really said what I shouldn't have said from this pay phone. In part, Mr Ristic was right when he said that the assembly speaker should not serve to present individual cases in court practice, because if the cases are not completed, if the proceedings are under way, we are indirectly putting pressure. That's true, but I did it because these examples are so drastic and I'd say they point to one phenomenon that existed, and they're not drawn from the entire system as something that should only represent a certain individual function. A few things have been said here that I can't agree with. Namely, in no single civilized country in the world, it is not possible for a prosecutor to determine your detention, as it was during "Sablje", Mr. Ristic, and I'm sure you as a school lawyer know that. We've got an example of two people whom the D.A. assigned to custody, no matter what I think of these people, I don't think very well. It's Stanisic and Simatovic, right? To them, the prosecutor unlawfully, without consulting the judge, has ordered detention in the course of the "Sabbe" action. People had no right to the official defender, and it is not true that they did, several of them did not, and the stupidity of the sayings, or arguments when some were released, and they were arrested for nothing, went to these limits that, let's say, one of the political opponents, who was detained during the "Sabbe" action, why he was detained in custody (so, the legal institute was applied) was said – because it was estimated to pose a threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine now – one Uroš Šuvakovic poses a danger to the security of the Republic of Serbia. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. Uroš Šuvaković poses a threat to the security of the Republic. That we don't know Urosh Shuvakovic, that everyone here doesn't know him in this room, that you might think it's possible, but it's not. I don't insult Urosh Shuvakovic, I respect him, but I know he could never endanger security and I know that no one could ever think of that. They knew it too, and you know it, Mr. Ristic, why he was in custody. Do you know why? Because of a TV show, because he resented some of yours, so he had to end up behind bars. Our time is yet to come, yours in particular. (President: I agree. ) Since I answered Mr. Dacic's line, let me tell him, I may have misunderstood this one in Bolovac that it wasn't three years but three months, but I couldn't figure out a big enough number for these coalition partners of yours, for what you're supporting today, to find. Even if there are three months, they will again remain 200-300,000 years for all the evil they have done to Serbian citizens. I'm sorry you supported them in that. I hope for the other day, when by the letter of the law, by the letter of the Rules of Procedure, it's on the agenda, you won't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13175	Thank you. Replication to the presentation of the People's MP Bosko Ristic, MP Ivica Dacic. I'm asking everyone who says they respect the time for a three-minute replica, so I don't have to warn. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13176	Speaking of coalition partners, no one in their history has been very happy with the coalition partners, nor us, nor you, nor those who are now, etc. I've said more than once, as far as we're concerned, we have a strategic agreement with the DSS, we haven't entered individual personnel issues. As long as we have a strategic agreement, we're one serious political party and we don't have sleepers. Sleeper's got it. To ask Mr Ristic, how come Nenad Bogdanovic did not vote for Predrag Markovic's shift. Is he asleep? Here's a list, Mr. Ristic, I don't know if you're some other factor in DS or not, but we can give this to Cedi Jovanovic, because he's some factor in DS, or maybe he's not anymore. But in any case, Nenad Bogdanovic did not vote for the shift of Predrag Markovic. Whose sleeper is he? As far as DS is concerned, the DS is expressing a high degree of reluctance towards the SPS, which we are pleased to accept and I must say that we have twice as much reluctance towards them as they have towards us. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, it certainly has repeatedly tried to hold some political sermons here to other political parties about how they want to behave, who they want to be in a coalition with, who they don't want to be in a coalition with, etc. As far as we're concerned, DS is a party we don't have any co-operation with and we don't have any relations with. Would we like the future Serbian government to be different? Of course we would. Our goal is not to support anyone's government in the next election, but to support our government. Of course, that's possible, gentlemen, and you know it, because we were in such a government together. I hope we'll be in some kind of government again. The Democratic Party should understand: you cannot attack the SPS for the past ten years when we have been in power. So, you're not good with socialists, you're not good with those socialists who stayed socialists after five years of persecution, and you're good with Bogoljub Karic, you're good with those who made money through the Socialists. Of course they're good for you, because money likes money. (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. As far as we're concerned, we won't be working for anyone else. We will work for Serbia and the strategic interests of the SPS. Mr. Ristic, I will bring you from above, as soon as I go to the office, I ask the chairman to be as nice as he is, to allow me to read to Mr. Ristic the Constitutional Court's decision on what the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. Don't say anything that isn't true. The Constitutional Court declared many of the provisions and orders that were unconstitutional at the time of the emergency. Don't say only two were declared unconstitutional. It is their responsibility that the Constitutional Court did not go to the end, so that it did not undo all the actions and actions that arise. The ones that are... (President: Thank you, Mr. Dacic.) )......................................................................................................... Introduce the state of emergency and bring those non-constitutional provisions should also respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13177	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I'll respect and I'll be nice, whatever it takes, if you respect the time you have for replication. First, the People's MP Alexander Vukic came forward, and on what basis are you, Mr. Ristic, looking for a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know we can all pursue ourselves like this indefinitely, but Serbia's citizens won't get any better than that. What our mission here is, above all, to make a better life for the citizens of Serbia and to do something for them. As far as the coalitions are concerned, there's no secret about us. From 1992 to June 1993, we supported the minority government of the SPS and were in the Serbian government from March 1998 to the five-October revolution in 2000. We spent all the rest of our time in opposition, being persecuted, and for what we did, we don't regret it, because we never took part in crime and thieving, first of all. That's why we don't speak a single word to our former coalition partners, and for those we thought had gone into crime, we've always talked to the thief from this pay phone and every other place. I asked here, not by chance, who's responsible for Dafiment Bank and Jugocank Bank. Jezimir Vasiljevic said that Vojislav Seselj and radicals were the only ones who did not ask for money. Your leaders were left with 100,000 francs and 100,000 marks because you asked to kidnap. I think one of the DS leaders took that money; today he's in the DS, hasn't been in the DS recently. That's what Jezimir Vasiljevic said about Dragoljub Micunovic, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm not wrong. He didn't charge any radicals. Did any of us, now that I answer that question to Mr. Dacic, take the money from Dafiment Bank in a bag? Never a radical. I know who he is. They were changing parties, so they were a little in the SPS, so they were a little in the democratic bloc, so they're big left-handed again. No radical has ever done that. As far as the coalition is concerned, we don't mind. And we offered the coalition to the DSS. Then we didn't whine, complain, we said -- we want to make a government with the Democratic Party of Serbia; if that government isn't possible, if you don't want that government, form it whatever you want, we go to opposition. People in the DSS wanted much more for coalition partners, obviously, the SPS, G17 plus, SDP, SPO, NS and we don't mind. We're in opposition, we just think the results of the government's work are catastrophic. We think the results of the government's work are very bad. On the other hand, it does not govern this country and is not the centre of this government, Vojislav Kostunica. It is formal. You know exactly who this government's financial center is, you know who's in good control of all the financial power centers in this country, and you're not going to take them down. You should explain that to the citizens of Serbia, as well as to everyone else who, contrary to all democratic... (President: Mr. Wolf, please finish your presentation, fourth minute.) )......................................................................................................... In principle, they didn't want to show good will to discuss it. We didn't ask for anything yesterday, except to talk about it. You ran away from the conversation, from the debate, you voted against the debate. Vote if you will for every minister, but you have escaped from talking about whether that minister is doing well or not. The problem is you're afraid to talk. In the future, whether or not we will have to join the coalition, let me tell you right away – our goal in the next election will be more than 100 MPs. As things stand today, we'll do it without trouble, but we'll have to find a small coalition partner. It is certain that the coalition potential of Serbian radicals is increasing in this regard, but in one thing there is a difference: there are never thieves and criminals that we will not support, those that the whole of Serbia knows they are, and that is the difference between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13179	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Ristic, Ivica Dacic had a replica of your exposure. Here's a replica to Alexander Vukic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13180	The mention of DS, former leader, current leader. So Mr. Vukitch mentioned DS, but I'd like to make something clear with the chairman. When I answer as an MP and I are being rephraseded as an MP, that's fine, but if he replicates to me, so spread it to the party, and I'm a representative of the parliamentary group, he gives me grounds to explain other things. So keep in mind what capacity I have reported to, as a representative of the parliamentary group or as an MP on the line, in order to allow me to plead, so that someone does not abuse the replica to attack the party or the parliamentary group that I belong to through my name. So that was for clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13181	I'll give you back your time, just to tell you, the Rules of Procedure don't know that possibility. So, you're an authorised DS officer here, you always come forward when you're mentioned and when they mention DS, and the Rules of Procedure don't know these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13182	If someone calls me personally, I ask myself to explain myself, and then in the replica, he mentions the party...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13183	Mr. Ristic, a moment, I'll give you back your time for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13184	This pay phone said some of them got rich through parties. That's what Mr. Dacic said clearly. Whether it was Dafina or Jadas, or others who participated in organised collection of money for one regime, and where the regime was financed, and then entered into some unbulful conflicts, wars, which individuals as war profiteers came out of – this was the case for independent, or independent judiciary and independent law enforcement authorities. But that didn't happen. This is exactly what we have left in the amanet by a regime that is prone to democratic change. I ask you, Mr. Dacic, what you did at that time to make the judiciary do its job, to prevent both Dafina and the Horse from doing what they did. Did you then give public support and did you provide political miles for the judiciary to be on its own and that it could take charge or were you looking on the side? You say before – anyone who observes that someone puts pressure on the judiciary should be responsible for it himself. And what did you do, what did your party do? You've benefited from that. Someone here says -- who took the money; and I want to know who took the money, to put an end to that question. Now we've arranged the financing of political parties, it's known they can finance themselves. Whether this government, this finance ministry and other bodies control the way they finance, I'm not getting into it, that's what the government needs to take care of. The laws should be respected. If there is a way of funding on the side, outside this parliament, to wake up some sleepers here and to vote for certain financial centres of power and to behave politically here to protect their financial interests, that is the topic for this parliament. You're all calling the press, the media. I hope that prominent officials of political parties follow what individuals in this country say, that they have their own parliamentary groups formed and organised elsewhere, and that only here are formally members of individual parties. I'm just waiting for that time to see. It's said to be my party's coalition partner, so you're my friends, coalition partners, you're talking about funding certain political groups, it's you, you're my political partners, if what you're saying now is that you're in a coalition through someone else with DS. In any case, I think we went too far in political debates, but in some things we agreed – that the situation in the judiciary should change. I have offered mechanisms, political readiness, and my own and political party to which I belong, to bring the situation to justice in some order, but not by choosing our friends, our best friends, our sister-in-laws, our children for judges, and thus exerting influence, but through parliament, in the conversation of three branches of government. We, as MPs, need to come out with political views, to political articulate through the working bodies, to talk and negotiate with representatives of the executive and judicial authorities. It is the only model and way Serbia can strengthen its judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13185	Replica, whose exposure, Mr. Dacic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13186	I'll use what I just asked the chairman to supplement my line with Mr. Ristic last time; of course, Mr. Vukic was talking about the SPS, but I wouldn't be going back to it right now. We were coalition partners, and life is such that in Serbia today everyone in the coalition is with everyone, and I can now tune with who participated in that or this shop. But what is certain is that the largest number of people who have been characterised in Serbia have not done anything in accordance with the law before October 5th, and some of them have already moved to DOS lines on October 6th. Therefore, you have our support entirely in this, and we ask that thieves who have been called on to be arrested by the socialists. But I have to tell you, you were our babies compared to what they came after. So, with all that in mind... And the SRS also knew all these things, and then when she supported the SPS, we all fought together to root out these things in those 10 years, or less, how much SRS was with us in the coalition. That's what I'm putting an end to, and it's not my intention at all to derail with the Serbian Radical Party. For me, the target I'm hitting is the Democratic Party. As far as that goes, it'll be further. As for the Democratic Party, it has helped us to clean up a lot, as for some objections about the election theft, because it took Banet Ivkovic from us. Before that, the DOS and another, who participated in all this, are now in the ranks of the parliamentary majority here in the Serbian Parliament. Simply, you are slowly helping us clean our ranks and we thank you for that. In any case, I have come forward solely for the purpose of reading Mr. Ristic's decision to the Constitutional Court, if you'll excuse me. (President: In three minutes, what you have left up to three minutes. ) On July 8th 2004, the Serbian Constitutional Court adopted a decision that reads like this – certain provisions of the Order on special measures applicable at the time of emergency were not in agreement with the Constitution and the law. To remind you of the measures: the state authorities have special powers during the emergency; the person can be forced to bring and retain in the official premises for up to 30 days; the person has no right to defend himself in terms of criminal law (this has been declared unconstitutional). The second point: it is established that the order to prevent public information, dispersal of the press and other notices of reasons for declaring the state of emergency and the application of measures at the time of emergency was not in agreement with the Constitution and the law. The order meant that only what came out of the government of the Republic of Serbia's communications bureau could be published at a time of emergency in the media. So it wasn't supposed to be at a time of emergency that you were going to take a different view of the reasons for introducing a state of emergency, and you know what that means? That means censorship. Third point: it is established that the Order on Special Measures in the Justice Area applied during the emergency period was not in agreement with the Constitution and the law. I'll read that provision, Mr. Ristic. As soon as possible, Mr. Dacic, you'll be done. Well, since you love Natasha Micic, let me read her order. So, the Order on special measures in the area of justice applied during the state of emergency was signed by Natasa Micic on 21 March 2003: Sonja Brkic, President of the District Court in Novi Sad, is named as acting President of the Supreme Court. The duty of the republican public prosecutor is temporarily suspended by Sinisa Simic. The official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office is named Djordje Ostojic. Officials of the post, previously read, are hereby authorised to take measures to suspend the president of the directly lower courts and public prosecutors and to appoint officials in accordance with the law. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been declared unconstitutional. What are you talking about, Mr. Ristic? You just claimed wrong here, whether out of ignorance or on purpose, however, that only two measures were suspended by the Constitutional Court's decision. Another decision is important here, which is that the director of the BIA under these orders had the right to, without a decision of the competent court, give a warrant for the listening of people. You've been using it a lot, listening to politicians and journalists during the state of emergency. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Now that we have to replace the people who are stationed unconstitutionally, you say it's an attack on the judiciary. I mean, Mr. Ristic, you're still in legal and factual error.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13187	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13188	Article 100. The Rules of Procedure must be respected by MPs, the National Assembly, a team before telling the truth. I'd like to remind you that during the SPS rule, there was an emergency situation in 1999, and then there were some information measures. That's what I'd like to remind you of. Remember the patriotic information and the announcements through all the media that the media is obliged to report in a patriotic way. There were also announcements of a patriotic trial, but the Constitutional Court never declared it because it was in the state it was in. I don't have much praise for this Constitutional Court either. This Constitutional Court, according to my personal conviction, has politically motivated decisions. This was about mandates, Mr. Dacic was talking about mandates, about Banet Ivkovic. He says the board of directors has decided that the terms of office have been passed on to the MPs. The SPS appeared with blank resignations, which were not submitted personally by MPs. This was established on the Administrative Board and that was the only reason why their resignations were not activated. We also now have the Constitutional Court's decision that the term of office belongs to the MPs. Mr. Djokovic is the victim of such a criminal interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Mr. Djokovic remains an MP after the Constitutional Court's decision, but he has been denied all rights and I would therefore like someone to stand up for these constitutional principles. If you are constantly quoting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then let us resolve all the consequences of the Constitutional Court's decisions. Let's put the situation in a state of justice and justice. We didn't do it. So I expect you to read on every occasion the Constitutional Court's decision, no matter what it was about, whether you benefit from it or not. And consistency in supporting candidates, which is the topic of this session of the National Assembly, what your earlier opinions were yesterday, how you voted on the Labour Act yesterday and knowingly participated in supporting and convaluting counterfeits to prevent the criminal responsibility of those who forged the Labour Act, and here you talk about how motivated by the processes against your political party members, all this is about political morality. You're taking part in something that you're publicly disputing here, and you're supporting one forgeries to prevent the prosecution of those who made this forgery.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13189	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic. Replication to Mr. Dacic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, the debate continues in the same direction. I just want to tell you that yesterday, and that's the key reason why I went out for a pay phone, no debate, if you want and talk, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a memorandum on Kosovo and Metohija, proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. I think you have a small number of objections to that act. I heard a very stupid explanation of an off-the-book member of the ruling coalition, who called again on the one who asked you to use your heart to defend that thief, you know, since yesterday, who said, we're not going to support that, because we don't need to decide what it is that we're offering, but to wait for what they're going to do. Let me tell you something: your behaviour yesterday, and almost all political entities on the political stage, in connection with Haradinaj's departure or departure to The Hague, has shown how immature Serbia's political scene is and that we have no plan or programme for Kosovo and Metohija. You're looking forward to something that's gonna be a noose around our necks, because the world's gonna tell us the next day -- here's how they respect all international norms and regulations, and so will international standards, here's your independence. You have no answer to that because you act like little kids in a chocolate school and now you're going to eat with that chocolate for the rest of your life. I want to tell you that the biggest problem that has been made here is the fact that you think you have some smarter than the MPs in the National Assembly to talk about Kosovo and Metohija and the ways in which the situation in Kosovo and Metohija should be solved. You have three geniuses who will sit down and talk about it, and here we are 82, we don't have the brains, not the tenth part, how many of your geniuses will come up with an ideal solution and explain how great it is that Haradinaj is going to The Hague now, that's our victory, because you're going to represent The Hague in a good light, and they're going to use it tomorrow as a reason to give independence to Kosovo. Stop celebrating it in your idiotic media. This is Ristic speaking of a state of emergency here. There's a state of emergency in your media today. Look at today's flash. In today's "Blica", Mr. Ristic, a big title -- "DS: Falsification in the Assembly". That was the first one Tomislav Nikolic said yesterday. He's got 82 MPs, and you're 37, but the SRS doesn't exist, there's DS. There is that we are responsible for Dafina and the Horse, even though the coalition partners of these thieves are responsible. You've explained so well, you just haven't explained how many thieves you are. What kind of emergency are you talking about? The B-92 campaign Tomislav Nikolic against Boris Tadic is on its way. We buy time through the agency, we pay for it, and then they tell us -- you paid for nothing because we're increasing your price now, because we saw you buy big space. What are you talking about? Because you're in a state of emergency today in what's under your control. (President: Time. I am absolutely proud of everything we did during the war, and you will find none to say anything about it. As for the coalition and what is ahead for us in the coming period, I know that there will be a very turbulent political scene here. And everyone knows that, but as a state and as MPs, we have to sit down to make a deal, see what our priority is, both vital national and state interests; to talk, to have a common platform with the President of the Republic, the Government of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament, and not to let everyone do what he thinks and how he thinks. It is a solution for our country, for the citizens of Serbia, and it is not our problem, we will make that additional effort to get another 20-25 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13191	Four and a half minutes, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13192	I was just about to tell Mr. Zankov that he reminded me of Predrag Markovic, when he had his head and chin behind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13193	According to the Rules of Procedure, you overstepped a minute and a half. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13194	Mr. Markovic, you were finished yesterday when you left that forgery to survive and continued to act as if nothing had happened. You finished yesterday, when you didn't want to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. (Glass from the O.R.: Enough more.) Enough of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13195	Please don't win. Mr. Wolfie, please finish, as the time for replica has already been exceeded for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13196	Why don't you tell me what's throwing that bastard out of there?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13197	It's not my place to convey what someone throws away, and don't insult the Messengers of the people. Be kind enough to finish your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13198	I insult him, and he doesn't insult him from there? Are you saying we're rude? You're capable of cursing your mother and saying from where you think, and when you tell him he's a bastard, it's our fault. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13199	Mr. Wolfie, please be kind and finish your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13200	What are you asking me to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13201	What's my duty to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13202	Because you can't stand it, because you're with thieves in the coalition, is that it? Because you can't stand to be told the truth in your eyes, is that it? I'm telling you, you're the ones who keep thieves in power today, but Serbia will soon be free of thieves and honest people will get an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13203	The replica of Mr. Ristic's presentation, reported by Mr. Prorokovic, followed by a replica of Mr. Vukic's exposure, reported by Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13204	I think it was a clear alution to the DSS parliamentary group over everything that was going on, regarding the withdrawal of the mandate to Mr Dragisa Djokovic. I will remind you, Mr Djokovic himself and you as a parliamentary group were able to react three times: at the session of the Administrative Committee, at the assembly session, before the resignation was established at the RIK session. No one has ever responded. The problem with Mr. Djokovic was that he had a strange custom of coming to the Assembly at 10.00 in the morning, raising the daily and then leaving immediately, so he was not here at 10:15, when the Administrative Committee was held, nor at 11:30, when the session of the Serbian Parliament began. Mr Djokovic himself denied his mandate by his request to the Serbian Parliament's Administrative Committee, which demanded that he sign his resignation in the next six months, and that he had lost his mandate by passing to the DSS. Mr Ristic, you are also too good a lawyer to understand that the situation in this case is completely clean and do not use political arguments regarding the case of MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13205	Now, Mr. Bosko Ristic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13206	Mr. Vukic said in his presentation that the state of emergency is still going on in some media and that DS is an inspiration to such a state and media controller. For example, he took just the text that came out for yesterday's vote on counterfeiting in the assembly and about an attempt to cover up the prosecution of those who did so. The difference between your opposition to this act and ours is that we have committed a real act, which is that we have filed a criminal complaint against the President of the Assembly and against the Secretary of Parliament, precisely because they have allowed the Assembly to plead on one forgeries. That's the difference and that's news to the media. Pure verbalism, and essential co-operation, are recognizable in the media. The media recognized that DS was the only true factor in this assembly that cared to determine what happened in the Assembly yesterday. We started it the right way, we asked the authorities to launch an investigation into the falsification in the Assembly and to determine who forged the text of the law. It's news to the media, because only such behaviour, as the DS has done, can lead to certain and legal political consequences. The greatest consequence in this House is that the forged will of MPs and that a law has been passed that has been passed somewhere in the government or somewhere on the way through congregation services. To prevent this, to prevent the constitutional crisis, because we now do not know how the president of the state will react, who has returned the falsification to the Assembly, and has not returned the law to the vote, so that Serbia will not be in doubt, in suspense, we have asked the law enforcement authorities to react as soon as possible and to establish the fact that there are no differences between parliament, as the most legislative authorities, and the powers concentrated in the role of the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13207	Of course, the replica, Mr. Dacic and Mr. Nikolic. Please continue to respect the decisions of the Assembly, not the need for media news, and that your main argument for the speaker is that this is confirmed by the fact that the media is interested. Be kind, let us respect a little institution and what the Assembly voted for, even yesterday. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13208	This isn't a replica, it's a reaction. Obviously, there was a confusion, since from what Mr. Vukic said, it can essentially be concluded that he was speaking to the SPS. I would like to say that there are no discards from the SPS parliamentary group and no SPS MP throws anyone, nor does he do so this time. I also ask all other MPs to come out here for a pay phone or, if they're that sharp, meet me in the hallway. In any case, it was probably Mr. Vukic who misunderstood that he was being thrown out of the SPS ranks, and that's why his tone was like that. By the way, I don't think there's any reason for that tone. As far as we're concerned, we don't do anything secretly, nor do we have any change in our policy every day. It's clear what's been going on here these days. We were just talking about Dafina, the Horse and everything else. I've been trying to remember a little bit since I've never had anything to do with them, who took money from these people, past other citizens. I can't think of anyone who was on that list, and who's now in the SPS leadership. Where are these people, I don't know, but I remember Dragoljub Micunovic, according to Jazda, was taking money from Jezimir Vasiljevic. I remember that Dafina also said that Zoran Djindjic raised his savings without other citizens being able to do so. Whether it's true or not, don't throw it out of my place, but come out and tell me what you want. You can't when someone mentions your man to say, "A shame on you either," and the rest of you can roll in the mud. Every man for Serbia is equally valuable. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades of the Democrats, don't convince yourself here in front of all of us who loves Djindjic more than you do, and within the party, they have killed themselves to throw out all those who inherit the character and work of Zoran Djindjic. Anyway, that's your problem. What do we have to do with that? We didn't even pick him, we didn't kill him. That's your party's problem and this country's problem. Just don't get involved with the SPS. You have a lot of things to do, and in other parties, so don't be too interested in our party. All our deputies are awakened, awake, not sleepers. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, Milosevic and the Socialists obviously bothered them, and they do not mind businessmen who made themselves rich during Milosevic. Bogoljub Karic is a democratic force, according to you. Miodrag Kostic was the director of the Democratic Party. Where are the other businessmen? Please, at least have the same arches. You cannot prefer those who have become rich at the expense of the authorities of those whom you cannot bear so much. Then be correct with everyone. As for the SPS (I interrupt any further controversy), we expressed our views, Zarko Obradovic voiced his views on the issue. We have some objections to some proposals for solutions, and otherwise we agree that there should be no political pressure in the judiciary, the prosecution and other state bodies. Of course, it's not good that those people who changed 95% of the president of the courts when they came to power, those who made unconstitutional decisions during the emergency... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Now you remembered that sometimes you still need to follow the law, as a friend of the Old, who's drunk floats. They remembered late. But it's good to remember him, because some of them were in Kumrovec, unlike me who I've never been there; well, you're really left-handed and I'm glad the Socialist International really figured out who's a real leftist in Serbia, and that's the Democratic Party, of course, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13209	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica of Mr. Ristic's exposure, and then Mr. Ristic, I presume, is a replica of Mr. Dacic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13210	I'm really uncomfortable that I went into the O.R., but where exactly, Mr. Ristic, to mention a point that you should be partly ashamed of. We have launched a debate in the Assembly to preserve the authority of the President of the Republic. That didn't occur to you. You have confidence in the investigative authorities that they'll investigate whether there was a fake or not, and you didn't want cameras and here in front of the people to open that debate. Three of your deputies were not in the session yesterday, were you afraid that we would have a majority. Don't accuse us of doing what we do ideologically, and it happened to happen that we're defending the Democratic Party at that hour. You're more and more convincing me that it's not worth defending you. Clear between yourselves. I expected the president of Serbia to have a constitutional crisis today. Why are you afraid of the constitutional crisis? You're afraid the president of Serbia says he's been falsified, and he won't say that so he doesn't create a constitutional crisis. Find me an opposition who'll guard the government so she doesn't have a crisis. Was there a crisis by falsifying the decision of the National Assembly? Why are you covering it up now? We're in your way; well, if it wasn't for us, you wouldn't have gone public with it. You'd all be undercover, so if the UBPOK guy playing the guitar with Dinkic, he'd be looking into whether it was forgeries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13211	The reply will be given by MP Bosko Ristic after the break, at 2.30 p.m. Thank you and pleasant. [[After break – 15.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. According to official records, 148 MPs attend today's session. I'd like to begin by establishing a quorum for work. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. Using the electronic system, I find there's a quorum to work with. At the end of the afternoon debate, a replica of the People's MP, Bosko Ristic, remained at the presentation of Mr Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13213	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the judiciary, I have been granted the right to replicate Mr Dacic's speech, the MP from the SPS parliamentary group. However, I will not use my time on this basis to answer it, because it is now deplaced after this break you have given me, but I would like to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, where you, Mr. President, have violated the Rules of Procedure, because you called me, you gave me your word, and when I went to the speaker, you then set a break. I think this is the way you really show that you don't treat all MPs the same way, and this is, at least, the tenth time that when I get the right to reply, you give a break. You will probably have some explanation as to why, because you too have to notice that it is a fact, with the fact that I can conclude that my previous discussion regarding the vote on the Labour Act did not correspond to you, where I pointed out that it was a conqualification in order to hide the perpetrators of the counterfeiting act, which is why we, as a party against you and against the Secretary of Parliament, filed a criminal complaint. If that's motive, then it's really not right. The fact is that every time I get the right to a replica, you use the right to set a break, so the replicas are absolutely deplaced, because it doesn't make sense after a long time to talk about something that went through in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13214	Thank you, Mr. Ristic. As you yourself have concluded, I've taken a break from the Rules of Procedure. Of course I don't do that whenever you have a right to a replica, because only during today's work have I given you at least ten times, as you would say, a word based on the right to a replica. I am not making a difference between MPs, and especially my motive is not the fact, as you have concluded, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unanimously decided yesterday on the text of the law. And whoever's talking about some kind of forgery or something simply knocks down the institution of the National Assembly and puts the president of the state in an extremely awkward position. I hope that it will not be a goal for anyone now or in the future, but of course the MPs have the right, because they are protected by immunity, that many inaccuracies excuse from this pay phone and I will always defend their right to do so. The word has been given by MP Blagica Kostic, as representatives of the DS, G17 plus, SRS, DSS, and above all, under Article 89(3), MP Blagica Kostic reported. Let MP Slobodan Vukkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13215	The Serbian Renewal Movement contests the election of Vida Petrovic-Skero to serve as Serbian Supreme Court President for several reasons. The first is the fact that Mrs. Shkero was the candidate who received the least support of the General Session, so the least support of her fellow judges to be elected president of Serbia's Supreme Court. The second reason is that Mrs. Shkero was elected to judge the Supreme Court only two years ago and it is illogical that as the youngest judge, she reaches the office of the president of the court so quickly. The fact is that Mrs. Shkero worked for almost two years in the attorney office of the current minister, Mr. Stojkovic. After all, at a time when Mrs. Shkero was president of the court, an investigation was conducted against the defendants of the crime at the Ibaric magistrateal. Mrs. Shkero directly intervened in the investigation and did not allow the investigation to spread to the most important participants in the execution of the crime, to Milorad Lukovic Legion, Mihalj Kertes, Branko Đuric and Vladan Dinic. With all these facts in mind, the SPS MPs will not vote in favour of its election, as we expect from other fellow MPs. We also dispute the election of Vuk Tufegdzic as judge of the District Court, because of the fact that he conducted a very sloppy investigation into the murder of the topcider guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13216	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic, and let the MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared. Once again, please, if anyone has felt something as unpleasant during a session of such strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, you will receive my personal apology. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that few leaders in our judiciary scared me when they announced that it was necessary in the near future to make even more choices of judges, that we needed to choose many more judges in Serbia, in order for the judiciary to be more effective. Please, the more we have the judge, the more ineffective it is. I have already presented (and others) these examples of some countries in the world, where our people, our judges, went to see. In Canada, in Quebec, which is the same as Serbia by population, the judiciary is based on Roman law, not on some precedent, such as in America or England. So, French Quebec has 430 judges, along with the Supreme Court, and much stronger and more developed economic life. It means that our judiciary, our system has to experience one reform, not increase the number of judges more and more, and the judiciary is more and more creamy and unsatisfactory. Is it possible that we should make new choices, and this way, as we have already presented in the speech that we gave to this assembly yesterday, in this way where the High Council of Justice works, where the familyality, the surface, where there are many judges. And the judiciary is a very serious matter. As someone said about the General Staff that the army is a very serious thing to be given to generals, it is also a very serious matter for the judiciary to be left to judges alone, that they reproduce their power. It's a tragic situation. I think we need to get out of this somehow, and that's the fundamental reform of the judiciary. We've got to get out of the judge's choice. Today's debate that was held here between various parliamentary groups, where it was said -- when this coalition was, then you're... That's actually the point. When there was one coalition then you chose judges, when the other coalition then she chooses her judges. If he was previously a dominant SPS, he chose his judges. It is not normal for anyone who has a simple majority in this assembly to choose judges for Serbian citizens, because the court is a very serious matter and he judges the other half of the people who did not have their own representatives and who could not participate in the elections. That is why I think it is necessary to adopt a principle that exists in Slovenia for some elections. After all, it is a common principle to choose by a two-thirds majority, so that the elections must always be attended by the opposition, because it is a common need for all Serbian citizens to have an independent, impartial, effective and reliable judiciary. The other part of Serbia, which does not have 126 MPs, is interested. The 126 MPs cannot be dictated by judicial life in Serbia. It's too one-sided. I have to tell you that we want... I am talking to most of us, who we are when it comes to European orientation. We'll get that feasibility study, but they're following this way, Europe is monitoring how we act in the judiciary. They insist strongly on judicial reform. If we don't do something important here, we won't do anything. On this occasion, I just want to point out one case that we have in Novi Pazar, which is independent of this topic that I was talking about, which is that one person is marked there by all structures, legal, judicial and prosecutorial, as possible President of the Municipal Court. In such a sensitive environment, the High Council of Justice proposes a man who came from Kosovo, who has no experience, who has been there for a year and a few days, and this leads to a certain revolt that we absolutely do not need politically. For this, the Justice Committee has not shown any understanding. He showed understanding of another move we criticised, which is that someone who came back from Kosovo to Subotica, in one environment he didn't know, was running for head of the district public prosecutor's office, or for the district attorney; someone who didn't know that environment, who didn't graduate from college, someone who didn't know it was a complex international environment. This is a positive example, and for this, the Justice Committee has shown its understanding, but I also think that there must be a lot of understanding for this case in Novi Pazar, because this is one sensitive political area, for which we all bear responsibility, how we set things up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13218	I thank Mr. Vukkovic. The People's Messenger Nikola Novakovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13219	Mr. Chairman, colleagues from the judiciary, ladies of the People's Parliament and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no idea how to talk about the situation in the judiciary, because it's not the subject of our today's summonment. It would be a shame not to open such a discussion as a special item of the agenda of a special session. I want to talk about how certain suggestions don't go through. This seems about, on one occasion from the 24th session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 27 January 2005, like this - a candidate was proposed; is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that the Committee has not accepted the proposal. It is about candidates for the President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad and the President of the City Court in Novi Sad. Both were removed from the agenda by the same system. I don't see what the challenge is. I'm pretty surprised by the way you work. In Novi Sad, all three candidates for the presidents of the courts, both the District and the Municipal and the Commercial. We entered the New Sad in the fifth year of W.D. states in all three courts. Officer of duty, I must remind you, first of all, it's strictly temporary and he's not a law enforcement officer. It's a miracle that the New Sad judiciary is still working. Now that we've received decent suggestions, we simply put them under the carpet, push them aside, so we're not solving anything. We can discuss whether there are any better; there is not, because they have not run. It's safe, he'll run, because being president isn't a permanent function, my God, today he is president, tomorrow he'll do bad or he'll do good, he can be re-elected or he won't be chosen. For all three candidates, in my opinion and in the view of the Vojvodina Bar, there is no reason not to be elected to the seats of the president of such significant courts in Serbia's judicial system. That is why I will suggest, please, when there is a vote on individual cases which have been disputed by the Committee, that in these three cases we vote yes and that finally all three courts in Novi Sad get their presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13220	The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and for discussion, let Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13221	Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary in Serbia has never been independent and I know that I have not discovered hot water now, it is a widely known fact, as it has been widely known that the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary has been the most pronounced since 2000, since the time of DOS rule. I have no doubt that the current government, or Minister Stojkovic, had good intentions with such a large number of candidates for judges, prosecutors and their deputies, however, because of how this procedure took place from the day of the opening of the competition to the day of today, will certainly not have positive results. Again, we come to what the Serbian radicals were at the beginning of the anti, which is the existence and status of the High Council of Justice. Today, Minister Stojkovic said the High Council of Justice is a constitutional category, and we Serbian radicals claimed it was not a constitutional category. Then the minister explained today that the Constitutional Court has made such a decision that the High Council of Justice is a constitutional category. I know the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and respected by the Constitutional Court, but to respect Slobodan Vučetić, no one can force me to do so or convince me to have a basis for such a thing. There was an expression, of course, party membership and, unfortunately, it was mostly present in Serbia's judiciary. Now something much worse has happened in the High Council of Justice, and now it was not just party membership, but personal, private interests. When the candidates for judicial functions were discussed, people who sat in the High Council and who were members of the High Council of Justice said that they had taken out the blankets from small inner pockets, and that the criteria were not taken into account and that is why we have proposals that we have. I think that this time the Justice and Administration Committee was embarrassed to discuss and decide what candidates for judicial functions will support and which they will not. I'll talk about it later. The bidding as it was at the last High Council session really doesn't deserve either respect or recognition. The High Council of Justice has proposed a large number of persons for these judicial functions and from November 26th, when we first received proposals for these high-level functions, from that day to the day never in the history of the Serbian judiciary in the media were represented these proposals, proposed candidates, family ties, such or such. It's simply, from the end of November to today, taken a serious turn of the affair. I don't think that's the way to improve the situation in Serbia's judiciary. The situation is drastic and dramatic, but in this way there is certainly no way to fix it. It is hardly possible to talk about a better situation in the judiciary as long as we do not receive a motion for resolution in this House, for example, Goran Kljajevic, a proposal for the resolution of Judge Danko Lausevic, whose resolution of the initiative has been in place for three years at all the laws provided for, and nothing has happened since that day. And, worst of all, since the cause of the motion for its resolution by the SRS was one first-degree verdict to which the appeal, believe it or not, was filed almost three years ago, the second-degree court has not seen either the case or that appeal. Of course, no one thinks about dispensing such a judge, and that is certainly not good. Mr. Vucic spoke today about Jovan Prijic, the initial story of ten or 15 days ago that Jovan Prijic would be replaced, however, the minister, who first heard such information, later began to reset, and said it was not his jurisdiction, and certainly not. It is Mr. Jankovic's jurisdiction, and I assume he has a reason for continuing his mandate to Mr. Prijic. In addition to what Aleksandar Vucic was saying about Jovan Prijic, I will only add that he is actively involved in the "Mercedes-Benz" international affair, which Serbian radicals have been talking about two years ago, in the wake of the prosecution, courts and the mafia that have indeed taken international character. Now I'm going to say something about the lack of criteria and the High Council of Justice and the Justice and Administration Committee of the Serbian Parliament. We have proposals for judges from some courts in Serbia, where people who are proposed have three, four, five or six years of work experience, but that's why we have people at 10, 12 and over who haven't found themselves in this proposal. We have returned to the Committee, when it comes to Belgrade courts, to the High Council to review this proposal again and to answer concrete questions about what the difference is between someone who has four years of working experience, and now we want to ask him as judge and someone who is 10 years old and has no stain and he can't be a judge. What's the criterion, we didn't get an answer. Instead, we received the same proposals, which were already held at the Committee on Justice and Administration, complemented by one or two proposals per Belgrade courts. I guess the High Council of Justice thought the MPs were foolish, so that they could fool us and say, we added two other proposals. To us, it was neither the goal nor to add anyone to the list, but to have a clean situation so that as MPs, we would know why we were voting or not voting for a candidate. However, the High Council of Justice is trying, and unfortunately succeeds, that it is making its services out of the MPs, and the influence of the DS on the High Council of Justice and today is more than obvious. Back to the last session of the Justice and Administration Committee. There was one, I really don't know if I should call it a tragic or comic situation, but something has never been seen at the session of a congregation committee. The ruling majority did not have enough MPs at the session to vote for proposals, i.e. to pass the proposals of the High Council of Justice. Then there were eight proposals for the First Municipal Court, where the ruling majority MPs had only six votes, and the other six MPs were part of a piece that did not vote for the High Council of Justice's proposal. And, without any reason, eight candidates proposed at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade did not get the agreement of the Justice and Administration Committee. When it came to number nine, another member of the ruling majority entered, and from that moment on, there was a majority to vote on the proposals of the High Council of Justice and then the candidates under number 9, 10 and 11 received a positive opinion from the Committee. It's just amazing. Who is now able to explain to the MPs and candidates for judicial functions why someone who is under regular number 3 did not get a positive opinion, and someone under regular number 10 did, and no one entered for specific reasons, except that there was no quorum up to number 9 that did most. For example, when it came to candidates for the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, something also very incredible happened. The names were read, such was the discussion on the Committee; under number one, and the fact that I'm not reading now, there's no need to talk about those names, because really nothing positive, or negative about these people, I don't know that I could mention them now and that I could maybe put them in an awkward situation. So, who is candidate number one with a name and a last name; the ruling majority of votes to number 3, 4 and when we get to candidate number five, then one colleague, who also from the ruling majority, said -- wait, this doesn't make sense, how we support a candidate who has four years of working experience, and we have candidates who have 10 years of working experience and they can't pass. A car is broken on a candidate under regular number 5 for the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, and I will also not read the name, and that lady does not get a positive opinion from our Justice and Management Committee, as she has suddenly worked out her conscience with her ruling majority colleagues. In the meantime, I look at the material that we have received in addition to these proposals and I see that the lady who has not received the consent of the Justice and Management Committee, which is under regular number 5, has four years of working experience, but therefore the lady under number 1 has received consent and has 2.2 years of working experience. It is simply an incredibly unserious approach to solving such serious problems and we, after such work on the Committee on Justice and Administration, expect to improve our situation in the judiciary. My dear colleagues, we are not close to solving this great problem. Now I'm going to talk a little bit specifically about some of the suggestions. My colleague Aleksandar Vucic said that we from the SRS would vote against the proposal that the fourth municipal court judge Zeljko Scepanovic move to the Belgrade District Court. Everything Alexander Vucic said is absolutely true, but I want to remind you, try to remember, I said about nine months ago after this pay phone that Zeljko Scepanovic received a promise to go to the District Court on the moment of his conviction for Peter Panic and Vojislav Seselj in the case of Nikola Barovic. When I announced it, half my colleagues on this side laughed out loud, I remember it well. My dear colleagues, you see that wasn't funny, that it was true. When Zeljko Scepanovic, Judge of the Fourth Municipal Court, decided at one hearing to give up the hearing of nine witnesses and experts and to strike a verdict, here today the High Council of Justice offers it for the District Court in Belgrade. Zeljko Scepanovic's promise to come to the Belgrade District Court under these conditions gave Vladan Batic himself. Now you see the impact of the former minister on the High Council of Justice. We have a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. We have a proposal from public prosecutors who were military prosecutors and we from the SRS at the Justice and Administration Committee have challenged the proposal for candidate Radosav Milivojevic and Nikola Petkovic. I want this Parliament to know the reasons for our dispute. Colonel Rade Milivojevic, a former military prosecutor in Belgrade, has been proposed, while noting the fact that he was retired as a disabled military-medical commission. This fact was not reported when the application was filed, and when a decision was taken to disband the military judiciary launched a retirement procedure to make a full pension. So the candidate has been silent about one important fact – that he has a solution to disability pension for almost a year. For this reason, we have challenged this proposal and I truly believe that in the day of the vote, you will challenge it, because it is obvious that there is a reason for it. We also disputed the proposal for Lieutenant Colonel Milan Petkovic's candidate, who served as prosecutor at the Third Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. After the October revolution in 2000, to cover up his abuses, which were widely discussed, he was transferred from the post to the military prosecutor's office. Now the High Council of Justice is returning it to us again, and we Serbianly worked against the proposal and I also expect other colleagues to be against the proposal. The political bias of some candidates is more than obvious. In particular, with the candidate for the municipal court judge in Vrnjačka Banja, Gordana Predolac, then the candidate for the Temerin judge, Radmila Popovic. These are judges who show too much political bias to certain parties, specifically the Democratic Party. I am sorry that the minister is not here to ask him, he promised for this speaker a long time ago that through the High Council of Justice he would correct the injustice that Batic had done to judges who had lost their jobs due to strict application of the law. It's about the judges of the law enforcement authority. Unfortunately, it hasn't been fulfilled yet. For the District Court in Smederev, candidates Branislavka Brankovic and Predrag Lukic were proposed. We were on the Committee against these candidates, and we will vote against this parliament in the voting day, and the argument was, among other things, that the Chamber of the District Court in Smederev for a total of three vacancys, according to the previous opinion of the Municipal Court College in Smederev, gave its opinion for three candidates, from the Smederjevo Municipality Court of Smederjevo Snezan Todorovic, Dragoslav Krstajić and Tomislav Bojkovic. For example, for Branislavka Brankovic that after a few years of judicial training, it was one of the candidates proposed by the High Council of Justice who was relieved of that duty, or not re-elected and that she worked for a time as an expert associate. Of course, at that time there must have been a valid reason, for we today have no valid reason to return to the Smedereva District Court. We also know that Brankovic was personally intervened by the president of Smederevo Municipality Jasna Avramovic, who is otherwise a personal friend of Boris Tadic and Bogoljub Karic. I asked Mr. Lazarevic at the VSP, because the information that she had intervened with him, did she call the president of the municipality to intervene, and Mr. Lazarevic said she didn't call, but she was coming, but not for that occasion, but for some other reasons, because of the problems in the Smederev court. So anyway, we're not voting for these proposals and I'm calling on you not to vote. I now wish, dear colleagues, to introduce you to something you certainly deserve, or should deserve the attention of all MPs and all MPs, and this is about the state of justice in the Rasko area, at the City Court in Tutin. We talked today about a problem in New Market. My colleague Milan Vesenovic, who is from Novi Pazar, also spoke and said why we Serbian radicals will support candidate Milan Mladenovic as president of the Municipal Court in Belgrade. We certainly think that this is justified, that both Novi Pazar and Tutin are environments that this parliament and the government should pay more attention to in general. I've been to Tutina in the last month twice, and I think it's more than drastic and tragic. The Human Rights Committee in Tutin sent a letter to the minister of justice. I'm sorry the minister isn't here again, although I asked him on the board what's going on, why he didn't give any answer to this letter. He didn't have an answer then either, he didn't know how to explain it, he said he knew there was a problem, but I don't know why he hasn't done anything yet. I think both the minister and many members of the government should go to Tutin and see how they live there, to see that no Serb can be hired there and what policy is being conducted in that municipality. For the sake of the public, and also for your dear colleagues, I will read a letter from the Human Rights Committee to the Minister of Justice. I expect that at the next session of the Justice and Administration Committee, and listen to colleagues from the High Council of Justice, and I expect that they will also take this into account and that in the near future we will have an adequate solution to the problems in the judiciary in this Serbian municipality. So, the letter reads, "Dear Mr. Minister, this committee speaks to you with firm confidence that you and your Ministry will take all necessary measures and actions to protect the citizens of the Tuttin municipality from abuse of their official position and to ensure that the law is respected by the President of the Municipal Court in Tutin. This committee has received a request from several damaged candidates from the competition, who believe the real reason for their refusal is that they belong to another nation and political orientation. One of the following examples of non-compliance with the law in the process of competition for labour is that documents submitted in accordance with the competition were returned to the candidates not full 24 hours after the end of the competition, and it is known that the legal deadline for returning the same three days after the end of the competition, in case one of the candidates sent his application to the competition by mail. Since in the last three years only Islamic religion workers have been received in that court, we consider this to be just another piece of evidence that clearly tells us that the president of the court has received in a working relationship by national and political key, discriminating members of the other nation and political orientation. In the work of this president, there was also an annulment of competitions that clearly found that only one candidate who met the requirements could be accepted at the job. The reason for refusing entry into employment, according to the President of the Municipal Court in Tutin – because there was no need for that post. We don't understand why the gentleman mentioned it was even calling a contest when he didn't need that worker, that is. Is the reason for the cancellation of the competition is that he did not want to receive an Orthodox confession worker and different political orientations. Since there was a situation to mention the President of the Municipal Court did not advertise, nor did he respond in any way, even when he attended the meetings of the Assembly of the Municipality, when a gentleman publicly called on members of the majority who were present at the mentioned public session to kill all Serbs, because all the Chetniks and to be expelled from the territory of the Tutin municipality, for which there are witnesses in the image of five members of this committee, and also because of the above-mentioned failures, we believe that in Tutin, it is a long time mature situation to finally determine from your ministry an independent commission which is impossible to corrupt, which would examine all these allegations and much more, and which, acting under the laws of this country, would finally sanction the so irresponsible behaviour of individuals in the municipal justice of Tutin. Hoping that, Mr. Minister, you will correctly understand this request, which is also an appeal, we believe that you will take all necessary measures and actions to satisfy the justice and law of the Republic of Serbia and sanction the perpetrators." So, this letter from the Human Rights Committee in the Raška region, in Tutin, is really, at least for us in the Serbian Radical Party, very alarming. We also expect and invite Minister Stojkovic and V.D. The president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Republic Public Prosecutor, all the competent authorities and the Justice and Administration Committee of the Serbian Parliament, to go to the Tutin Municipal Court and to hold our meetings there, to show the citizens of Tutin that Tutin is in the Raski area, in Serbia and that discrimination as mentioned in this letter must no longer happen, and in particular must not be supported by the competent authorities who support it by their inaction. It is truly unacceptable for the minister not to respond to this letter from January 2004 to the day of today. So, fellow MPs, in addition to this appeal, I urge you to vote against the candidates for the judges and prosecutors I have highlighted in my debate here, because this is a way to fix the situation in the judiciary as much as possible, and I call on you, gentlemen of the High Council of Justice, to, in addition to proposing new candidates for these functions, think a little bit and to see when you will begin to propose solutions, of course, to those who deserve it, those who are destroying the Serbian judiciary. You know very well who these are. I got you Danko Lausevic and Goran Kljajevic. I guess that's a generally known fact in Serbia. Until we begin to discuss and take care of the judiciary, we will hardly get into a better situation. I hope you, like us, care that the final state of justice in Serbia is being brought to some normal level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13222	For information, it would not be understood that Minister Stojkovic was unwarranted: Minister Stojkovic went to The Hague this afternoon due to tomorrow's status conference to guarantee the defence of a number of indictees before The Hague tribunal to defend themselves from freedom. It's correct to keep that information in mind. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Velimir Simonovic, then MP Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason I'm involved in this debate is because I've attended the meetings of the Justice and Administration Committee, these last few times, even though I'm not a member of this committee, and I've noticed some things I want to say here. I first noticed that many of the proposals we received from the High Council of Justice did not receive support from the Justice Committee. Here, I have some from a session held on February 11th and March 4th; let's say, 11 candidates for municipal courts in Belgrade have not received support. Prior to that, the Committee decided to return all proposals for judges of municipal courts in Belgrade to the High Council of Justice, so that they could write more extensive comments and suggestions - why these people are proposing. It's one phenomenon that surprised me very much. Now I would draw your attention to something that may seem naive, but I'm actually expressing my view on it. I imagine when someone got to being the Supreme Court judge, or the Constitutional Court judge, so to get the highest court call, what qualities these people must have. And since, in the High Council of Justice, they are mostly judges of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Bar of Lawyers, then, in my understanding, it must first of all be people who are highly professional, who deal with legal science not only professionally, but also scientificly, who write scientific discussions, the comments of the law, textbooks, etc. So that's one of my guesses. The second assumption is that these are people of extremely high morality, that they will really assess objectively what candidates are best and that they will give us such suggestions. In that case, if those two assumptions were met, as an MP who doesn't do much about what's going on in the judiciary, I would very easily press the green key in my seat, because I would have high confidence in the High Council of Justice. If we MPs suspect that these two criteria are not met, it certainly will not work for our judiciary. It won't work. Now I have no doubt in particular about any of the members of the High Council of Justice, but I am talking in principle about how I imagine people who have such high judicial functions. That's all. Although, and the truth of will, it is likely that some of the MPs are doing one wrong thing, which is that they either give or do not give support to some candidates as to whether these candidates are close or not to any political party, which is absolutely unacceptable in my understanding. Who can and should be a judge, there must be no politics and no ties to any parties. Furthermore, I have noted that some previous speakers have mentioned a phenomenon called nepotism. We know that there are families in Serbia, and not only in Serbia, which in several generations had lawyers, engineers, doctors, and that's perfectly normal. Nepotism was also written in the papers, whether it was someone's sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, and so on by someone who was a Supreme Court judge or another court. I wouldn't mind being elected to judge if his father or mother, for example, were a member of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court of Serbia. It would bother me, which is inadmissible, if such a candidate were proposed and there were better candidates, who do not have relatives in high court institutions. There was talk of nepotism and the university, and there were cases at my university that, let's say, the father was a professor, and we chose his son as an assistant, or a daughter, and he started to make a university career; but we tried not to make a mistake and it really was the best candidate in the competition, or we didn't make a mistake by not choosing someone better than the one whose father is at our university. The same goes for the judiciary. I don't mind, I repeat, because it's very important that a young man or a girl will be elected judge even though she has relatives in those institutions, but she must not allow the High Council for Justice to be proposed by someone less qualified just because she has some family ties without being chosen by someone who is better qualified. The arguments I've seen about these elections have really been very tight and then often MPs can't decide whether to support the proposals or not. The arguments we get from the High Justice Council must be more complete. Here, let's say, I have a case here, I don't know a man at all, for the first time I've heard of him, that, for example, Dragan Skoko was proposed to judge the Supreme Court of Serbia and he didn't get any support on our board. Imagine you're running for such a high-ranking judge and he doesn't get the board's support. What's this about? Is he really not mature for that function, and that is fine; or did the High Council of Justice not give a good enough explanation to persuade us MPs to vote for it; or is something third intercede, which is that perhaps some MPs do not like it for some political reasons. Whatever it is, it's not good. But it is also not good that the candidate for such a high office does not go away because perhaps the High Council of Justice has not given a strong enough explanation so that we can press the green key in our seat. Here, these are my general remarks on how we choose judges, or how the High Council of Justice behaves. There was also talk here that maybe we should have a choice of judges to change something. For example, why don't we call these candidates, we want to pick someone for the Supreme Court Judge or the Constitutional Court Judge, for those two most judicial institutions, why don't these candidates come to the meeting of the Justice Committee, so we can sit them down a little bit, talk to them. You know, it's a practice that, for example, you have in the U.S., when a Supreme Court judge is elected, he comes to the congressional committee, and that's where they're well-examining him. I'm going to take a very interesting example -- what happened once when the Supreme Court of America was elected. First, he is asked to submit a detailed biography to the Congress Committee, then the congressmen read it and invite him to talk. When one such candidate arrived there, a congressman asked him, sir, if there was anything in your life that you didn't mention in your biography. He doesn't know what to say, it's a delicate question. Whether to say, or to keep quiet, and eventually decide and say, yes. He says, as a student, at one party, I tried some drugs, the first and last time in my life. He wasn't elected judge. Not because he tried a little drugs once in his life, but because he didn't write it in his biography. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13224	I thank Mr. Simonovic. The word has the People's MP Miodrag Djidic... Excuse me, you have a replica. Mr. Djindjic, for a moment, Mr. Ristic has a replica of Mr. Simonovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13225	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is the basis for a replica is the way in which a part of my statement is presented in relation to the nepotism observed by DSS MPs in connection with the proposal of high-ranking candidates in the judiciary. What's going on? My predecessor spoke in a contradictory way about nepotism. It says -- families in Serbia are well-known who carry knowledge from their knees from a particular area and that it can be positive that certain families make progress in a particular profession. I have nothing against the quality of children of some famous parents, who have shown a very neat career, good success in studies, good success in traineeships in the court or the prosecution, but on the other hand, nepotism is when the gods are proposed, or the future sister-in-law, who have nothing to do with the environment and family that my respected predecessor thinks of. So, I was talking about precisely the unsolicited consequences of the policy's influence on proposing and selecting candidates for the highest judicial functions. During my first address to parliament at this point, I said that I did not want to read specific names, but that it would be recognized in the hall of those I mean, because they know whose godfathers are proposed for progress in the judiciary. I mentioned specifically the minister of justice, because I pointed to his influence on the work of the High Council of Justice, so I also pointed out that I am sorry that he is not present now, that one person whose name I will not mention, who is dating his son, is proposed for a choice for a judicial post. On the other hand, the fact that Mrs Vida Skero was a worker, or member of the lawyer's office of Minister Stojkovic, and was proposed by Minister Stojkovic as Supreme Court President suggests that people close to Minister Stojkovic are very quickly and easily progressing through the Serbian judiciary. One married couple, I was saying this during the last election of judges, also made very quick progress, so that the wife reached the Supreme Court, and the husband to the V.D. The president of one of the courts, and now he's proposed to be the candidate of a district court. The secretary of the court, or secretary of the distinguished gentleman, is also proposed for a choice for the judge. So, a circle of people who are clearly in the area or near Mr Stojkovic has a position to make very easy and fast progress through the judiciary. To be clear and decadent, I do not doubt the quality of these people, however, surely there is another large number of judicial officials who, based on their experience, can, based on their work results, come into a position to be proposed for some high-level functions in the judiciary. But it is this lack of reason, the lack of an explanation offered by the High Council of Justice, above all to the Committee on Justice and the Serbian Parliament, that suggests possible abuses in the elections. I'm not saying they were everywhere. Somewhere I think there was nepotism, somewhere I think there was a note, and there I agree with my predecessor who spoke here, but on the other hand, this particular lack of information can indicate that the system of choice of legal holders with serious shortcomings, which really draws the basis for being a stability in the reform of the Serbian judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13226	Replication to Mr Ristic's presentation, MP Velimir Simonovic. You don't have the right to replicate, you can only do it by the Rules of Procedure. He's got a word for replicating your exposure, and you can only now according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13227	It's the first time I've asked to speak about the Rules of Procedure, because I don't. If I had any power, I would give the president all the authority to lift all the replicas and all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and especially the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that are never justified, but only to come to this place. I want to be perfectly accurate. When I was talking about nepotism, I didn't want to be too engrossed, I meant every kind of nepotism, not only when it comes to children, but also about godfathers, etc. And I made myself perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13228	The word has Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13229	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, the honourable representatives of the judiciary, I will begin to challenge the proposal to elect Vida Petrovic-Skero for the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, for the simple reason that I believe there are much better candidates. That I am right also shows the General Session of the Supreme Court, where, when secretly, who should be the candidate for the Serbian Supreme Court was given the most votes by some other people, not Vida Petrovic-Škero, who was only in third place, with some nine votes ahead of her were Zoran Perovic and Master Janko Lazarevic. We all have our mouths full of the independence of the judiciary, we all want an independent judiciary, we all want the profession to be asked. Here the profession has said one thing, and unfortunately, the High Council of Justice has made a completely different decision, namely a different proposal. I am interested in the criteria which decided to make the proposal Vida Petrovic-Skero. If the criteria are the length of work in the Supreme Court, then the Shkero can't pass because he's only two years old. One of the previous MPs was saying that maybe the criteria were working in someone's lawyer's office. I don't want to believe it's true, but when we add it all together and subtract it, we're going to find out that maybe that's what decided to run for Supreme Court. When we talk about criteria, I would also like to say that in the selection of other candidates for the presidents of the courts and judges, criteria were not clear, or in some cases, one criteria were applied, such as length of study, in other cases the second criterion was applied – the average rating at the university, and in third cases the criteria of length of work in the judiciary might be applied and so on. I mean, it looks like the criteria are consistent with the candidates. So if a candidate was predetermined to be proposed for office, then according to him and the criteria are adapted. That's why you have a large number of complaints from those who participated in this public competition. So most of the people involved express great dissatisfaction with the way judges choose and apply criteria. I would also like to further challenge the candidates for the District Court in the King, above all Ilic Marina. Ilic Marina served as deputy district attorney until February 2003. After that period, she applied four times for the Royal District Court, but never passed. I wonder what's changed, so it's just past now; since one MP throws it to me, I think she just passed because she's a member of his party. That was the criteria why she was proposed to be a candidate for the District Court judge in the King. She had very poor work results, and that's why she's been resolved, which is why she hasn't been chosen. She ran cases of Moravska Banka, Beta Banka. We all know what kind of banks this is. Unfortunately, these items have been delayed, have lasted for years, time has done its part, and those who robbed the Serbian people have not been brought to an end to justice. I also dispute Ilija Zindovic, a candidate for the District Court in the King's office, because in his case there are much better proposals, and it seems that the criteria here were something other than the expertise and years spent in the judiciary. When I talk about justice, I just want to say that now it's been a year since the new government and in short lines to sum up what's been done in the judiciary. I don't think anything's been done. The situation in the Serbian judiciary is not worse, but it is not much better than it was. Simply put, the situation in the Serbian judiciary is, as my predecessor said, very bad. I want us all to work together to fix the situation in the Serbian judiciary, to make it much better, so that people in Serbia can come to justice in a much faster and more effective way than this is now the case. You have countless examples that can be stated in practice, that some disputes, especially in litigation, last 10 years and more, and that people find it difficult to come to justice. Unfortunately, there are cases where they never come to justice. I'd just like to say one more thing about the status of legal employees. Yesterday, there was a protest of judicial employees, which I absolutely support. I support it for the reason that the state of Serbia rests on three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial authorities; the legislative and executive authority has increased its salaries, so that now the minister (unfortunately, he is not here) has over 120,000 salaries, his deputy has over 90,000 dinars, the assistant minister has over 70,000, and those responsible for the judiciary, for the case in the judiciary, have half the salary. I don't think that's right, that it's not normal and that Serbia's judges must be adequately rewarded for their work, and only then can we expect both real and better results.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13230	I thank you, Mr. Giddyup, I just hope you've got the exact numbers out, because as far as I'm concerned, they're not exactly exact figures. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and then a National MP, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that this is about the greatest choice of judicial officials in the history of the Serbian judiciary. What is characteristic is that this choice has been followed from the beginning to the end by a lot of problems: from the very opening of the competition, through the proposal to several sessions of the High Council of Justice, through never more complaints, open letters, petitions, until the debate at several sessions of the Justice and Administration Committee, to this debate today. Also, a year's work has been completed and it's time to sum up the results, to see what was done by what was promised, what remained an empty promise. There seems to be a lot more of this second category. It should be said that the material situation of judicial employees is extremely bad, despite the numerous promises we received from the government at the beginning, in the elections itself, and from Minister Stojkovic on several occasions. Salaries are low and expectations that when you passed the law in the field of justice in your employees, you raised yourself to the sky for good work have been failed. It should be recalled how many promises there were when amendments to the Law on Court Taxes were made on the agenda. We warned then that since the drastic improvement in the material position of employees there was nothing and we came into a situation that today, after months, no one mentions it anymore, because now it's clear that we were 100% right. As far as the choice of judges, i.e. holders of judicial functions is concerned, the SRS has made its position and opposition to such a way of choosing judges in this area, in particular the Law on the High Council of Justice. It is clear that the fundamentally declared goal, or independence of the Serbian judiciary, has certainly not been achieved. Lobbing and moving connections so someone would be proposed, elected, certainly never again. The pressure from various sides and centers of power was enormous. The courts stopped working, because all the attention was on who would be elected to the prosecutions, who in courts instead of solving cases, and we all know that very well. The lobbying never happened again. In this way, the right to propose is in relation to an earlier solution that was only transferred to the High Council of Justice, or to a smaller group of people, which has not been provided with any service either. I'm sure after the last few months, where they must have been exposed to a lot of pressure, they're wondering what they needed. On the other hand, the depersonalisation of the proposings was also carried out, as earlier on, it was known who was proposing who and who was behind whose proposal was behind it. At that time, the proposal had a certain responsibility, not only for the work and personality of anyone who had been proposed in the previous period, but primarily for what these people were expected to do in the future. In this way, when the Proposer is the High Council of Justice, i.e. the collective body, virtually no one is responsible for those who are proposed, nor for those who are not proposed. It should also be said that communication between this Parliament, and the above all of the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration and the High Council of Justice was bad, was virtually not there. In the case of representatives of the Republic Assembly of Prof. Zoran Tomic, there was no such communication; there were some announcements that he would attend the Committee's session. This raises the question of whose views he represented there because he has not heard any arguments or any of the views of any representative, or MPs in the National Assembly, or from the opposition, or from the authorities. That, by chance, represents a mini coup, because this representative of ours certainly isn't ours, he's long gone; what he was doing, who he voted for, we really don't know. It should also be said that the additional arguments we have asked for the proposed Belgrade courts from the High Council of Justice have not been received, which is certainly inadmissible. Such a relationship between the High Council of Justice and the legislative authority in this assembly is unacceptable, although the Committee's position was not to the end in principle, because the additional arguments were required only for proposed in the Belgrade courts, and we, under the law, had to have sufficient reasons for the other candidates on the basis of which the criteria were proposed. As far as the criteria applied during the elections are concerned, it is clear, in my opinion, that there is only one thing that cannot be drawn from any criterion based on which a list of proposed candidates could be justified. There were different suggestions. Some candidates have been proposed with only two years of work experience after a legal trial, others are not even after 12; some who have studied for ten years have been proposed, and the bypassed ones who completed law school after only four or five years, within a deadline. Candidates with a low average score during their studies were proposed, and even some with an average score of 9.90 were challenged. All this says that there was a lot of arbitraryness and irregularities in the process of proposing. I'm not going to say it by name, because the attitude that we had in the SRS had toward everyone, it was a principled attitude, but the best example for that was the First Municipal Court, where for 11 seats for future judges there were about 200 candidates reported. The most specific was the candidacy of a lady, otherwise the judges of the District Court, who, for some reason, applied for Judge of the First Municipal Court. As far as her work experience was concerned, she was a judicial intern, was elected judge of the municipal court, for ten years she served as judge of the municipal court, so she was president of the municipal court; she was elected judge of the district court and worked for years as judge of the district court. There was simply no place for her on this proposal for a municipal court judge, which is the lower step. Then it is very difficult to explain, in particular in principle, that in relation to someone who has reached a certain degree of expertise – not only was the judge of the municipal court, but also the president, and then the judge of the district court, who abolished the decisions of first-degree judges and worked in the second degree – someone else could have had the advantage of these candidates who were never judges, who had two or three years of employment. The question of why it was so could not be answered by the minister, but the consequences of such treatment in the judiciary will be felt. I do not believe that after this election, there will be much improvement in the urgency and quality of work in the municipal, county and Supreme Court. It is certainly true that the consequences will also be felt through the abandonment of the judiciary from a large number of quality candidates who have not been chosen at this time, because you cannot expect for 14 or 15,000 someone to work for seven, eight years and now that he is again uncertain whether he will be elected for five or 10 years to continue to do that very small salary for a job that is neither valued nor paid. Because of all this, the SRS parliamentary group will not plead on the proposed candidates, except in several cases where we challenge certain candidates, because we are sure that they do not deserve to be elected to those positions they are proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13232	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13233	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of our judiciary, I think there should be something to say here today about the very system of government that exists in Serbia. Of course, we will all agree that there is a system in Serbia that involves the independence of the government from one another, so legislative, executive and judicial authority. Formally, that's the way it is. In 1990, we crossed from a system called the democratic system of unity of government, which certainly wasn't democratic, nor the system of unity of government, if it could be democratic at all, into a system of power-sharing, and declared it by the 1990 Constitution at the time. But essentially, the question arises whether something has changed seriously in these 15 years. It has changed, certainly better, of course, since October 5th mostly, but we have essentially a twisted system of division of power. In all these 15 years, we have essentially achieved a system of unity of government, through one person, as it was until 2000, through party summits, or party leaders, or party oligarchy, as it has been since 5 October, and how much this may have been a fact during the DOS government. I think during this government, it's a fact that's qualified to be so, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is the inability and absence of Parliament's desire to oppose it, and I think we have a lot of arguments for that. At the very least, and what happened yesterday is an argument that goes in favor of it. But if we are not dealing with day-to-day issues, we are looking at it as of October 5th, and for that period there is no need to prove it, we can prove it in the following way: if we simply look at who the leaders of the political majority in this parliament are; try to put these authorities in relation to their party authorities, which are always mostly in the executive government, and it is simple in Serbia and, unfortunately, we still can't get away from it. As a result, some guarantees of the government's independence from the executive power, where all the authorities in Serbia are mostly concentrated, are necessary. We, unfortunately, do not have them, and not just according to constitutional solutions, above all, any constitutional solutions, our political practice finds a way to change them. I think it was important to mention this today, because I think this choice of legal holders and this whole process that we've had for the last month or two days has been paradigmal and indicative of this in advance. It is paradygmatic that during the election process, especially at the meetings of the Justice and Administration Committee, one sad and humiliating relationship between Parliament and the minister of justice, or an unnatural supremacy, which the Government, in particular through the role of the minister of justice, has in relation to our judiciary. However, what we could hear at the Justice and Administration Committee session says that no minor influence of the justice minister is on the High Council of Justice either. If, on the day of the vote, this election of judicial officials passes, and it is likely to pass, because there is a political majority in this House, I believe that a very large party influence will be achieved on our judiciary. And then the relationship of the ruling majority (this time it is called DSS, and tomorrow it can be called different), and the real authorities and the judiciary will be even more images and opportunities of this thesis that there is no division of power in Serbia and that there is the supremacy of one government over the other. It seems to me that this big story, which we often hear about institution building, is just being constantly denied by promoters of these same stories. I believe Minister Stojkovic wants, like his predecessors, and all of us, a better situation in our judiciary, but it is also the fact that our judiciary is constantly recording worse and worse results. We can always say that today's justice situation is worse than it was yesterday, yesterday than it was the day before yesterday, the day before it was a year ago, two or three. It seems to me that somehow this desire, which exists during the election campaign and when it comes to power, has been reduced after a year by the authorities or something a little bit more to mere staffing. In practice it looks like this: vote for us for this, we'll get you for that, give me this from one friend, this one just studied, let's let him pass; and that's the truth that we all know on the Justice Committee, but I can bet it's a lot worse when these suggestions come from the High Council of Justice. So this government and Minister Stojkovic did not answer the question of how to redecorate the judiciary. Since October 5th, each of us has made a contribution to make it better, there are elements that support everyone's desire to do something better. The overall general flow of things regarding our judiciary has simply failed to change. After all, neither today's government nor Minister Stojkovic succeeded, and this could be some assessment of the government and Minister Stojkovic's actions on our judiciary. As for this election process today, i.e. the election process which lasts for the last two months, for the holders of judicial functions, I believe that no choice has caused this much controversy, controversy and reaction, both in the professional public, among the legal holders themselves and in the public at all. The remarks are very serious, very reasoned and very extensive. The whole process and the legitimacy of those who will be elected is in some way questioned. I think that this procedure, too, is the behaviour of the High Council of Justice, unfortunately the Committee on Justice, these parliamentary majority and Minister Stojkovic, who have shown all the weakness of our legal solutions on how to choose the holders of judicial functions, but also showed the government's weakness to abuse such legal solutions. Of course, in order not to cause controversy, it does not only apply to this government, it generally refers to political elites in Serbia, that they simply have the pain of taking advantage of what they should not, to having a greater influence than they belong to under the Constitution and the law. We of the DS, taught by what has been happening so far, have already proposed for this speaker certain changes and that there was a wish we could all adopt these changes together. We believe that the solutions that need to be considered are that the judiciary only chooses its highest office holders, meaning that the judiciary chooses the highest judicial functions by general elections within itself. We think that this will truly bring about a reform of the judicial system and determine the independence of that judiciary. I'm going to move on to a part of what was the public reaction, first of all to this professional, primarily in the judiciary, among the people who are most personally interested in this choice. I believe that their voice should be heard in parliament, and from one part, perhaps from a tenth of the memo, I will read a few sentences. So, one of these appeals that arrived at the address of the Justice Committee is this and, among other things, it says: "Even though we meet all the formal and other conditions concerning professional and moral qualities, as well as the years of internships carried out in the prosecution's work, among us there are those with as many as 7 and 11 years of internships and we have been unsuccessfully competing for the deputy prosecutor's post, each time convinced that the experience and expertise gained by long-term work in the prosecution will finally begin to be valued. Besides, isn't that what some members of the Council advocate in public? Apparently only in public. On the conspiracies of the decision of the High Council that we are not even talking, given that we have not been given an explanation for any of their proposals so that we know for the future what else we should fulfil as a condition of choice, if the opinion of the direct public prosecutor is already positive, as well as the years of work carried out in the prosecutor's office is not sufficient." Furthermore, in one other comment, the Board of Justice's appeal: "The election did not take into account criteria such as the average rating at the university, the length of study, the assessment of the work so far and the work experience, or the training in the judiciary, and therefore it was unclear to which the criteria were conducted by the High Council of Justice. Moreover, even candidates who do not meet the required conditions for the election are proposed, such as a legally prescribed internship in legal affairs. What falls into the eyes is that half of the proposed candidates are the children of the former presidents of the courts and judges, which in the light of the composition of the High Council of Justice, which are mostly judges, is an unremembered nepotism." Of course, there are also many people who simply join the protest and public advertising of those who have already expressed their disdain in this way of choice; I will not show, simply because of those names, there is no need, they all got it. So this is where people join the protest over a non-principled proposal of municipal court candidates by the High Council of Justice. Then, in another open letter, it is said, among other things: "We are not clear which criteria have been applied, or which criteria we have not met in relation to the proposed candidates". The second open letter states: "We point out that there are absolutely no clear criteria for the management of members of the High Council of Justice when making up a list of candidates who propose a very responsible and honorable judicial function. Not only do we meet all the formal conditions for performing the judge's office, but we are in the judiciary employed from 5 to 10 years, we have independent reports for the last 3 - 8 years working on conscience and expertise, and we have never been members of any political party." Furthermore, in another appeal, in another letter of dissatisfaction, it is said: "As we are not among the proposed candidates, and we believe that the criteria for selecting those candidates are not respected, expertise and dignity, we assume that you are able to obtain the data that the proposed candidates have met, since we cannot find the same criteria for the proposed candidates. "As this group of judicial assistants address the Justice Committee, I must say on my own behalf that I am not clear on these criteria either. Among other things, all these memos are very well explained. This lists exactly the years of the internship, so I'll tell you that these are judicial assistants with 9, 9, 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 7, 7, 7, 7, and so on. A year's work experience. In the end, they conclude their letter: "How much longer do we wait, what else do we need to find ourselves on the list of proposed candidates? "Furthermore, from another court the same remark, or letter to the MPs: "We address you with this letter, dissatisfied and humiliated by the knowledge of the proposed candidates for the selection of judges in the Republic of Serbia by the High Council of Justice. Just when we thought that a professional body was finally formed, which will respect the opinion of the College of the Court of Justice, from which the candidates come and who, by conscience and impartially, will decide on the proposed candidates, we have learned that the High Council of Justice has been managed by non-prosecution and other unknown criteria, and has proposed candidates who neither by quality nor by experience deserve to be elected judges." There are signatures, and there are persons who have been working in the judiciary for even 10 years. As you can see, most of the objections that we from the Democratic Party have also referred to on the Committee on Justice, which is a matter of criteria. The question is, what are these people going to do, what are they going to wait for in the judiciary? Nine years working in the judiciary, and they can't be elected judges, and at the same time they see those colleagues who may have been close to a political party or relatives, family and some other relationships coming into the situation that after only two years of internships have been elected as holders of judicial functions. What keeps these people in the judiciary and if they do, what quality will they do after this election? What did this look like in information? We have a few papers here, but I'm going to read what's very important to me. The president of the Association of Judges of Serbia, Mr. Omer Hadjiomerovic, says, "The High Council of Justice should ensure the absence of political influences in selecting judges and selecting the highest quality candidates." I'm asking the question here - was that so? Also, Mr. Hadziomerovic says, "Where there is uncertainty, there is doubt." I think that in these elections there are too many ambiguities and too many doubts, and therefore this parliament could change its mind still, or the ruling majority, and react. The Public Prosecutor of the Third Municipal Court says, "I wonder which criteria are handled by the High Council of Justice when he proposes to the former judge for violations and does not select an expert associate with years of experience in the District Attorney's Office." It is a person who has been a criminal judge for more than 10 years, and now has to come and work as a deputy public prosecutor in the Third District Attorney's Office, and that in this series of those who have applied for a deputy public prosecutor in the Third Prosecutor's Office, who worked for 5, 6 and more years in the same prosecution as professional associates, for whom the public prosecutor is otherwise personally responsible, did not receive consent, or support from the High Council of Justice. So these are the writings. Among other things, the president of the judiciary's trade union has characterised the High Council of Justice as a politburo of the Serbian judiciary due to such circumstances. I haven't heard the denials of this, I've been reading from the papers, but that's just what's been filling the newspaper columns in the last two months. I will tell you that, among other things, letters of the municipal committees of certain parties in power have appeared in the National Assembly. Among other things, one of these letters says – the municipal board and that party is forced to address you with a request to review the work of the public prosecutor's office. It's, at the very least, scandalous. So much for these quotes. What is indisputable, on the basis of this, we see that this choice for high-level judicial officials seriously compromised the High Council of Justice and seriously questioned the position of the judiciary in relation to the Serbian government. I think all of this is best seen through the proposal that the president of Serbia's Supreme Court be Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero. We of the Democratic Party, of course, have nothing against Mrs. Shkero personally. Let me remind you, we elected her Judge of the Supreme Court two years ago because we thought she met moral and professional qualities to be the Supreme Court judge. However, we certainly did not believe that only after two years, Mrs. Skero would be proposed to the president of the Serbian Supreme Court. Mrs. Shkero had the smallest number of votes in the Supreme Court General session. She received the least support from her colleagues to serve as Serbian Supreme Court President. Mr. Perovic and Mr. Lazarevic received 25 or 20 votes from their colleagues to perform this function. Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero has the shortest internship of all these candidates in the Supreme Court, only two years. Mrs. Shkero, it must be public knowledge and remember, yet she had a public engagement, which was politically colored. It is not a secret, it is known in the judiciary, it is known both in political parties and in the political public, that she is a supporter, not a member, but a supporter of the DSS and a close associate of Minister Stojkovic. What it looked like at the Council of Justice's session, and that's what the public needs to know. Vidu Petrovic-Skero has just been proposed by the minister. So, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia has proposed a minister. None of the esteemed members of the High Council of Justice found himself proposing to Mrs. Shkero, but had to do so by the minister. The vote came after a change in the Rules of Procedure, the same part, and that change of the Rules of Procedure had to be proposed by the minister. None of the distinguished judges, apparently, were so aware of the bad Rules of Procedure, but had to come to the High Council of Justice, to change the Rules of Procedure, to then propose to Vida Škero and then honorary members of the High Council of Justice forget who had the highest support of the college, who had the highest internship, forget all the criteria and vote for Vida Petrovic-Skero. We say - the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the people in the High Council of Justice; I fear that there is nothing now. Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero would not pass on the Justice Committee, not the ruling majority provided a majority on the Justice Committee, but unfortunately, the SRS has supported it, as it has so far, somewhat. Mr Krasic, my esteemed colleague, who has been dumping here for 20-25 minutes, the whole time I'm talking, he went out at the moment, he cut down that quorum, and Mrs. Shkero passed by 8:7. I believe she won't mind being chosen this way. This election will pass, so far elections have passed, the situation in the judiciary is bad, the human policy in the judiciary is bad, but it is obviously not something strange for us and Serbia. We should not be surprised and dissatisfied with the state we live in, the land we live in, the incomes we have, etc. It's just that sometimes we have to be a little bit and self-critical and say, yes, that's the power we've chosen, that's the state we live in. When an individual waits seven or ten years for a verdict, I don't think he has much right to complain. That's it. It's Serbia we create ourselves. In the end, I'm just going to read one sentence from the final document of the Bathing School of Natural Rights. It is the introductory word of Academyman Slobodan Perovic, who does not refer directly to anyone here, which applies to all of us, which is: "In view of this, anyone who is playing with the independence of the judiciary, let him know what he is doing and makes an attack on the foundations of the rule of law. If the sanctions don't hit him today, he'll be hit by a historical one, and it can be harder than the current one."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13234	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica. Before you get the word, let the board members know that the session will be held today at 1800 hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13235	Milan Markovic is a man of his word, as we agreed, he did; he mentioned that the public would hear the truth about what happened on the Justice Committee. The board began, I think, at 10.00 hours, I had a duty at 12:00, but by 12:00 a.m., the Committee didn't begin to discuss the agenda point at all. Mr. Milan Markovic and some other members of the DS Committee performed a very interesting, likable obstruction, which is very dear to me, because we had the opportunity to make comparisons before October 5th, after October 5th and how it is today. Of course, from October 5th to today, today is a much worse situation than anyone can imagine. However, Mr. Markovic has made several false statements. The first untruth he made is that he tried to explain the name and last name of any of the candidates, Minister Stojkovic, at the request of all the members of the Committee, what it was about. As I understand it, a secret vote has been put in place because some members of the High Council of Justice and candidates, so that they can come out, that at a time when votes about them are not there. But Mr. Markovic forgot to explain, and he explained it nicely to us on the board, how Vida Petrovic-Skero kicked him out of the office. It's that rematchism that's happening here. Mr. Milan Markovic now says – yes, we returned it two years ago. That's not true. In 2001, the first illegal decision to be taken in this National Assembly, which is the decision to depose some judges, also returned Vida Petrovic-Škero to the District Court and elected President of the District Court. But she got out of control; because she supported the protests of people who were employed in courts and demonstrated with them, to move her from the position of the District Court president, because there are some cases to be completed, she was transferred to the Supreme Court. When I think about it now, I see that in 2001 the Democratic Party did not mind that she was in Zoran Stojkovic's lawyer's office, but today it bothers her. You know, you from the original DOS sit in one place, so make a nice deal about how and what you're going to do, so tell us what you think is a democratic standard, whether the democratic standard is contained in 80 kilos of meat and looks and its will and its will, or in some principle and in some rule. Now, we just spent two hours in that session talking about what was and what was right about what was, which should be applied today. But later on, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13236	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13237	The Rules of Procedure, Article 100, have been injured. Very often, counterpart Krasic, when he comes out just to hurt that 100, hurts the dignity of this National Assembly, bringing lies. I tried to make my point, and I had no intention of mentioning or insulting anyone, nor did I think I made any mistake when I said everything that was going on at the Council of Justice session. You've brought out a direct lie here, and we've talked about it a few times, and I told you I don't know where you got that idea from. So, Mrs. Vidu Petrovic-Skero, I respect you very much, we communicate very normally. I don't know where her office is, I've never been to her, I have no reason to go to her. I can even say that about some of the things we've discussed we've always had an extremely high degree of consent. I've never had a bad word, not one awkward situation with Mrs. Shkero. So, extremely good and correct relationships. That's what I talked to you about once, and I asked you where you got that idea and what you were talking about, and you didn't want to tell me. Now I'm saying again that I really don't know what this is about and why you're talking about, when it has nothing to do with what we're discussing today. I say again, we at DS have made an effort to point to certain arguments and data that this way of selecting the holders of judicial functions is not good. And you, Mr. Krasic, understand your discussion as your party's profile is, and that's your right, but I would ask you to hold back a little bit longer than what is false, because there's no need for us to go out here for a pay phone and tell each other the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13238	I'm sorry, I have to give Mr. Krasic a replica first, and then Dusan Prophetic, the same replica. (He speaks to Ambassador Ristic. ) Just a moment, Mr. Krasic, Bosko Ristic is looking for a replica before, but... He wants to rephrase your exposure. What about you in the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) But he has an advantage if he asks for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13239	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13240	But he has an advantage if he's looking into the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13241	You see, that someone waits two hours for someone to have mercy with questions and questions and unblock the Committee's work - I will not allow it, especially if I have an appointment. I am, of course, out, not to keep company in obstruction and one empty discussion that leads nothing. It simply leads to something happening to the quorum, since it was obviously intended to disable the debate. I'm not going into that choice. After all, we didn't vote in favour or against the Committee; I think we only voted twice against some elections, or we were abstention or we didn't vote at all. But, you see, now it turns out that it was crucial for someone to pass, which is not true at all. In the part where I'm supposed to go out and talk, I'm going to tell you a story about how the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution are breaking the most infrequently on this issue of selecting the holders of judicial functions. But what is really amazing is that it is absolutely inconsistencies: at one point it is taken as a crown criterion as to how many people have supported appropriate candidates to the College of a court, and in the other case it is not relevant; in one case it is taken into account the average and the work experience, in the other case no role is played either by the average or the working internship. In one situation, it seems to me, because of some empty vote on the Committee, which is completely unnecessary and counter-business, that we have in the report that the Committee has challenged eight candidates, eight proposals from the High Council of Justice, and in fact the dispute has come about for the simple reason that the MPs who were there did not want to vote. And there was a complete senselessness of the whole process of selecting the holders of judicial functions, that its quality and ability to be on the agenda of this session depended on the quorum chief and some side-by-side things that had nothing to do with the judiciary. I don't want any part of it. I will always leave the session where such arguments will be discussed rather than arguments. If that's the case, I'll only let you know that we've already had two choices of legal holders. At the time, the situation on the Committee was not as it was a few days ago, in view of this election. We don't want any part of this. We don't want to. We do not want to participate in the games of those who have made innovations in the judiciary, those who have appealed to voluntary lustration, those for whom the highest degree of democracy was for the government to elect prosecutors, deputy prosecutors. We're not involved in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13242	Wait, Mr. Ristic, the advantage is Dusan Prorokovic, because he has a replica of the presentation of MP Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13243	Thank you. I thought I'd give up in the meantime, but since some of the findings from this pay phone have been mentioned six or seven times today, I can't help but react. First, if the existing system of choice of judicial officials is bad, let's go back to the old solutions. Let's go back to solutions from the time of the Democratic opposition to Serbia, or let's ask the people of the judiciary whether their independence and autonomy is higher now, or whether it was during governmental Batic's ministry. I think it's now and we'll all agree. This autonomy, of course, needs to be increased, their growing and greater independence compared to the other two branches of government. Of course, in the coming iterations, in the coming years, it should be made possible as much as possible, but this government has managed to make a certain shift in this sphere in a year. And when it comes to the party state, from that convention of the Democratic Party in Pioneer, it has been said for a long time by means of public information, here we are now from the assembly pay phone, so let's see if this ruling majority has had its candidate for president of the Football Federation of Serbia? And did any previous ruling majority have a candidate for that position? Yes, it is. Has this ruling majority had its candidate as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Well, it's not. And did the previous ruling majority have their candidate as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Yes, it is. Well, then who's politicizing society in this country? This ruling majority certainly doesn't. That's why she's headed for the depoliticalization of our society. That is why this ruling majority deals with matters that, according to the Constitution and the law, are within its jurisdiction. It does not deal with Serbia's Football Federation, it does not deal with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, the Olympic Committee, or anything else that is not within its jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13244	Just a moment, Mr. Ristic, here's to the Rules of Procedure again, I'm really sorry, but it has an advantage. Here, I'll give it to you, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13245	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is true that the ruling majority is not engaged in business, sports, science, or art. That's right. I couldn't agree more. But the ruling majority loves the instruments of force. When a coalition is formed, the prime minister said – give me the instruments of power; G17, take the instruments of finance. Here, look, ask every citizen in Serbia, if you ask him how the power is divided he will tell you - the DSS holds the instruments of force, and the G17 Plus party holds the Ministry of Finance and Financial Flows. If that's not true, you can go outside the congregation and ask random passersby and you'll get an answer to that question, it's clear to everyone. It is our party's remarks that the government, through the election of the Serbian Supreme Court, wants to round up all these instruments of force in its hands, to play a dominant role. I explained earlier -- the president of Serbia's Supreme Court gives consent to listening to state enemies, however they were placed in the BIA, where he is the director of the same party, where he is the DSS interior minister, where he is the justice minister from the DSS. So that's the intensity, that's the intention. We're trying to expose a mechanism that can lead to abuse. And in the previous presentation, I said - I do not point to concrete abuses, but I point to the possibility that this mechanism can lead to abuse. When it came to nepotism, Mr Krasic said -- you didn't mind Vida Skero being in the office of Minister Stojkovic at the time you chose her. Well, then Mr. Stojkovic wasn't the minister. It's a elemental fact. Therefore, DS MPs and I indicated that just the people close to Mr Stojkovic have the opportunity and the position to move forward. I mentioned some names. I mentioned specific cases. If that's not true, let him deny us. But I also use this announcement to ask again the question to the representatives of the judiciary who attend the session today, about the question I asked Mr. Minister and he didn't answer me - did the Rules of Procedure change at the sitting itself? Was there a vote in the way we pointed out and was the candidate who received the least of the votes at the General Session proposed on his part to the president? Is it true who called the ad, contrary to the law, that the holders of judicial functions for the military department of prosecutors and courts in Serbia are elected? Is that on the Ministry's orders or has the High Council of Justice done it autonomously? 'Cause if the minister did, he's got political responsibility. If the High Council of Justice did so on its own, then they bear responsibility, and I expect the representatives to say so. As I expect the answer to all the other questions I asked during the debate, which I did not get an answer from Mr. Minister. I also pointed out to nepotism, that the girl who is dating the minister's son is now being proposed, that some of the godfathers of the ruling coalitions are proposed. That's not what I got the answer to. I don't want to read any specific names because I want to point out the appearance, but if anyone comes forward and replicates, I'm going to give the specific names that this applies to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13246	Here you go, Ambassador Christin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13247	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to advertise today for the first time, although it has been done many times, a violation of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure – that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. If we were to discuss all the issues that were discussed, we could go somewhere in the distance and see if we could talk about the choice of legal holders here. So we were talking about force, power, nepotism, interns, lawyer associates, and no one mentioned the worksheet of any judge or candidate now elected here. Let's mention someone's work, and we'll see that there are 43% of those who have passed through, who can't pass, because every other verdict doesn't go through in the second degree, and they should be judges of the county court and decide on the legality of the decision. On the other hand, we see that we do not pass before our judicial committee of extraordinary judges. For example, municipal court President Juliana Budincevic in Novi Sad, who was proposed to judge the District Court, has not passed the Committee. Indeed, the MPs here were right to say that there were no objections and that it was voted by no one. Also, Novi Sad will not win, if we stay with the proposal of the Judiciary Committee, neither the President of the Trade Court, nor the President of the District Court, although it is people who have received the undivided trust of the collective. I don't see why we're not here discussing specific personalities, their work results, but we've all clouded some of these current issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13248	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13249	Again, I have to thank the members of the DS Justice Committee for not denying anything, but just confirming that the Radicals on the Committee were right. And on the board, I asked you... Legally and constitutionally, according to you, it was to change the law because of Sonja Brkic and the republican public prosecutor. It was legal, according to you, and now that something these guys are doing, you say -- it's a disaster, there's no speech, it can't possibly, it's not legal. I asked you for an hour and a half – say what is legality and what is a democratic standard for you. You couldn't answer, you were fighting in general obstruction, and you expected me to be the silent observer you were persecuting. I don't want to be a part of it, or watch it. If I have an appointment, I'm going to that meeting. I'm just using that as an example to remind you, because you caused the replica by saying that when I got out of the O.R., apparently, it happened that some of them had passed. Which one did they go through? Well, those who don't suit you. So your will is a democratic standard. Not the law, not the regulations, not the candidates, but your will. So I asked you a question -- if it was all legal in your time, how could a pensioner be the President of the District Court in Nis? How could that happen? Who cheered and dressed at the time, who changed the same candidate five times? Five minutes before the start of the session, Zoran Zivkovic, frightened of this, Batic gets angry about the change, the Committee delays, changes, it was all democratic. Who then had predominance, what politics, what political party? Whoever usurped the judiciary, who destroyed the judiciary, who drove those people out of the judiciary who know they're suing and doing the job, then took their children, the secretaries of the cooperatives, interns to some lawyers, and didn't order a wealth of ideas from where anyone could come from to be a judge overnight. That's what happened with the D.A.'s office. Do I need to remind you that you've changed the law that the government is choosing deputy public prosecutors? That was legal. The best, the highlight of democracy. The problem at that session is what a democratic standard is and what a relationship to constitutionality and legality is. Of course, you turn it around, you don't choose the means. If someone else does what you did, it's a disaster. You're the only one who has the exclusive right to do that and since you're DS, everything you do is democratic. Well, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13250	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13251	Since the debate is already going through with this, I would be free to suggest that tonight we make a decision on the extension of work until the end of this point today and the vote on the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13252	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Eight of the 129 MPs did not vote for 121. I find that the proposal has been adopted. We have an extension. We are going in line to the Rules of Procedure, but before you came forward, MP Dusan Prorokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13253	A short replica, because I'm misread. I was saying something about the depolitical process of our society and I was talking about that neither the government nor the opposition should interfere in the elections, election mechanisms in some institutions that had nothing to do with power, whether it was the sports alliance or the Chamber of Commerce, but it was obviously in vain to speak to the representatives of that party who had their candidate even for the election of a new patriarch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13254	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13255	You know what, I've noticed that whenever anyone dares to put some criticism on the work of the ruling majority or DSS, something in particular that's today's topic, which is the agenda point, you're responding to a series of accusations concerning the time of our government. That, in the end, doesn't make much sense, because we're talking to you and you're the government now, we're the opposition, we passed our ruling bill when it was an election campaign. The citizens said what they had on it. The second thing is, why are you ignoring the fact that we've been in the coalition for a long time, when Mr. President of the Chamber of Commerce, I forgot his name, but you and I know him well, because he was an MP, and you and I were MPs; at the time he was running for President of the Chamber of Commerce, Vesenovic, we were the same coalition, you were together in the government, we were all together. Secondly, the choice itself is in that Chamber of Commerce, it's the elections, you know it yourself, they have a congregation and they vote. I'm just saying what it was. The other thing I have to say is, two-thirds of my polemics on the Justice Committee, and they're mostly with counterpart Krasic, and I appreciate him very much. But you, Mr. Crassic, were quite a bit of a talk earlier about what it was like when we were in power. I completely disagree with you that this is how the position of the National Assembly and the Justice and Administration Committee was humiliated at the time. It was quite different, I was a member of the Justice and Administration Committee. We were then getting materials that could be measured in dozens of pounds. We really had a lot of reasons why someone was proposed, and someone wasn't proposed for a judge. As you remember, it was a truly huge coalition. You believe, within that coalition, self-criticalness and democracy were expressed and that there was more need to explain within that coalition than it is now. The problem is that now one party particularism, which is not only seen in the portfolio's division, is now dominated, is being conducted in depth in all areas. That's how it is with the judiciary. As you have seen, representatives of other parties participating in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not interfere with the Justice and Administration Committee, nor will they interfere with the choice of judicial holders. It's the DSS monopoly. When this government was formed and the Ministry Law was passed, I had a remark and I considered it a major mistake of the ruling coalition to allow the division of power in Serbia, practically by party verticals. I think it's a mistake that's now being proved true. What Bosko Ristic said, which is a division – for G17 Plus finances; the Ministry of Strength (Mr. Ristic said by the Ministry of Forces, not in a pesorative sense, but in a jargon they belong to the DSS, within that and the judiciary. So today we're talking about this choice for judges, we're talking about a lack of criteria, an election process, and there's no need to mention the election of a president of the Football Union or anything else from the time of 2001 and 2002. When someone points to the present mistake, it is not the point that he defends his mistake and uses a previous error as an argument. It's not logically correct, and it's neither principled nor correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13256	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13257	I would ask you to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. There is a folk saying that prevents sheep and goats from fighting. Indeed, I do not trust you who are in power now, or those who were before them, to advocate for an independent judiciary, because you did not provide the judiciary with a budget that the Supreme Court of Serbia would have. I am convinced that there are on this list, which some today will vote for, some against, mostly the personnel agreed with by the ruling coalition. I am convinced that no candidate will pass today who was not the ruling coalition. This continues from year to year, from mandate to term, except our ability to justice is getting weaker, there are fewer people you can rely on. When I hear you criticizing these new ones today, let me remind you that Sonja Brkic has become V.D. in two years from the judge of the municipal court. The president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and to remind you that the DS official in Novi Sad, I think the vice-president of the DS District Committee, has been elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. Don't talk about judicial independence. You were further destroying her. It was funny when you came to power all together and in 2001 you once chose someone as judge and president. That's why I'm asking you to release the judiciary of your disciplines. It doesn't matter if it's our judge or theirs. It is important whether the judge judges you by law and whether each citizen has equal protection before the court. And at a time when DS harald, burning and burning the judiciary, only you left the weakest, I don't know what kind of link Vladan Batic was to you, so you left him to the judiciary, there were so many materials, elections, resolutions, appointments, we worked in extraordinary sessions to choose the personnel that suit you. You had a holy idea – to drive Milosevic's temper away. These now have a sacred idea – drive away the yellow frame. Some new ones won't force anyone's chamber. The new ones will choose the honest and safe in the judiciary. I repeat, as long as you don't dare give the Assembly her budget, give the judiciary his budget, I won't believe that you want to separate the branches of the government, I won't believe that you care about the Assembly being independent. The Minister of Finance is in charge of you again today. I won't believe you want to release the justice system. That's it. We're in on this. We'll vote on our consciences and information that we have from the field about who, but don't forget, from choice to choice, you have less and less reason to choose anyone. Many honest, honest, capable, professional one, the other, the third, the fourth power has driven out for reasons they don't have her book. We choose much worse today, we have a much worse choice than the ones they chose a year or two ago. In two years, there may be an even worse choice, all because you've got justice, which is why you choose people according to political beliefs. Get out of it, get out of it. I was against having the High Justice Council. You wanted the High Council of Justice, you were in power when a law was passed on the High Council of Justice. Don't transfer anything else to the High Council of Justice. Please refrain from accusing each other of the same mistakes. You're exactly the same here. (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) ) And, when the Justice Committee is in session so far, it has been a practice to make combinations, to meet the wishes to make decisions; you have now gone to the point that you do not care about the Justice Committee. Today, judges who have not passed the Justice Committee can be elected. In the Supreme Court, someone not judges of the Supreme Court can be elected. You're in a very awkward situation. Try to get rid of it so every judge has to be in your party. He'll mess up the judge you're ordering, and then he'll be punished by those who don't look through party glasses, but completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13258	Replica, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13259	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the judiciary, was called here by the DS to influence the judiciary during her time in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is correct, and every MP in this House should act in an influence in the way the Constitution and the law provides. MPs representing the will of citizens should take care of what the judiciary will look like, how these judges will judge, above all by applying the law and how justice should be hand in hand, that trials are shorter and that citizens have the opportunity to exercise their rights as soon as possible by law. I couldn't agree more. I can agree with my predecessor that there is no independent judiciary until an independent court budget is secured, which will be decided in an agreement between the three branches of the government. It should also be the Serbian Parliament, should have its own independent budget. From this pay phone, I can say that the DS will support any initiative to amend the Law on Courts and to recognise Serbia's judiciary that it can have its independent budget. As an MP and as a man who deals with the legal profession, I supported amendments to the judicial laws relating to the composition and way of elections of the High Council of Justice, I proposed amendments and at the time the DS was in the government, I proposed amendments to the law that then Minister Batic proposed regarding the High Council; 16 amendments I had then, 16 amendments, and now that this set of judicial laws was adopted. I suggested that the High Judicial Council be elected in direct and secret elections between judges and prosecutors, as that would only allow legitimacy and create independent judicial authority. I have proposed and now I propose an independent court budget that would be charged independently on the basis of the collection of court fees, but partially touched by the republican state budget. I totally agree with that. I also agree that the marginalized work of the Committee on Justice in the National Assembly, that the majority of the assembly is indifferent to the decisions of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, are not respected and I believe that this committee is marginalised. The work of the Legislative Committee was also marginalized, and we saw it yesterday when we voted on the Labour Law. The law was not forwarded to the Legislative Committee, although it was the responsibility of the president of the Assembly. It was an obligation to establish the authenticity of the text, which the Assembly here stated. It is true that the committees are marginalized. We should all do everything together to get the committees a place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It would avoid coming out of parliament's meetings with proposals which are unfounded, which have not been discussed or which have received a negative assessment of the committees responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13260	The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the tripartite division of power, the judiciary is indeed a very important place. We often say it's a base of legislative and executive authority, but I'd say a kind of upgrade. The image and opportunity of the state and society is a judiciary and should be taken into account at any moment and at all times and this should be a starting point. We have heard a lot from the SRS MPs about irregularities in the very way and the procedure in the selection of public prosecutors and judges, as bearers of judicial functions. I'd say there's a very serious problem here that disqualifies a number of college-educated people and people who passed judicial exams. I'll explain that briefly. In fact, when we talk about the holders of judicial functions, there are three groups of candidates, so I can sort them out. These are: candidates who compete, and until the competition they worked in the judicial bodies, and that's the first group. The second group comes from a line of lawyers, and the third group comes from all other areas that are not in the area of law enforcement or the judiciary. This last group is kind of discredited and they do not have enough arguments before the High Council of Justice, nor are they adequately taken into account. On the other hand, those in the area of the judiciary are favored quite a bit, and perhaps according to their criteria and values they do not deserve to be on the list of judges for the election. As far as lawyers are concerned, it is a general phenomenon that very few of my colleagues decide to compete and become judges. We must pay attention to this circumstance and ask ourselves, put our finger on the head, which is why it is so and what is happening to the Serbian judiciary. I must say, with full respect for the High Council of Justice and the individuals sitting in that High Council of Justice, who are working, to steal certain mistakes that can't be accidental, but I think there's a discrepancy in the analysis. I fully agree with my colleague, Krstin, who mentioned earlier that we did not pay enough attention here to individual criteria and that we did not take care of individuals. I don't want to talk about names and last names, but I'd like to point out only one table that we got, and that table is talking about data, standard, up-to-date, quality of work of candidates who are otherwise proposed. I turned it around by accident, but I've been going over everything else before, and I have to tell you that it's a table relating to the run for the county court judge. For example, in 2001, the one who passed the High Council of Justice resolved a total of 78 cases. When it's divided by 12 months a year, it turns out that this judge as a judge of the municipal court solved 6.5 cases a month. I don't know what kind of objects it was, what kind of structure it was, all I can see is that they're criminal objects because they carry the "K" sign forward, but it's really worrying. After that, in 2002, the same candidate solved 68 cases and reduced it to almost 6.25. In this year 2002, when the judge averaged only 6 cases, slightly more than 6 cases, 40% of his decisions were confirmed, and 60% were abolished, or changed. This is beyond any criteria, and indeed, if the district court judge is to meet these criteria, then everyone in Serbia can be the judge of the district court. I am absolutely against these criteria and this kind of choice of judges. I share the opinion of my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group – this must not go away and these members of the High Council of Justice must pay attention, as the MPs of the SRS pay attention and point to this by the Justice Committee itself. Although I'm not a member of this committee, I've been following how this high body of our congregation works. I really must agree with my predecessors who said there was one problem in the work of this committee. There is no communication between the representatives of the Committee, who is at the same time a member of the High Council of Justice, which is in coordination with the High Council of Justice. Without that coordination and without that connection there is absolutely no good choice of judges. I believe that this High Council of Justice should have one constant in its work, that the longer and the more it works, the better the choice of judges will be. I fully support the idea that the High Council of Justice should have a conversation with the candidates, but I also support another idea – that the High Council of Justice should be attached to the environment in which these judges, i.e. those holders of judicial functions, work, especially when it comes to the choice of district courts and the Supreme Court. I don't know if any members of the High Council of Justice listened to one of the judges of the first degree court to properly assess how he judges, how he performs evidence, and how he makes decisions. This directness in the work of the High Council of Justice is necessary in these situations. Only in this way will we improve the quality in the work of the court and the quality in the work of the prosecution. I know there may not be enough time, enough resources, but this is a painful question. If that were the case, we would never have had this table, I guarantee you, showing up here, because maybe one of them is reading, but the other one is going over it very easily. I mean, first of all, the ruling part of Parliament. When it comes to all this that I'm talking about, I have to remind myself that in some earlier times the choice of legal holders was in the exclusive jurisdiction of the municipalities' congregations, at a local level, they were wondering who could be the bearer of a judicial function, and who couldn't. It has been shown in time that it has hatched and that such a criterion is bad. Then it went to another system, a system that is now valid, that judges and holders of judicial functions are elected here in parliament, which is good, that there is a High Council of Justice that in some way sees expertise, training and all the other criteria, but that locality, which is really important for each holder of judicial functions, is lagging behind. That's what I found out when we made the choice of certain prosecutors last year. We have come into a situation to end the vote to make certain political settlements within the ruling coalition. We must not play with human fates, especially we must not play with the fates of those who have already stepped into the waters of the judiciary, who build their authority on what they do in the judiciary. I think that some constitutional changes should address this problem and that the local community should, however, be involved in giving a certain opinion on individual candidates. So we would eliminate certain political elements that have been insulted here and that have been mentioned here and kind of accentuated here. I think we should still take a little bit more account from another aspect, because here's what's happening to us: after all day's work, we're tired and exhausted, we're supposed to vote tonight; we're sure to have a mistake, and that mistake may concern one of the holders of judicial functions, one of the honest and honest people, not to be elected to office. That's why we were supposed to spend the night and join the vote in a rested and sober manner. We're taking one wrong step at a time. In the file I've been reviewing, I see that there are demands, some opinions and reports of the 2003 College of Judges. So, individuals have been waiting for tonight's election since 2003, and most of them have been since 2004. We have given ourselves the right, that is, the ruling majority in this House, to vote tonight tired and late at night. It's not that urgent. We approach these things easily and play a little. I don't want to be involved in all this, but I will respect the will of the majority and what the SRS parliamentary group decides. The second thing, very striking -- it's about the criteria for the last three years, as if the judiciary has existed since 2001, as if no one has worked here before. I would like these judges who are 30 years of employment to give their quality and quantity of work in the past 15 or 20 years. It is the only way we can fully see what kind of people they are and what the values are or what they did not have the quality. What's more, sometimes he just shows up in 2003. Gentlemen, on the basis of this and the strictest criteria, we cannot decide, or we can decide by some procedure, but we may fall into far greater mistakes and much greater difficulties than we would otherwise be if the data were complete. I'd like to keep myself on a few more things that concern specifically my environment, procedure and method of selecting the holders of judicial functions. I come from Požega, where, otherwise, there is an opinion that we have an extremely good judge and prosecutorial staff, that this staff works in all the prosecutions and in all the courts, starts from the Uzic District Attorney's Office, the Uzic District Court, to the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. In a specific case, only the deputy public prosecutor is elected in Pozega, and it has been extended, the cases accumulate. The interest in my environment is that this problem should be solved as quickly as possible in a quality and specific way. However, the methodology for setting up, the proposal is not the most adequate. The Prosecutor's Office in Požega serves three municipalities: Požeg, Kosjerić and Arilje. No one was found from these three municipalities, but a candidate from the municipality of Uzica was found. The question arises whether this methodology, whether this logic is correct, correct and adequate. Namely, what's this about? The prosecutor can't be a good prosecutor if he doesn't know the situation in the city he lives in, works, or in the municipality where he lives and works. How will the fourth municipality know what is being done in the municipality of Arilla, what is being done in the municipality of Kosjerić? Family relationships must be known, you must know everything. The D.A. isn't just in time from 7:00 to 3:00 p.m., he's a prosecutor after that. How is he going to find out about a public conversation that is once the first and initial chapel for its launch, if it's not there, if it's sitting in a vehicle and leaving that municipality? That candidate, if he passes, I want all the best, as president of the municipality, but I don't think in this procedure this is adequately done. So I think we have to ask ourselves what, how and in what way. We must not cram judges for a year and a few days and keep them as performers and their families in an unspeakable situation. She suffers business, suffers and objects, but suffers their families as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13262	The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we had the pleasure of seeing and welcoming the students of law school. This is the second time that law school students in this term come to the gallery to see what MPs do, how they make a tool that they will do the next day. Did they have the pleasure of seeing how these laws were passed the question is, that's what they should ask, but it's my pleasure because over the past years I've had a chance to see worse so-called. The People's Resistance movement, though, they drowned in the "yellow party". I expected to see Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo and other NGOs standing upstairs because they are already at the door of the Democratic Party, the "yellow company". However, I haven't seen Micunovic up there, but he drowned, the GSS, so the Democratic Party of Staff is getting rich in this way. Let's get back to the subject. The judiciary is still in huge trouble today. There are three, approximately, problems facing the judiciary today: a lack of personnel, and I mean quality personnel. There's a lot of work to be done and there's still work to be done, because a lot of lawsuits are about to begin, and especially when this coalition comes down from power, crime and other affairs will only be revealed. However, the frames are filled in in a bit of a strange way. We got a bunch of suggestions, there's all sorts of things, there's also a secretary of agricultural cooperatives, secretaries of schools, legal interns who wanted to go into the judiciary this way. The judiciary has one practice it has been fostering for a long time, but at this point, the crown of that practice seems to be a little neglected. The judiciary receives trainees, whether court or trainees of prosecutors, educates them through traineeship, people become expert associates and then in that same or in some neighbouring court instead of them who know the trade (and both the prosecution and the judiciary are craftsmen, as well as medicine and everything else) deploy people from some other branches, from some other actions, and they remain still for several years to wait for a job. I think the judiciary is going to have to solve this problem in an appropriate way, to school its underage and continue to deploy it. The other problem is financial trouble. Like the whole country, as well as the economy, like all segments in this country, so does the judiciary of Cuba with financial problems. We will solve financial problems altogether for the state when Dinkic is removed and his keys are taken from the state register and when he is arrested for all crime, starts with that stocking on his head and entering the People's Bank with the Kalashnikovs, and on top of that, for destroying domestic banks, for destroying Serbia's financial system, etc. There's plenty of that. What Mr. Vukic said, when he said how many ten years of slavery he needed to get, I was about to see Mladjan Dinkic, the current finance minister, on some long-standing prison. Under our law, he can't be more than 40 years old. The third problem facing the judiciary is the legacy of the previous period. The period from 2000 to 2000 is more or less clear, all judges and all prosecutors from that period are in some way removed from the judiciary. But the legacy from 2000 until the election of this government is so much so that this government will not be able to cope, however hard it is, thanks to Minister Batic, who did a good deed, which is that he put the monument to Emperor Dusan, as a writer of the first Serbian law. However, the monument, if it could, would blush from what Vladan Batic did while he was the minister of justice. Vladan Batic has won all the disputes he lost as a lawyer in 18 years of legal standing in two years while he was a minister. How did he choose the staff? First of all, they had to be DOS, and primarily DHSS, or his party. We on the other side of Sava had the misfortune that Vladan Batic from his office would personally bring Ante Boskovic to the president of the court. Normally, as soon as Vladan Batic left, Ante Boskovic also left. Now ask the judges and V.D. The president of the Fourth District Court in Zemun how many problems these two men in the judiciary have made. So Vladan Batic managed to abuse the entire judiciary. He moaned here that he was unable to impose a death sentence at Sabrela's time to kill political opponents. Then he could probably rule for a while. But don't, gentlemen, from this short DOS, it seems to me, if it made him feel better, many heads would be removed from your camp. At Sabre's time, we spoke yesterday, 12,000 people were arrested, arrested without the right to an attorney. A lot of people I know have had an accident to get these Sabres hooked up. She hooked me up, too, but then we'll talk about it when it's over with the criminal charges, which I hired 72 people in a company where I was headmaster and I was in custody for two and a half months. When all this is over, then the state and I will try our best, and I will take the opportunity to hand over the DA's office's file of six criminal charges against the director who came after me to business space with a total 27 million dinar thief's number. That's how much harder the director left than he came. So, I'm under arrest for a long list of employees. I hope this is the judiciary of this director and everyone else who behaves like this will be arrested for long fingers. Let's go back to justice. The military prosecutor's office has now been suspended and translated into civil prosecutor's office. You'll have problems here, because military cases are more or less specific and I assume you'll overcome them by transferring people to the civil prosecutor's office from this military sector. The military prosecutor's office was abolished, above all, so that Perisic would not be tried for that spy affair at the Saric motel. Perisic went to The Hague yesterday, counting on him to get away with that evil he did here. Last night we watched what they were accusing him of; he counted that it would only be Zadar, however, there is Srebrenica now, there is Sarajevo. I can tell him he was much better off staying here, doing 10 years. It is unfortunate that he will probably now settle with them and be a protected witness, testify as Biljana Plavsic testified, but that is already his problem. I assume that this criminal report announced by the DS, due to yesterday's flagrant violation of fundamental rights and the falsified will of the MPs, will be processed. Another question: The Supreme Court proposes a man who is 35 years old. By esteeming and respecting the knowledge he has gained in college, the experience he has gained in the past 13 years, from the university, I still think it's a small age of life to come to such a function, because in countries where democracy is the sacred letter of the Supreme Court of Justice, it becomes at 65-66 years old. In the end, another commendation, if you can say so, for the judiciary. I read in these suggestions that the status of two people in the judiciary of the former SRJ, people who participated in the resolution of Rack, Klecka, was finally resolved. I can't remember the name of the judge, who is now in Kragujevac, and the prosecutor. I think they deserve to be taken care of by this state long before. But it doesn't seem to have been possible or impossible so far. I'm just saying, those people had to be taken care of long ago. I'd like to give Mr. Krasic some more time, which is the last speaker, and we're limited in time, so I'll thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13264	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13265	At first, I would say because of the stenogram, the record, my colleagues who spoke before me forgot to say the names of these candidates. Mr. Stevovic thought of the candidate as deputy municipal public prosecutor in Požega, from Sevojna is a man, I don't know what the name was, and Mr. Markovic thought of Slobodan Markovic, a candidate for the Supreme Court. Here, for this other one, it's a little bit known that it's not for no reason listed. At the end of last year, a citizen of Prokuplja had this situation that some persons had come, made a copy of the judge's verdict, which has not yet been signed, kidnapped that man. The case exists in the District Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, a slow one since 1992. The Danube Insurance needs a few dozen million euros to pay. Direct employers are some Petrovic brothers and others, but you discuss it. However, this man is probably an accomplice, and he probably needs to fill that place in that council of Supreme Court, because he exists there (and you don't know from the judiciary, this is how we know, when we get into court right away, there's an empty spot in one of these councils that needs for some interested group to finish the job. It is now, practically, this formal part so the Assembly can work. Now, let me draw attention to what we practically slave for when it comes to this part of the agenda. Let me remind you - in 2001, there was a dispute in that original DOS, and as a result of trade - we will vote in favour of the Labour Act if you accept our concept of judicial reform, it happened that the law was passed, among other things, on judges. There is a first-time promotion of the High Council of Justice, a great personal council. It was the same story as to depolitize the judiciary, that the parties had no influence, that there was no policy, that the profession came to terms, that the judges chose themselves, so a colorful composition was given to ensure impartiality, objectivity, and that the best came for the judge's place. Everyone forgot it was completely unconstitutional. It is in direct contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but, of course, Mr Vučetic and the company... You know, it's also the party composition of our Constitutional Court, corresponding to the composition of DOS from the time they came back, and there's again an unconstitutional category -- the judges of the Constitutional Court are not judges in the classical sense, and they should not be subject to the principle of continuity, but should always have their mandate limited to some period, whether it's seven or nine years not important, because they are not performing a classical judicial function, but they are doing an assessment of the constitutionality of the rules. But, it doesn't matter, it can all be a mess in democracy, and as a consequence, we have, after voluntary lustration and intense innovation on the subject of an independent judiciary, breaking into party books, winning courts, throwing people out. I think it's still going on slow, 146 deputies, which is what the district attorneys are doing, because after a few changes to the prosecutor's law, they've come into a situation that, without any paper, they're just told -- from tomorrow on, you're not an employee of the D.A.'s office. And, as a highlight, the beauty of democracy came from the "Sabbe" in which we also got Nada Brkic. Leprechaun Karamarkovic called on an MP from here to resign. She couldn't wait, just to get rid of her, to go away. So went Sinisa Simic, so went Rade Terzic, all the DOS feathers. That's how democracy got into a big crisis. She's become demention and destruction. As the day went by, democracy was wearing off and being denied, so they began to look a little like Vuk Draskovic, as he had only 15 minutes of what he said. That's how it happened with our democracy. And now we're considering how to choose judges and prosecutors, and we forget that we actually have 13 points of the agenda, 13 different proposals for the decisions that have been delivered, within this agenda point. Because of the obvious instability of the Law on Judges, we now have a situation that this unconstitution has gone one step further, because our Rules of Procedure has not been changed. Let me remind you of what it says in this most democratic Rules of Procedure, written by Mr. Martian. For our topic is an interesting member of Section 49, where he says – the Committee for Justice and Administration proposes the choice of judges. It's a direct conflict with the Justice Act. Direct. It can't be bigger. In support of the empire of lawlessness and cohesion is also a member of 175. I can also read to you what is the position where the selection process for judicial officials is explained, and it says: "The reasoned proposals for the election of the president of the courts, judges, the republican public prosecutor and other officials in the area of the judiciary and administration, along with the notice and the other candidates who are not proposed to the National Assembly, are submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration. "So, the Justice and Administration Committee is today according to this Rules of Procedure, and you know, this Rules of Procedure is in the ranks of the law, it's an act that prescribes how we do here. What's the way to the law, to the decision, to the regulations. It stands inconsistencies and as a result of this discrepancy, so that I do not explain it much now, we have a member of our 135th Rules of Procedure, which must be taken into account by the president of the National Assembly. The article says: "The competent committees and governments, if not the legislator, in their reports, or opinions, may propose to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the draft law in principle. "It applies to everyone else. So, in this report that we're getting on every decision proposal, it's supposed to stand -- it's accepted, it's not accepted. However, if you look at the report, it says here - the Committee did not support it. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking about not seeing the board's jurisdiction. The Committee has that elemental authority, which exists as well as when any act goes towards the Assembly, that before the Assembly has to reach a committee, that it determines whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether it is in some obvious opposite of the law, that the Assembly here would not vote on something without having any verification of whether certain conditions have been met. But, no, our committee took a stand, so hold the debate, so the vote, so it's said -- he didn't support it, so it's said -- so many votes were not supported, so much for, so much against, so much this, so much, so much so, and then in the record -- whoever challenged it. We here at the National Assembly's meeting, in particular, will vote on the list that is with the president, where the Committee did not support, and that turns out that the Committee has disputed the choice. But the board doesn't have that authority. Only the MP can challenge the choice of any candidate proposed by the High Council of Justice. Of course, I have no intention of changing practice, I just want to point out the obvious unconstitutional and illegality, and if anyone thinks that based on something that is unconstitutional and illegal we can do the right thing, he's mistaken. It can't be right. The next stage of malfunctioning and illegality is inconsistencies in applying the criteria. Here, let's say, to point out that we have a situation where in our courts there are judicial assistants with an internship in a court of two, four, eight, ten and even 11 years. By definition, the judge's assistant is preparing for the judge and helping him. If someone's been a judge for 10 years and hasn't been elected judge yet, then something's wrong. It's not right with those who suggest and choose, or it's not right with that judge. If he's wrong with the judge's assistant, he has to leave the court after five or six years, because he's not a candidate, he's not a perspective for the judiciary. But that's not the problem. The problem is that at DOS time there were – you judicial assistants in the Soviets, and give the children of lawyers, children of professors, children of party colleagues, and so the pensioner became the president of the court, so some like Ante Boskovic, so Sonja Brkic came, so Djordje Ostojić came, so that I don't order. Because if we go from court to court there will be a ridiculous Olympics, and anyone who wants to be interested in the state of justice is enough to just go to court, go to two or three offices and ask people and get complete information: this is bigger for this much, this is bigger for this reason, this releases, this releases. If you're in Nis with lawyer Kiric, you'll be released, they'll be carried out properly, etc. Now, are these people you're suggesting that we put them out here to fix the situation in the judiciary? I can't. Why can't I? For one simple reason: when I saw one of these judges a few days ago, the president of the district court, and I saw on the list that he was a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, I immediately got a clear picture that everything proposed must be bad. This man does not meet the basic requirements of being found in court, to enter court, but he cheers and dresses. Before any session of your Justice Board in the Supreme Court, they all made a nice circle, arranged - you to me in Jagodina, I to you in Paracino, you to me this, me this, etc. And this is how you saw that when you kicked out of the Assembly of Proposition and gave it to an independent body, allegedly an independent body, a drop of justice in the Supreme Court, etc. You've got another irregularity. Maybe worse. There are indications that even the mafia has an impact on the choice of judges. Now here we hear from some creators, or lovers of this kind of choice of judges, that the National Assembly has chosen one of its representatives. First, it's not true, it's not our representative, but the National Assembly under that law is bound to have a member of the High Council of Justice there do. He's being called here now because he doesn't give reports. And he shouldn't report it. How independent would he be if now, to whoever chose him there, he proposed, delegated, submitted a report? Who does he represent there? It is here that he should represent us, and who we are – six parties with different interests. Here you see how contradictory it is, even pointless. If you want something new, go back to that old law, so when you change the Constitution and when the High Council of Justice is in the appropriate member of the Constitution with that name written down, then you do this, if, of course, you get most of it. You see for yourself, there's nothing good can come of unconstitutionalness and illegality. Unconstitutional and illegality, this inconsistencies, too. Now DS calls DSS – for what; for what the DS has done. You voted yesterday, now they're pretending, they don't know about Bodrum, or Thessalonica, and now you're there to fifti-fifti, either. There's talk of criteria, so now it's said here, be careful, the criteria are the average rating of studies. We'll take two examples. A candidate with an average of 9.90 and something didn't go through on the board. Why? There was one smart one to say – I will not vote for principled reasons, all who have two years of working experience cannot be judges. He's probably wrong that this guy had a higher average than he did in college. When the President of the Supreme Court announced what kind of candidate it was, of course, neither laughing nor crying. So the big deal depends not on the profession, but on the criteria, but on the chief MPs. Whether the MP came to the congregation by bus or by car, that depends. If that's even so crazy, I have to tell you that on the Justice Committee an MP from one party votes against a candidate for a judge who's from his party. You've made a funny choice situation. Then we say, "What's going on in our justice system?" There are system failures, where the system is destroyed. When the system is broken, nothing can be new. Anything that goes wrong, you know, has to grow wrong. No corrections. It's said -- the internship as a criterion, or a rating, so someone said -- you know what, he has a small average, and he has a candidate for a district court judge. Someone just said - they need to take their work experience, 15 years old. It may take 30 years, but the law says the last three years. So the law is the problem. Bad law can't make anything good. From this pay phone, both Prime Minister and Minister Zoran Stojkovic pledged to correct all injustices against those made in the "Sabbe" action, and these are people from the judiciary. Almost any deputy public prosecutor who's been removed for a change of law has not been returned to work, and I guess there's a priority, there's already trained staff, people with five, six, seven, eight years' work experience in the prosecution; they haven't been given priority, but they've been given priority to those who have been to someone's office, etc. I've got to distract you, and we've become a regular phenomenon that criminal cases are getting old in court. What do we do? To seek damages from the state, or to seek resolution, or to initiate criminal proceedings, I guess that's the most obvious example of a judge breaking the law. In the Municipal Court of Nis you have 40 such cases for the past year. The judge didn't do anything, the President of the Court didn't do anything, so I'm not talking about these others on official duty, etc. What's going on, you know it best. You still have a situation to sow the illusion of how it's going to be, we just don't know when, and in the meantime I'm telling you that you have several thousand objections, submissions, demands that some judges be dismissed. How can you think about a judge in the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade that you now have to choose, that he will now be such a moral, professional judge, and Danko Lausevic is still there in that court, no one wants to catch that case for his resolution. Here, start with every bankruptcy. The first and main problem of bankruptcy in Belgrade is the president of the Trade Court, who writes epic songs to lawmakers. He's guarded by the G17 plus, he's dominated there by that big personal council and he won't let a man get rid of it at all. Why? Well, Sartid has passed, and the Belgrade Bank and four billion dollars from Cyprus, and for that you will especially answer to the encrypted ones. You run one action to make good, quality choices, but at the same time take action to get these non-qualitys kicked out of the courts. No, we have a situation that no one in the D.A.'s office will catch the case for resolution. Why? Well, you know, colleagues, you know, this, you know, you know, what to do with cases we run against some prosecutors. Branko Stankovic, the one from the Second Municipality, is under investigation, has abused the official position. He asked to remove the immunity of an MP who gave up immunity. Tendeciful, deliberate, malicious to destroy man's integrity. What do we do when they're here now? He's been chasing a man for a time when he wasn't even a minister. How can he sit in the D.A.'s office? To whom do you say, put him as an example of the bad guy, so keep him in the D.A.'s office. Then show it elsewhere, and say, "This is not how it should be." Get it out of court. Throw out if you think anything can be solved and normal with us. A very wrong thesis was heard here: in Subotica, he came from Kosovo and Metohija (yet says - Kosovo), so he cannot be chosen. And who says you can't choose? Why can't you choose? What's a Subotic? Exterior area? A man must not come there who has our citizenship. What's your criteria? Explain to me, please. That no one reacts from here to say, where they are human rights fighters, isn't that demeaning, disabling a man. Why? It's his fault he came from Kosovo and Metohija. What kind of way is that? A dead cold man comes out here nice and says it to the entire Serbian public, and this is where the Assembly stands, brings resolutions, declarations, etc. Then I'm not surprised that Tadic can do whatever he wants. He says, well, there are big problems. But if that law doesn't work out and you and our regulations don't start with a normal choice, there's nothing going on. These criteria of yours are stretching. Your Justice Council represents personal interests and a bit of party interests. The last session of our Justice Committee was so clearly represented by party interests. And all of this wuss, we just have 50 contested proposals, is because one party said -- we don't accept it, and they come out. Then we should vote on every proposal in particular. No problem, they'll vote, it's most of the responsibility to secure. What's the principle? Why? He's arguing because he doesn't have a college opinion, and the candidate isn't from that court, he's from someone else. It is disputed that the Bar Association has not delivered an opinion. He's arguing over something that's all the previous actions that don't affect that main store. Furthermore, as far as the worksheet is concerned, the worksheet should be an official secret. In addition to the people of the judiciary, the Justice Committee should probably see that, since it has a name - official secret. You copy it nicely and send it with materials to the board members, and the press gets it. I'm warning you because of one case, it was a tragic case seven or eight years ago in Nis, that a woman, a responsible, good judge, an honest woman, slaughtered in front of a doorstep, was slaughtered by one who was a party in one of the proceedings in which she participated. Take care, protect the people. The next thing is very difficult – public open letters are addressed by judicial interns, lawyers, prosecutors. How do you allow the D.A. to talk to you through the papers? The prosecutor of the Third District Public Prosecutor's Office is writing you a letter through the papers. You're at the head of the pyramid, there's a hierarchy. How can he communicate with you through newspapers? President of the Supreme Court, how did you let that one of yours run the criminal unit? When the money dispute turned out, he holds a press conference and says – The Supreme Court should go into liquidation. Run procedure to resolve. He doesn't know the Supreme Court can't be liquidated. What's he talking about? How can he judge when he doesn't make a difference what liquidation is, what isn't liquidation? Pull some reins, make some order in that judiciary. They're all free shooters. Anyone can pick you up from justice unless they're right. If they're right, then I'm not well informed, so I'm attacking these people wrongly. But you've got to seduce the order. Please remove those items that are hiding immediately, there are many cases that are hiding in the prosecution. And, notice, from some cases, the prosecutors removed the file. Don't say I didn't distract you in time. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, if he enters a municipal court in his place, asks several people for a random sample, he will get a real picture of the situation in that court. Do not make analyses through some NGOs and other organizations to find out what the situation in court is. It's clear, in every court, you know which lawyer has priority, which lawyer's office, who gets what cases, which court council is in charge of detention, which is kindly, which is not. This is mildly 2000 euros, this is 5,000 euros. Ask that lawyer, people know all that. We don't have to close our eyes. Of course, we didn't come up with those big things that I hope we can discuss when it's on the agenda. The only good thing about this election is that the High Council of Justice didn't accept Jan Todjeski to be elected district court, although he was honoring him there in court and they were looking forward to it. Be assured that it's the right decision for you not to suggest him, because, uh, deal with the criminal cases that are in that man's possession.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13266	Thank you very much. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? Mr. Jovan Palalic, then Janko Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13267	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the High Council of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that the Committee on Justice and Administration has held four sessions on the agenda for the election of judicial holders. In addition to the fact that the subject of the discussion at these sessions were individual candidates for the holders of judicial functions, specifically for the presidents of the courts, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors and judges, such discussions also raises the main issues of the functioning of the judiciary in general, the policy in the field of justice. I can say, as president of the Committee, that these sessions have been truly useful discussions, that large topics have been opened and that there is no doubt that in the coming period the Justice Committee will define and, in co-operation with other judicial institutions, specifically determine the direction of reform in the Serbian judiciary. During today's discussion, many heard about the state of justice in Serbia. As chairman of the Committee, I can agree with all the debaters, especially the members of the Committee on Justice, because more or less we have all received those reports from the President of the District Courts on the state and work of municipal courts from their territory, where problems in functioning are seen, and especially what hurts the citizens most, and this is a lack of urgency and the fact that there is much to be expected in protecting their rights. Of course, there are some topics that are still potential today, which is the relationship between the National Assembly, in particular the Committee on Justice and Administration and the High Council of Justice. I must say that after 2001, after the amendments to the law in the area of justice, the adoption of a new law on judges, the public prosecutor's office, the High Council of Justice also took place in the position of the Justice and Administration Committee when it comes to the choice of legal holders. Compared to the time before 2001, when it was the Committee on Justice and Administration who proposed the holders of judicial functions, and the Assembly chose them, now the Committee on Justice and Administration has limited powers and jurisdiction when it comes to it. Here I can fully agree with my colleague Krasic that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not in line with this new role and competence of the Justice and Administration Committee. Perhaps hence and dilemmas in this regard, what specific data should be given to the Committee on Justice and Administration by the Proposer, the High Council of Justice, when it comes to the adoption of the position, which is whether or not to accept the individual candidate proposed by the High Council of Justice. I can say, and that was heard yesterday at the pay phone, that progress has been made when it comes to this kind of communication, regardless of what it is not to the end as we have decided on the Committee. However, we are getting a lot more information when it comes to the proposed candidates and I hope that in the coming period this committee will improve this communication with the High Council of Justice much more. As these laws have clearly defined the role of the High Council of Justice and the National Assembly, the Justice Committee, I can say that there has been a promotion of a partnership between those two bodies that play a role in co-decision in the selection of judicial officials. The High Council of Justice is the one proposing a candidate and there is a great role and competence of the High Council of Justice and the obligation to reach the best candidates through its internal acts and orderly work. But that final correction, when it comes to the assessment of the expertise and dignity of individual candidates, is given by the National Assembly. I believe that in the next period these two authorities, the High Council of Justice and the National Assembly, will find a way and a model of co-operation that will contribute to selecting the best candidates. So, the Serbian judiciary gets motivated, professional, impartial studies that will be for the Serbian judiciary's pride. What's quite said here, these are criteria based on which the High Council of Justice has proposed individual candidates. It can be considered whether these criteria are accurate, whether they have caused some confusion and whether citizens have led to the proposal of the best candidates. Of course, when you look back at the way the candidates were chosen for the holders of judicial functions, I can estimate that, regardless of the fact that there have probably been certain failures, this progress relative to the previous time. As I said, the principles of discussion were really exhaustive, especially as to what the judiciary should look like in Serbia, in which way the holders of judicial functions should be elected. There were ideas, on the one hand, that they should be chosen exclusively by judges, and on the other hand, that it should be done by the National Assembly. I think the current solutions, proposed by the 2001 law, have not yet exhausted their potential and potential to establish an independent judiciary in Serbia. If, in the next period, we can access these solutions and laws in the right way, if there are communications between the National Assembly and the High Council of Justice better, if the criteria are defined more precisely, I believe that the Serbian judiciary, the whole situation will be much better. Of course, communication topics have been opened and there are issues of the responsibility of the Justice Committee, especially as Serbian citizens have clear and concrete objections to the work of judicial institutions. This is a question of how communication will be established between the competent committee which has received a very large number of complaints from the High Council of Justice and we are still waiting for an answer to these complaints. Of course, there are the issues of resolutions that have been raised here, and I believe that in the next period and the Greater personally, in that sense, will work better. What's said at the beginning is that this is one of the largest choices of judicial officials so far. The fact is that there were really good candidates and the fact is that on the Justice Committee, some candidates proposed by the High Council of Justice received support, and some did not. It is important to say and it is important that representatives of the High Council of Justice send a clear message that those candidates who have not received the support of the High Council of Justice have hope, have a chance to get the opportunity in the next elections to be policymakers in the Serbian judiciary and bearers of judicial functions, because there were really good candidates, with good qualifications and deserve to be judges. In this case, there was not enough room for them, but while respecting all the complaints that have come, the quality of these candidates, I believe that representatives of the highest institutions in the Serbian judiciary will send a clear message that these best candidates will remain in the Serbian judiciary and be the bearers of judicial functions. In that sense, I want to say in the end that this is an opportunity to make a clear step in the development of the institutions formed in 2001 and to develop all those potentials that these laws provide for. The partnership between the National Assembly and the High Council of Justice is a condition. The High Council of Justice does not need to be afraid that the National Assembly will endanger its independence, on the contrary, precisely the work expected by the Committee on Justice and the National Assembly will be the subject of judicial independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13268	Before I conclude a unique search, I give the final word V.D. Supreme Court President Mr. Janko Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened to these two days of many discussions, and with great numbers I would agree. There's one part I wouldn't agree with. What I would agree first is that this law on the High Council of Justice is not good and should be changed. It is not good, if it has already gone to the concept of the Law on the High Council of Justice, because in the present situation it is not quite well and advisable until a certain time to be there and representatives of the executive authority, if it is given independence of the judiciary, if this concept is left behind. So far experience with the High Council of Justice suggests that it still has some influence by the executive authority, and I say it publicly, because I have come to the head of this High Council by my own free will, but when I was put to office on 28 April this year by a secret vote of 50 judges with 44 votes. Then, by amending this Law on the High Council of Justice, I became functionally the chairman of the council. The first thing I did, what I said yesterday, was we brought the criteria, I insisted on bringing them in, we brought them in, I tried to respect them. Furthermore, my proposal on how to work on this High Council was not accepted. If my suggestions and suggestions had been accepted that this High Council of Justice should work, I'm sure there would be no such complaints, or open letters. However, since our reality is what it is, and these letters are not entirely random. When I looked at complaints, or letters from the Second Municipal Court, there was an average of six and something about 60 years of life. He's protesting because he wasn't put on that list. Also, the next candidate doesn't meet those conditions. The High Council disagreed, there were two or three of us who advocated the second concept: in order to collect as much data as possible, we proposed that a working group be set up within the High Council, which in one choice would process all candidates, conduct talks, collect data and systematicize all of this, the rules of the ranking list on the basis of these criteria, are laid down on the High Council. It has not been accepted, and I believe, therefore, the next time a second group is elected, then there will be no convergence between members of the High Council and candidates who have not passed for the next election. In view of all this and the great lack of judges and that, as I said yesterday, every day of the election, delaying elections brings dozens and hundreds of pending cases (because one judge solved only one subject a day, so see how much it is), I accepted that we work the way we worked. I can say that not many mistakes have been made, I say responsibly, but of course, it's very dangerous to steal and one mistake, I'm quite aware of that. As far as these proposed candidates are concerned, the most objections were from the municipality courts in Belgrade. When we looked at this list again, we saw that the vast majority of these candidates proposed by the High Council of Justice have a high average, but it's not just a high average. We combined all these criteria – average, length of study, length of work experience, obtaining an opinion and assessments of the college. Often these evaluations and evaluations of the college were not quite objective. There's a lot of subjectivism, so we've come up with some data with our knowledge and personal conversations. It's about these candidates for municipal court judges. As for the election of judges for district courts and the Supreme Court, there is a different situation. I agree that there are a large number of candidates with poor work results, but that's the case. However, statistics are a miracle; in cases where we had data that a large number of judges by some standards and estimates were quite good, and that their average was poor, we did checks on these statistics and went to our group to look. These statistics show only the number of the complainants, as far as it's been abolished, as it's confirmed and modified. However, when comparison was made with the total metric solution, we came up with other data and prevailed with the opinion that individual candidates and this high percentage of abolished decisions would be supported. Given all these criteria, we tried from what we had, which was available and possible to suggest. I have to say clearly and loudly that in certain environments, precisely because we didn't have a chance to choose quality, we didn't propose. I don't know if we were wrong. Maybe we did, maybe we didn't. On the one hand we are, and on the other hand we are not. We've made a mistake because there's a build-up of objects, there's no one to solve it, and on the other hand, what now and if it solves, so it's back in the process. So they were all dilemmas in front of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, I advocate amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, and it would have to be professionalized in some way and do this job, because there is a lot of work to be done. We do not have, in this concept, a suitable service that would qualityly prepare these materials for our session. I answer the questions raised by Bosko Ristic yes, and that is that at the High Council of Justice session before the decision on candidates, I have changed the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, and at that time there was a lot of clarity for me, and the rules of procedure continued to be done. So this proposal of ours is here. We're there at the High Council of Justice 11 sinners maybe, and here you need to be 250, so you gentlemen, I beg you, correct our mistakes, if you think we've made them. Since I see where this judicial ship is sailing, I wish it every happiness and calm sea.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13270	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, the contested proposals, on the basis of Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the basis of Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. Since the National Assembly has completed the examination of the single agenda item of this session and has decided that it is working today until the end of the agenda and voting, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 9 March 2005 as the day of voting, at 20.10 p.m. It is necessary to prepare all the contested proposals. [[After break – 21.20]] We move to a vote on the first and only item of the agenda – Termination of duty, resolution and selection of legal holders. Please, at the beginning of the work, we'll determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their parliamentary cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 129 MPs in the O.R. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with a correction, number 118-541/05. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 142, 59 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with correction, number 118-541/05. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-613/05. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 147, it did not vote 58 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, number 118-613/05. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, No 118-541/05 and No 118-613/05, I ask if you agree that these adopted proposals are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", as one legally-technically united act – a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 145, it did not vote 60 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Urosevec. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 147, 60 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge's duties as judge of the Municipal Court in Uroševec. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of office for the public prosecutor's office. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 147, he did not vote 61, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a decision on the selection of judges, with a proposal for a decision supplementing the draft decision, issue 119-111/05. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the selection of judges, with a proposal for a decision to supplement the motion for a decision, No 119-111/05, i.e. to suggest that these candidates are not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is not a choice. The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Skok, whose candidacy has been challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 184, one abstention, not 22, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragan Skok as the Supreme Court of Serbia judge. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vesna Jankovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as judge of the Belgrade District Court. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 79, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find the National Assembly has elected Vesna Jankovic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Bojana Paunovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as the judge of Belgrade's District Court. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 126, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 83, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Bojana Paunovic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Petar Grozdanovic for the judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 127, it did not vote 83, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Petar Grozdanovic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jelena Dragovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, to judge the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 128, they did not vote 82 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jelena Dragovic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milos Labudovic for the judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, it did not vote 79 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milos Labudovic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivana Mijacic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as the judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, they did not vote 82 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivana Mijacic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ana Milosevic for the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129, he did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ana Milosevic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Svetlana Ristic, whose candidacy has been challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 127, against one, they did not vote 82, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Svetlana Ristic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vida Simic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129, it did not vote 80 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vida Simic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Valentina Todorovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 147, they did not vote 62 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Valentina Todorovic as judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Milanka Radovanovic as Judge of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, it did not vote 79 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milanka Radovanovic as Judge of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Gordan Vukovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as the third municipal court judge in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 149, 60 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Gordana Vukovic as Judge of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jelena Nikolic for the fourth municipal court judge in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 148, it did not vote 60 out of 208 MPs. I find the National Assembly has elected Jelena Nikolic as the Fourth Municipal Court judge in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Branislavka Brankovic for the judge of the District Court in Smederev, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Vjerica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 109 against 58, abstention 21, they did not vote 22, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Branislavka Brankovic as judge of the District Court in Smederev. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Predrag Lukic for the judge of the District Court in Smederev, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Vjerica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, against 58, they did not vote 22, out of 210 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Predrag Lukic as judge of the District Court in Smederev. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vuk Tufegdzic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Blagica Kostic, as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 119, against 8, they did not vote 83, out of 210 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Vuk Tufegdzic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Slobodan Spasic as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Momir Markovic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129 against 58, they did not vote 23 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slobodan Spasic as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, with a proposal for a decision to supplement the motion for a decision, No 119-111/05, without a proposal for an election by Ivana Rackovic for a Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court who gave up the application for the choice of the judge and without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, against 58, they did not vote 22, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the selection of judges, with a proposal for a decision to supplement the motion for a decision, No 119-111/05, without a proposal to elect Ivana Rackovic as Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, who gave up the application for the choice of the judge and without the contested proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a choice of judges, issue 119-53/05. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, issue 119-53/05, or suggest that these candidates be not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zeljko Scepanovic for the judge of the District Court in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Vjerica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 78, against 58, abstentioned 52, they did not vote 22, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Zeljko Scepanovic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Juliana Budincevic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as the judge of the District Court in Novi Sad. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 76, abstentions, 74, were not voted 60, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Juliana Budincevic to judge the District Court in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Mr Ilija Zindovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as judge of the District Court in the Kingdom. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 125, against 22, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 62, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Master Ilija Zindovic as judge of the District Court in the King. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Marina Ilic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miodrag Djidic, as judge of the District Court in the Kingdom. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, against 22, it did not vote 60 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Marina Ilic as judge of the District Court in the King. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-53/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129, he did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-53/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the motion for a decision on the selection of judges, issue 119-3865/04. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, issue 119-3865/04, or suggest that these candidates be not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Stojil Stankovic for the judge of the District Court in Vranj, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For one against 130, 79 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Stojil Stankovic to judge the District Court in Vranj. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Violet Vasiljevic for the judge of the Municipal Court in Bolovac, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, it did not vote 78 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Violeta Vasiljevic as Judge of the Municipal Court in Boljevac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Gordan Predolac for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrnjačka Banja, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the People's MP, Verica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 53, against 79, abstained 53, they did not vote 24, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Gordana Presolac as the Judge of the Municipal Court in Vrnjak Banja. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Radmila Popovic for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Temerin, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the People's MP, Verica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For two, against 179 abstentions, two did not vote 26 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Radmila Popovic as the municipal court judge in Temerin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zorica Cocovic for the judge of the Municipal Court in Priboj, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 38, against 37, abstentioned 54, was not voted 80, out of a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Zorica Ciocovic as the municipal court judge in Priboj. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-3865/04, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, it did not vote 78 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-3865/04, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the choice of judges, No 119-111/05, 119-53/05 and 119-3865/04, we need to make clear on the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the choice of judges. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, against one, he did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to a decision on the contested proposal from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3866/04. Since the Committee for Justice and Administration has disputed the proposal of the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3866/04, i.e. proposing that the candidate be not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Dragica Tucakov, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration for the President of the Municipal Court in Vienna. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For one, against 125, two abstentions, did not vote 82, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen Dragica Tucakov as the President of the Municipal Court in Vienna. Since the National Assembly did not elect Dragica Tucakov as president of the Municipal Court in Vienna, there is no need for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to declare on the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, No 119-3866/04, since the contested proposal was also the only proposal for a choice in that draft decision. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3807/04. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3807/04, or suggest that these candidates not be elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I put forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Milorad Dedic for the President of the Somboro District Court, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 22, against 53, abstained 54, he did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Milorad Dedic as the President of the District Court in Somboro. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Radovan Cvetkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Municipal Court in Lebanon. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 96, against 53, it did not vote 60 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Radovan Cvetkovic as the President of the Municipal Court in Lebanon. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Bakar Tomic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Municipal Court in Alibunar. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, it did not vote 79 out of 209 MPs. I find the National Assembly has elected Bakara Tomic as the president of the Municipal Court in Alibunar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vujos Tosic, whose candidacy has been challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Municipal Court in Žabari. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 108, against 21, 80 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vujos Tosic as the president of the Municipality of Žabari. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Slobodana Jeremic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Municipal Court in Cajetina. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 83, against 125, two of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Slobodana Jeremic to be the president of the Municipality court in Chejetina. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milos Mladenovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 164, against 22, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milos Mladenovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-3807/04, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129, they did not vote 82 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-3807/04, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously declared. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3687/04. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3687/04, or suggest that these candidates not be elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Slobodan Nadrljanski for the President of the District Court in Novi Sad, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 132, two, abstention 71, were not voted by three, of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slobodan Nadrljanski as the President of the District Court in Novi Sad. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Vladimir Bajic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, for the President of the District Court in Sapac. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 138, against 43, with three abstentions, it did not vote 26 out of 210 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has elected Vladimir Bajic as the President of the District Court in Šapec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Gordan Kocic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Trade Court in Zrenjanin. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For one, against 125, two abstentions, they did not vote 83, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Gordana Kocic as president of the Trade Court in Zrenjanin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jasmina Zjajic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 54, abstention 74, they did not vote 83, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Jasmine Zjajic as President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vida Petrovic-Skero, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Blagica Kostic, Milan Markovic and Miodrag Djidic, as president of Serbia's Supreme Court. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 183, against 26, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vida Petrovic-Skero as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-3687/04, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 130, a abstentioned one, was not voted 80, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-3687/04, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-3866/04, 119-3807/04 and 119-3687/04, I ask if you agree that all the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the election of the President of the Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 129, he did not vote 81, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since the Committee for Justice and Administration has challenged a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice in the Proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors, i.e. proposing that these candidates not be elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jovica Maksimovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 111 against 76, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Jovica Maksimovic as district public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect the magistrate, Miroslav Simic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, for the municipal public prosecutor at the Obrenovac Public Prosecutor's Office. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 126, against three, it did not vote 79 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Miroslav Simic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Obrenovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Desimir Stojanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Majdanpek. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, he did not vote 81 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Desimir Stojanovic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's public prosecutor's office in Majdanpek. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragic Dragic Dragic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 126, it did not vote 82 out of 208 MPs. I find the National Assembly has elected Dragic Dragic Dragicevic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect the Bureau of Justice, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration, for the municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 111 against 73, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Biro Chaba as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, without a proposal for the election of Veselin Mrdak as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which the High Council of Justice withdrew without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously said. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, it did not vote 80 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of public prosecutors, without a proposal for the election of Veselin Mrdak as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which the High Council of Justice has withdrawn without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously declared. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of Deputy Prosecutors of Public Prosecutors, issue 119-395/04, or suggest that these candidates be not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Branko Maric, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. 79 of the 208 MPs did not vote for 129. I find that the National Assembly has elected Branko Maric as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Maksimovic-Seculic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Against 125, two abstentions, did not vote 81, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Aleksandra Maksimovic-Sekulic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Miroslav Opacic, whose candidacy has been challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Bolovac. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 20, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 80, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Miroslav Opačić as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Bolovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Pavle Markicevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Milan Stevovic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 57, against 79 abstentions 57, it did not vote 14, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Pavol Markicevic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Požega. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, No. 119-395/04, without a proposal for the election of Maria Šushnevic, who withdrew the application for election as deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, it did not vote 80 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, No. 119-395/04, without a proposal to elect Maria Šushnevic, who withdrew an application for election as deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. Since the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of Deputy Prosecutors of Public Prosecutors, issue 119-275/05, or suggest that these candidates be not elected, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Radosav Milivojevic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office – the Military Department, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration and the People's MP, Verica Radet. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 125, against 58, it did not vote 25 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Radosav Milivojevic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office – Military Department. I am voting on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Milan Petkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the People's MP Vjerica Radet, as deputy prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 127, against 58, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, out of a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milan Petkovic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office – Military Department. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-275/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, against one, it did not vote 78, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, number 119-275/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, issue 119-3954/04 and 119-275/05, I ask if you agree that these adopted proposals are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 128, against two, 77 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, let me, in your name and in your name, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them success in the work. I remind you he's a member of 47. The law on judges found that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia took an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mrs. Vidu Petrovic-Skero, president of the Serbian Supreme Court, to take an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13272	I swear by my honor that I will do my duty faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, by my best knowledge and skill, and serve only truth and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-09-0.u13273	I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia to sign the text of the oath. Let me congratulate Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Škero on your behalf and on my behalf and wish her much success in her work. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the only item of the agenda and decision on it, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005.
