ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15661	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin today's debate to take this opportunity to thank you once again for the tremendous effort you made during yesterday, working almost all night until early morning hours, 04.35. Unfortunately, despite this great effort of yours, we have failed to complete a united debate on the Government Act and the State Administration Act. There are still a number of amendments left to discuss the State Administration Act. Therefore, the debate was concluded both in principle and in detail on the Government Act. Given that the government wants to make a full contribution to making a very important institute for the work of the Assembly and the functioning of political life in Serbia, which is, recently, a request to vote for no confidence in the Government, I am withdrawing the Law on State Administration and the next item of the agenda of the Competition Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15662	In accordance with Article 139. The legislator's Rules of Procedure shall have the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I find these two points have been withdrawn from the agenda. We move to item 14 of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia's TELECOMMUNICATION Agency You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've received a report from the Traffic and Communications Committee. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the Traffic and Connection Committee's reporter want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89, want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a candidate for election of the President and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the National Assembly Industry Committee with a proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for the election of the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly will decide on the election of the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day. We are moving to a joint single search of the 16th and 17th points of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE CONCESSION OF CONCESSION FOR BUILDING, CONSERVATION AND USE OF THE AUTHORITY FROM HORGOSE TO POZEGA, LOT-1: BELGRAD-POZE (E-763), LOT-2: HORGOŠ-NOVI USA (E-75) AND LOT-3: NEW US-BELGRAD (E-75) AND AUTOPUTOMUTE E-80 FROM NIŠ (PETLA TRUPALE) TO DIMITROVGRAD (with the proposals of conclusions) I remind you that you that you have received for these points of the agenda: - a proposal for the construction, maintenance and use of the highway from Horgoš to Požega, Lot-1: Belgrade-Pošječe i Košte (75) with the proposal from S. You've received reports from the Traffic and Communications Committee. In addition, you received a proposal for a conclusion and information on the launch of the government of the Republic of Serbia to grant concessions for the construction of the E-75 highway, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the 16th and 17th agenda, proposed by MP Milos Aligrudic, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 156 paragraph 3 and Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 21 minutes 36 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, which are four MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, three Social Democratic Party MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint single search on: - Proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of a full route from Horgos to Požega, LOT-1: Belgrade-Pozega (E-763), LOT-2, Horgos-Novi Sad (E-75) and LOT-3: Novi Sad-Belgrade (E-75), with a proposal for a conclusion; - a proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of the E-80 highway from Nis (Trupale loop) to Dimitrovgrad, with a proposal for a conclusion. Since the proposaler's representative has not arrived, I am giving a break for 15 minutes; professional services to call urgently Minister Velimir Ilic, a proposing official. Time out for 15 minutes. [[After break – 15,20]] We're continuing our work. Just a moment, please determine the quorum at the beginning. I ask MPs to insert their cards into their identification units. The use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, by what member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15664	Unfortunately, all of us today are forced to address you for the same reason that I...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15665	Please, by what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15666	In accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because it offends the dignity of this house and I must again speak to you on the same basis that I addressed yesterday morning when the session took place. The man we talked about yesterday, which is Bogoljub Karic, today dared to come outside the parliament building, but did not dare enter the parliament building, because he knows what would wait for him here. This man has tried or held a press conference today with one unfortunate man, who, by the circumstances, is a MP in this House, and has persuaded him, as far as I've heard, to say... (President: I warn you, Mr. Aligrudic. )......................................................................................................... that the DSS, or myself, offered him money to move in with us. Imagine that. So, "who's lying, he's safe and he's stealing," says the old folk proverb, and whoever's stealing can kill, and whoever's doing this is doing everything I've talked about, they belong, they know where, in prison. Therefore, our task, the task of all of us, regardless of party membership, in this House, regardless of how ideologically we are defined, would be to cleanse society of such evil, because such evil is nothing more than a "crush wound" on Serbia's body. It must be drained and cleaned with a good disinfectant.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15667	Mr. Aligrudic, yesterday I warned you and you know that I insist that all MPs, and they are here by being run by their parties or coalitions, and that's the only way to be members of this Parliament, have equal status and none of them can stand out. Also, you know very well that the Assembly has equal status towards all citizens; all citizens can walk in front of the Assembly and make statements, just as, thanks to this meeting, I have informed both the public and the heads of parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties, they can visit the Assembly. So there's no reason for that tone. The day of the open door this month is the 28th and requests are received, please, through the cabinet of the President of the Assembly. Anyone who tried to force himself in, of course, would have the consequences you were talking about. Thank you. Please continue where we left off before the break. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here's an explanation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15668	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you must have read the material in question. We made one decision at the Serbian government and gave the Assembly a review, "a concession for the Horgos-Požega highway". The highway would be run in three LOTAs, fully independent: LOT 1: Belgrade-Požega, LOT 2: Novi Sad-Horgosh and LOT 3: Belgrade-Novi Sad. You know that a few months ago, we became a transport centre for Southeast Europe again, and we got one condition that in the next three years, we had to make 10 highways on the Corridors, that we had to reconstruct the railway corridor and that we had to do certain works on the Danube and the arms of Corridor 7, which is Sava through the Serbia area. We must fulfill those obligations. You know that we have lost part of Corridor 10 to the Macedonian border, because we have not completed the work that was planned – we have not made the highway and that part is no longer an integral part of Corridor 10, but Corridor 10 has gone over Nis to Dimitrovgrad, then to Bulgaria. In our environment, many struggle to make some new European corridors. Romanians are working intensively on the Budapest-Bukurest highway, then Bucharest-Sofia, along with Bulgarians, and the corridor is under construction. The Croats want Budapest-Split done, the work is under way. If Serbia does not do the highways that are scheduled, we will lose what is most important through Serbia at this moment, which is Corridor 10. We, by the means we get – through credit lines, how creditworthy we are to build infrastructure, especially the travel network – about 80 million euros a year, that would be enough for the next 15 years to do these highways. However, Europe does not want to wait and we must do something faster. The only way is, since we have restrictions from financial institutions, global and European institutions, we have to go to concessions. Concessions are the only way to build highways through Serbia, which is currently being done in the world. We need to speed up the process and build highways with concessions, because with the dynamics of the credit lines we meet annually we can work about 20 kilometers of highways, which is completely insufficient to make the infrastructure that Europe is asking us to do. Therefore, there is already a meeting of EU Transport Ministers in Moscow on Tuesday and will be very serious about these corridors, and Serbia must provide guarantees that it will build highways through its territory. There have been objections to the province's leadership and the Vojvodina Assembly, but the objections are incorrect. We sign a 72m-euro contract with the IBRD today at 1800 hours, a quota for this year. All 72m euros will be invested in Vojvodina. Last year we invested a complete credit line on the construction of highways in the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Croatian border and in Vojvodina, and because of the European championship, in the road of the Panče-Roman border. Serbia is in charge of this loan as a state, but we invest where it is most necessary to invest to keep these corridors I was talking about. This politicisation does not stand, and Serbia's travel network is unique. In order to justify the construction of the highway ( since the state does not have part of the funds it would give from the budget or by credit lines), we must invest something in the part of the road made from Belgrade to Novi Sad, but it is credited and it must be paid off as well. So I want to talk very seriously. This is for Serbia "to be or not to be", to keep the corridors we have. To keep them, we need to invest about a million euros in two years, so that we can train these corridors to be European corridors, because the highway cannot be a European corridor. We had sanctions, they understood us, we had bombings, war, and they gave us some deadlines until we had to finish it. Please, you are responsible people, we need to make highways through Serbia, we need to fit into a new concept of Europe "combined transport". It's a very fast transport: from river traffic on the railways, on the road and on the sea roads. This is the "combined transport", in which Europe is currently investing most. Italy alone invests two billion euros in this "combined transport" project. Central Europe is extremely interested in going out to the Adriatic, on the seaways. If we do not do part of Corridor 10 towards the "South Adriatic 2", as the leg of Corridor 10, the Croats will reach Split and we will have no interest, and no one will finance our part of the highway. This is necessary for all of Serbia, for development and we must move towards that investment. I think it is the interest of all MPs to make good roads through Serbia, because this is the basis for further development of the state. First, the infrastructure must be done, then the travel network. On these roads, we will track and build pipelines, pipelines and set up optical cables wherever necessary, (and other installations) which is necessary and what is used everywhere in the world. Therefore, this project is extremely good, economically justified. There's been a "study of justification" of a project like this, and I hope you will support it. I don't want to discuss whether or not the highway needs to be discussed right now, but this is the only way to do it in a very short time. Therefore, not to be a longer story, there were various combinations on this part – that pass through the protected zone - the Ovčar-cabbler cleavage etc. We've given the designers to remove that part. According to the Space Plan, that's how it was, but we're going to move it out so that we don't endanger the sacred or protected areas, but we're going to go completely through the project, and this project is going to be over very soon. Please support this project as the biggest investment currently in Serbia, as large investments can start the country, can be an injection to the Serbian economy and new jobs. Europe wants to invest most in the road network, rail and energy. Let's take this chance they're giving us. You know that today has begun the largest IBRD bankers' meeting, Europe's strongest financial institutions. They support this project. This morning was the World Bank, giving the green light. Its advisers will work to prepare the concession act, and representatives of European banks, the World Bank and the IMF have worked fully on this concession. If we want to go to Europe, here we go, make highways and become a part of Europe. Please support this project, we're serious people. This isn't politics, this isn't about political parties and options. We all need good roads, highways, to encourage Serbia's development. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, help Serbia enter a serious project. This is the first major project to be done and the biggest project in 50 years. We support him and move towards this project, which the whole world and Europe support. I hope you will support him, too, that we will immediately call a tender and that we will have a chance to start construction on the highway in the fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15669	Before I ask if the president, or authorised representatives, want to inform you that we have an authorised representative for the SPS parliamentary group, and the authorised representative is Milomir Minic. Now I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Milomir Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15670	The respected presidency, respected colleagues and respected ministers, I think Minister Ilic said the essence, and just a few more observations. I believe that there are two good decisions in front of the Republic Parliament and the SPS Parliament Club will support them. It is certain that these decisions are in line with the biggest investment initiatives we have had in the last few years. Perhaps around our commitment to Europe there is no dilemma that transport corridors are the greatest developmental chances Serbia has. About both of these directions, I think they're well placed in these decisions. These are development projects directly in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why these are important decisions and they're very responsible. This decision only begins an initiative for the implementation of these projects, and the final word will again be given by parliament. I think there are some temptations in the very realization of the projects, which the Parliament must and the government and our entire public are concerned about. When it comes to "Ibar Masteral", 20 years in Serbia are debated whether to build an Ibar highway or the highway "South Adriatic"?- I'm sorry. I just want to make two facts. Today, 4.5 million Serbian citizens live in the Ibar Highway corridor. So half of Serbia lives in that corridor, let's count, like, 20 or 30 big cities. The construction of this investment and this highway indeed provides a great opportunity to develop both central and western Serbia. The studies we did, when we were doing the main project of the Ibar Highway, show that this year we have a daily average annual traffic of 8,000 vehicles. It is estimated that in 2015 we will have about 15,000 vehicles, and in 2020 we will have 20,000 vehicles. So this route in Serbia meets the most European standards to build a highway through Serbia. This removes another major misunderstanding in Serbia's development. That's what I was talking about last time, when we were talking about the railroad. All directions through Serbia are built: North - South, and we have no communication East - West. The construction of this highway really enables one natural integration of Serbia and creates conditions for the even development of all our parts. I was a little surprised by the parliament's initiative in Vojvodina not to associate the parts of the highway from the Hungarian border to Belgrade with the Ibar highway. Today, there are a lot of capital in the world that wants to invest in the travel network, especially on such important projects, but it is not easy to bring investors. When we talked about these corridors a few years ago, to give concessions and bring investors, everyone was interested in taking Nis - Belgrade to the concession. So, in order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of these projects, you have to "connect" revenue and I think the government has chosen a good orientation to connect one traffic corridor. Today, we at Corridor 10 from the Hungarian border to Nis already have an average of 8,000 vehicles, with the same estimates that in the next ten years, this traffic volume can be increased to 20,000. The fight for corridors, and I think the minister is quite right, but the entire parliament knows that the great interests of which roads come to this large market in Southeast Europe, which counts about 250 million inhabitants. They are neither for underestimation nor for these routes across Romania, nor for Greece, Italy, Central and Western Europe. The best defense of our corridors is if it's built. It's positive stuff and everybody gets it. It gets the economy, citizens get safe and good traffic, and our economy is trained to be competitive on the European market. If we take only western Serbia, which can be a good fruit producer, if we do not want to be Africa in food production, we must have good communication, but we are faced with great commitments how to implement these concessions, how to get to a better partner. What is Serbia's experience with concessions? Serbia's experience with concessions is not good, and we had very little. One was also decided by parliament in Serbia at the time when it decided to build Serbia's first railway line. We were having a big affair. So it's very important to be very competent and with the position of defence of our interests, an idea project to end, to do this concession act, because it has to be done so well, because as a country in 20 years we'll be dealing with this investment. When we give concession we exempt part of our country from our own jurisdiction and give in to others, so that building highways will not only be laying down these August tapes, but building an entire modern industry, services, tourism and everything else. That's why it's very important that we protect our interest in making these documents. In our closest environment, the last concession was in Hungary: the French were working and now they are having a dispute about the viability of the project – they are looking for an appropriate extension because these investments were allegedly not profitable. So, before the government, but also before this parliament, there is a great responsibility to do this job in a way that will get good investors, which will be good guarantees that this job will be successful. Here is mentioned for the Ibar Highway for 20 years, and for the direction of the Nis-Bulgarian border up to 25 years. There's a little catch-up coming up. It doesn't matter how much compensation there will be in projects like this. The most important thing is that we get an investor who will end the investment in a short time and deliver these highway routes to Serbia when the deadlines are up. I think it is a hell of a complicated business that, depending on how they are done, Serbia will benefit or be in trouble. I would suggest to the government that we have a bad experience after the opening, that our construction industry today doesn't have enough reference to participate in the tenders. They can be favored by foreign companies, and I certainly think this is such a colossal development project for Serbia (it will certainly change several governments), that a firm determination of this parliament and one great control over such important projects is needed. I am convinced that the investment will be more than the minister said, about 1.5 billion euros, as our experts took according to the first projects to cost 6m euros per kilometer of highway. In our terms, I think there will be more, but this is an idea project expected to be completed in July or September, it will give all these positive elements. So, the whole of Serbia will have to prepare very well so that one big venture can be realised like this. That is why I believe that, with several advantages that Serbia has as a comparative advantage, traffic corridors are on "number one" and that is why this decision is significant. It would be good to return to parliament as soon as the final decision is made and if we have the full support of all entities in the Republic, I think that valorising what the Serbian Government is proposing today can be very positive for our economy, for the citizens of Serbia and for the overall valorisation of what we can expect in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15671	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it's hard to face this challenge as a complete opposition, but when you know it's a government threatened by a no-confidence vote, a government in which a large number of SRS MPs have no confidence, then I'm surprised by this hasty and this exorcism of the MPs, so that these points will be brought before the story of a vote of mistrust by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You were able to kill us with a night's work to get this point on the agenda while you were still in power. And because of that, and because of some more small details, I have a very abstention on the proposal to give concessions and I'm going to try to explain it, so the citizens and you who are going to decide what this is really about. Serbia needs major construction work. Serbia needs public works on the road, and I would say that Serbia should throw itself on the rivers because rivers can become extraordinary waterways, many people can be employed on rivers, a lot of money from the budget is given to people who do not come to work anywhere. Yes, travel is a challenge. You saw, as soon as the DOS came to power, the road construction became the basic story of the then government; and even the greatest criminal in Serbia was given the right to work on the road and here the Prime Minister himself defended him as the man who had the best offer!- I'm sorry. In the roadblock, and that started since the first transport companies were formed in America, there's always the mafia! And the question is, how mature are we going to all these jobs, now that the state is out of hand. A state where millions of people do not work, where they are threatening to cut pensions by 35-40%, as the IMF no longer allows the tap to open when it is due to pay off pensions, suddenly wants to invest a billion, two billion euros of money to be poured in some way. Does the state have a firm or companies that will be able to handle this business? There isn't! This job is meant for strangers. Perhaps even, as at the time of the previous DOS government, a company fictitiously registered in Vienna. It's possible. Because you're from the same political mile. You have the same mental set! In the same way, many ministers representing small political parties sing one song, one summer. As long as it takes that song to finish as many jobs as possible, to focus as many jobs as possible. Either to gain political reputation, to try to get the party into parliament again, or to achieve material gain! It's easy for us to tell here how hard it is to build a road from Belgrade to Požega. Well, we all know that. I don't know why to Požega. What's not up with the Uzic? What isn't up with Ovcar Banja? How did we get to Požega? How can we not make it to Sevojna highway? Yes, the track is extremely heavy. Who spent the day on a construction site, and I spent years, I know what a large enterprise it is, and I know you can't avoid that route because at least two mountains cross. And that's why there are partially or almost built roads in it. Now, that's where criminals always show up -- toll collection. Toll charge is important here! Because it's an unlimited resource. They know people who've been dealing with the Roads Directorate what it looks like when control is carried out and when it comes to the so-called. unmatched charts, or whenever money is needed in cash, the government addresses the Road Directorate. That's where the money comes in. So, to give someone for two years the use and maintenance of built roads, on which toll is charged, to be able to build a road, which is important to us, the way of Belgrade - Požega. And it's all wrapped up in a concession maybe over 400 kilometers long, it doesn't matter. A lot of things around here are suspicious. If we're building this much, and we've built objects like this and people haven't forgotten it. We were working on the Belgrade-Bar track where this is a child's toy, and we didn't have any foreign performers. And the country was just as poor as it is now. If we're building that road, did we predict how many of our workers will work on that road and how many foreign ones? Are there any restrictions on the tender? You know that according to the concession law, the minister determines a commission to conduct a concession tender. The congregation has the right to only one member. That the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, part of this concession goes through Vojvodina, is first obliged by the Government to seek an opinion and then (and the Vojvodina) is obliged to give an opinion within 30 days. I guess the law didn't predict - and what if it had a negative opinion?- I'm sorry. Will there be a conflict? Because if the AP is already involved and the opinion is asked of it, what does her negative opinion mean in this whole business? Of course, the final decision will be made by the government. And what if in the meantime there's a vote of mistrust to the government? Oh, that's all in front of us. Unfortunately, maybe not. Otherwise, this is a government that needs to be voted out immediately. Unfortunately, maybe not. Because that's all you do is delay your agony and give some other criminals a chance to get involved in the budget or in the tasks that are waiting for us with foreign banks. Here, today, the World Bank will give us one 80 million euros in credit. Will we live better after these loans?- I'm sorry. How many loans did we take from 2000 to today, so what did we do? Well, don't you see that "Knjiz Milos" has been sold and that millions of euros have gone for sale without any investment in any new job!- I'm sorry. You've turned this country into a consumer society. The people are so eager for everything, as soon as a dinar gets to him, he buys consumption goods, and you give him credit just for consumption. Because there's no mother's son allowed to take a long-term loan from this government!- I'm sorry. Not for the house, not for the factory, not for any machine he needs to buy. No, you're offering him the benefit of paying off in three, four months. In three, four months, it's not something that can sustain a man, it's something that's going to spend his money on. We're basically for the concession. We're also for credit duties in construction, something that you, I don't know for what reason, are avoiding. And maybe there's some consortium in our house that could take credit and build this. He'll probably be rejected in an offer to the commission. In principle, "we're for construction, we're for concessions." But we're for full openness. But we are in favour of the election being in front of all Serbian citizens and of the references given to the citizens of Serbia for insight. Not like this part that's now being done, that's been taken from Borovici, that you don't really know who's doing it. You gave it to the Austrian, and it's done by the Uzic Road Company. For one tiny percentage that's going to get out of it. If it was possible for the Uzice Road Company to work that way, how come it couldn't get a concession? How come there was a firm girl who took the cock and left our workers to break machines? The share from Horgos to Belgrade is extremely easy to work on, cheap to build, there is only one bridge, and there should the Serbian government think without delay about the rebellion of one part of Srema, which insists that the bridge quota be reduced to a level that is acceptable to drivers, that they stop at the coast of the Danube or some city of Sreme, not go up, through the heavens, on high pillars, following the quota that has an existing bridge! Well, so, if you already know how much this trip costs, how much this concession is worth, and there's no idea project, then, here's the time to get involved in this bridge being done in accordance with both the requirements of the profession and the demands of the citizens. I know that many MPs will avoid discussing this, especially local self-government representatives. Since it's in the minister's hands and the knife and the cake, if it gives you money, you'll have roads. If he doesn't give you the money, you won't. If you're criticizing him, there's no money. If he's interested in winning elections somewhere, the minister will also secure roads and railways, and a cheap train to Belgrade. The minister, he estimated it could be a parliamentary party and used the money for the three ministries in its portfolio. That's how you pictured the government, so rule, that's how you do it! But this started a battle for parliamentary seats. We've had an uproar of this political party, with its laws, and here's the crowd of our dear minister, who cares about capital in investment. Now, if we already have capital in investment, let's divide it evenly. Let's, at least, let every Serbian citizen have the same benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15673	Thank you. The president of the DS parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic, spoke. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, before I go to debate on this agenda point, I really need to express my deep dissatisfaction that the entire parliament here yesterday was, or today, "maintained" by 4:30 in order to get Minister Loncar, I guess when he got some sleep and I don't know what he did this morning, he dreamed he should withdraw the law. You can't go to Europe like that. I hope this is the last time 250 MPs of this assembly, chosen by the people, most of the MPs who elected this government, were under the torture of the executive government. I hope the parliamentary majority will no longer allow it to be the subject of this torture. As far as we are from the opposition, we are here to defend our political views and our political beliefs. You could've kept us here for 10 days, we'd be doing our job. It just, as you can see, doesn't make any sense. So, to move to this point of the agenda, the DS holds that it's vital for the state to improve the infrastructure and within the framework of the infrastructure that, if not primarily, it's certainly among the first two or three systems of importance, it's important to build a road infrastructure. A few days ago, I was on a parliamentary trip to western Germany with my colleagues from DS and DSS. We have highlighted in many important places the need for Corridor 10 to be set as one of the priority state objectives and we have tried to bring our view of the importance of achieving this great infrastructure project for the whole state and nation. It is, in my opinion, from that foreign political wisdom, to be a priority against a certain approach to solving this problem. I am not against the definition that this issue will be resolved by making a decision on giving certain routes towards concessional use to those who are willing to meet the country's best conditions. That is why I will fully well-intentionedly ask some questions to the minister, and I expect this Parliament to inform on its views on these issues. First of all, I am interested in what Mr Ilic's position is, and thus the Government, since this is the Government's proposal, and not in the proposal of the Ministry of Capital Investments, to the fact that no feasibility study has been done for any of these proposed routes, none of these concessions. In accordance with Article 100. The law on planning and construction is necessary to establish, before this procedure is opened, anything that is necessary in order for an appropriate decision to be taken. This feasibility study has become an integral part of our lives, because until we got a feasibility study from the European Union, we were unable to take this formal step forward in the European Union's accession. A feasibility study is also needed for every time the state intends to work in any way, either as an investor, either by hiring a performer through a concession contract. So, for the route from Horgos to Novi Sad, from Novi Sad to Belgrade, from Belgrade to Požega, and for the route from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, as the Law on Planning and Construction said, it was necessary to first determine by those who are licensed to do so, capable of doing so, with which routes should these routes go? On that basis, it would be possible to determine how much it would cost. It is necessary to determine how much traffic traffic is planned by these routes, how much traffic is the frequency; how many cars, trucks, vehicles pass every day along the road from Subotica to Novi Sad, from Novi Sad to Belgrade, from Belgrade to Požega and from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. No one can predict and make a decision as to whether the cost-effectiveness of building these routes is likely, while we do not have one valid evidence of the extent of traffic on these roads. Of course, what is very important and doesn't always seem to be an important thing, and these are the environmental impacts that must also be an important element of the feasibility study. As far as I can see from the material attached to this assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia forwarded to this assembly a proposal for a concession decision, without having that feasibility study, although it is an explicit legal order. In 2003, the then government adopted a regulation that regulated the spatial plan, which concerns the spatial plan of this road corridor from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. As things stand, there are four possible routes that the road from Nis to Dimitrovgrad could go, so surely the minister here will inform parliament of why this very route that stands in the motion set before this parliament was chosen. Why not one of the other three paths? On the basis of which parameters the minister proposed to the government, and the government to this parliament to make this so-called. A hill or mountain path finds it right here in front of us? Then one real question that is confusing, which citizens, and we here expect to get an answer: how much can be seen from this project, the future concessionaire will be paid toll on the roads which are already finished and which the Republic of Serbia, of the money, of the taxpayers' money, has built. As far as I can see, the toll from Belgrade to Saturday should be paid, the toll now collected by the Department of Roads, i.e. the Ministry of Capital Investments, or the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to the one who gets the right to build a road from Subotica to Požega. If we adopt the Government's proposal, this parliament no longer has any effect on what kind of concession agreement will be concluded. We leave Serbia in the hands of the government and in the hands of Mr Ilic. I don't want anything bad to prejudge, I want to open the issue and they'll close the contract with the future contractor – that they determine when these works should start, that they determine how long the concessionaire will charge the toll from the roads that have already been completed by the taxpayers' money. The question I also want to ask Mr. Ilic is, why is there no suggestion that there is an entire highway, or all the way that should connect Belgrade with the southern Adriatic? Why just to Požega? What are we going to do from Požega to the Montenegrin border? What's the point of that now, Požega? I, by the way, love and have a lot of friends in Požega and Chaka, but why Požega? How am I going to explain when the government does something wrong, but there are several MPs from Šapca, one MP from G-17 plus, one from the DSS, or MPs from Valjev, how are they going to explain to their citizens why this Krak is not spreading towards Šapec and Valjev, but it's going to Požega?- I'm sorry. Of course, this is one example, and I suppose the minister will give an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15675	Excuse me, Mr. Petrovic, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15676	I'm using another 10 minutes. It's a very important decision and what we're going to do with Kragujevac. A large number of MPs with great interest expect an answer, and why Kragujevac would not have the highest traffic frequency, between one city and highway and Corridor 10, with the largest number of traffic accidents, with the least road safety, why there is no highway between Kragujevac and Belgrade. But, well, every populated place and every city in Serbia can ask this question, and that is why it is necessary first to do a feasibility study, so that every MP here and every citizen of Serbia can judge whether the government, the ministry and this parliament have made a good decision or not. The assembly will make one of the most important decisions in the vote today, which will affect the acceleration of Serbia's economic development or prevent the acceleration of Serbia's economic development. If Serbia makes bad decisions of this kind, if we fail to raise our infrastructure in the best possible way in as short a time as possible, we will not be able to join the EU as soon as possible. I would like to commend Minister Ilic for one statement and for one intention he made public a few days ago, which is: to clear the Sava River Stream, to open an artery of river streams and connect the country with large ports in Hamburg and with large sea ports in Western Europe. That's good and what's good to point out, and what a shadow of doubt exists must be properly discussed here. If we do not get answers to all these facts that are important, I call on this parliament not to take the risk of making a decision that will not be controlled. Then it won't be the Prime Minister's fault and it won't be Mr. Velimir Ilic's fault, but it'll be our fault. I wish, and I address, first and foremost, the Members of the ruling majority, that you have full awareness of it. There are close elections, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, ahead of making one of the decisions that will significantly affect how quickly we will introduce our country into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15677	A deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group, Dusan Prorokovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15678	Dear Minister, honourable MPs, I wish that the Serbian economy was at least similar to its level of development with some Scandinavian states so that we don't have to talk about concessions, but that our economy can finance the construction of road, railway and other infrastructures. Unfortunately, today we are where we are and I think we all agreed that, either through concessions or through credit borrowing, we have one way to get to better travel infrastructure. Concessions are being explored by the BOT model in this case, which I think is good, because countries that worked on other models did not have successful concessions or even canceled them because of some later developments. This model includes three components: construction, maintenance and use. Even in some Western European countries where there was no need for concession, they were called for, not because of a significant financial inflow, but because of problems with the maintenance of road infrastructure. It happened that the state needed to build something, manage it, and maintain it, there was a conflict of jurisdiction, there was a rapid decline of travel infrastructure, so the concessions were applied due to the double effect. The fact is, with us, the degree of infrastructure development is worse than in the environment. Serbia is late compared to the countries in the environment. The minister himself mentioned several examples. So, the construction of the Budapest-Split highway, then the Budapest-Tuzla-Luka Ploca railway route, is also announced by a large Western European consortium that would be able to build the Ionian-Adriatic Highway, which would bypass Serbia. We cannot deal with this, we cannot allow it, and this is one of the first steps Serbia is taking to reach its neighbours and to achieve its both strategic and national interest. Our strategic interest is to get to a better travel infrastructure is that we have a much higher degree of exchange of people, goods and services, a much higher frequency of traffic on our routes, a much higher employment of our business entities on construction operations, and our national interest is to import concessions, not only to the concessionaries of profitable and profitable travel routes. It is no secret that the Belgrade-Hungarian border route is profitable. Tomorrow we will find a concessionaire for that road route, but it is also no secret that the Belgrade-Pozega road route is very questionable whether it is worth it or not. But the Serbian national interest is to make the Ibar highway. The Serbian national interest is that it has a highway to Požega, thus linking traffic from Montenegro to Belgrade, traffic from Kosovo and Metohija to Belgrade. The Serbian national interest is that this issue is being reconsidered for several years, so that the road from Požega, respectively, from Cacak to Kosovo and from Požega to the Republic of Montenegro, will rise to an appropriate level. This is a great opportunity to engage our domestic production capacities and increase employment levels, and I think that our economy, primarily construction operations, has a great chance in the coming year. I agree with all previous speakers that we need full transparency, the full public in the work, because the issue of concessions, the determination of concessionaries, the determination of the price at which it will be done, was questionable in some countries in the environment. I don't think we should allow ourselves this luxury of reopening new affairs in Serbia, but we must not allow ourselves or that luxury to force foreign investors from Serbia. I would also disagree with the previous speaker. The issue of the project before the award of the concession is very discriminatory. You know what, maybe the concessionaire will have a much better technical solution than the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Serbia predicted. Maybe the concessionaire will find an excuse to build something, or his financial, technical, any other interest, and that was done in other countries as well. Also, the question of importing toll does not stand. You or you must allow the concessionary to extend the time of use of concessions on a specific direction, from 10 to 30 years old, to pay for the money invested, or you have to tie the routes, to allow him to collect tolls for many more miles, because you know what would happen in practice. Since the lower traffic frequency, on the Belgrade-Pozega road, would, for example, cost a toll from Požega to Cačka 600 dinars, and since there is a much higher traffic frequency from Novi Sad to Sudotica, that would cost tolls of 100 dinars. I don't see any logic here. This is how a double effect is achieved. The concessionaires' financial demands are met, and toll is equated on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. That is why the DSS will support this proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Capital Investment, with another call to make everything transparent and public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15679	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, application for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DS, DSS and SP-NS. I give my word on that list to the People's MP Milorad Belic, and the other on the list is the MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would not speak of the justification of the construction of the highway and of infrastructure at all, the infrastructure network through Serbia. In the opinion we received from the government, i.e. in the exhibition of Minister Ilic, it is quite clear that this is a strategic national interest. That is enough and as the old Latins say – smart enough. I would say something about what is happening in our districts where we come from, in our cities and environments, so I think quite differently than one of the predecessors who said that it would be one of the problems in some of the next choices that we as MPs explain why we voted for a concession, that is, for such a very important decision. You see, as far as the Kolubar County road network is concerned, last year the World Bank approved a loan to rehabilitate the road network in Serbia, and I am pleased to say that the Kolubar County got most of it, that they were happy to start and that we were just waiting for them to be more intense. It is, first of all, the rehabilitation of Valjevo-Shabac, Valjevo-Loznica and Loznica-Shabac. Of course, it wasn't accidentally obtained by Western Serbia, it's just one of the parts of Serbia where there are very bad roads, and all of us who are passing through and who need to go our Serbian ways know that there is a slightly better situation in other parts of Serbia as well. However, by building this highway to Požega, it will not pass the highway, as one of the speakers here recently alluded, through the city center, but about 20 kilometers from Valjev, and it will also be within a decent distance to meet all those requirements when building roads and other major cities, or centres. In particular, in the Valjev region, this highway, i.e. Valjevo, will practically have a connection about 20 kilometers from Valjev, somewhere around Slovec, which is still very important for other regions, and I said earlier that the rehabilitation of the Valjevo-Shabac and Valjevo-Loznica roads was done. I would like my fellow MPs coming right from those districts where this highway will pass explain to their voters why they would be against or why they were abstained today, that is, when it is the day of voting on granting consent, or I mean concessions. Why, for example, would my fellow MP from Požega or my fellow envoy from Lazarevec be, however, or from the Tamnavian district, and a recently respected colleague from the Mačvan County, why would he be against, why would he be held back? I would not only like to get the arguments of the guy we've already gotten used to – everything that comes from the ruling majority, it's not good, it's very suspicious, but I can understand certain reserves that are unquestionable, and they could be heard today, given that during the previous period of road construction it carried a series of abuses, i.e. involving the mafia. Dilema whether by giving consent, or by giving her vote for this concession, we will leave the fate of the whole job to the government, I don't think it stands, and it doesn't stand for a simple reason, because this government has so far shown that it has credibility, so I'm sure on Tuesday it will confirm it; it certainly won't be a job for those who did it in the past, I mean first of all, and the Chumeta, on Rushett, on Chad and the rest of the mob that appeared. There's no such thing on our roads now. We can talk about this with pleasure and for these reasons I call, first of all, fellow Members of Parliament who come from all these areas where this route will pass, i.e. the highway route, to give their voice when the day of the vote comes. As far as the SPO and NS parliamentary groups are concerned, understandably, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15681	The minister spoke, but before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15682	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I accept here every kind of discussion and debate, and arguments to defend the proposals and arguments against, but I cannot agree that a debate like this will go through in the Assembly without condemning the manner of the MPs to call on MPs whose seats the future route will pass as they must come out here and vote! Now I ask you, Mr. MP, why should those who do not go through who? You're making yourself some points here. Now you're from where the road is going to be made, so let's see if this one from the opposition that's from the same place, would he mind telling the people, no, this one didn't want to make the way for you. When you're building a road and going through 15 municipalities, there are 180 municipalities left that he hasn't passed. Never call those whose municipalities pass, that they must be for that journey. Find the reasons why those municipalities don't pass, that they'll be there for that trip. If you are already representing the minister who has the hands and the knife and the cake, you are defending his proposal in a much more argumentative way, because there are MPs in the SRS group whose municipalities will pass this highway. What do you want, to call them if they didn't vote, that's morality? You want to brag that your minister made his way through your place, and the SRS MP wouldn't vote for that trip. It's been so long. In this way neither Serbia nor good relations are being built. Leave it with a tiny chicken policy in the municipalities and tell them how you brought them, how you got them in the elections, so the minister defined the money, so he gave for several municipalities the money to build roads before the elections. It's not our manners. We have ideology, we have a program, when we're in, then we're in, when we're against, then we're against. We have arguments when we're "yes" and we have when we're "against," and you'll never hear an SRS MP say he's against building a road. I'm just asking that everything be absolutely clean and under control, and I don't trust it to be. Give me the right not to trust that everything will be clean, because it's not all clean in Serbia, or in that money, or in the collection of tolls, or in the project, it's not clean in anything. So I ask you to preserve the dignity of this assembly, that you do not address MPs who will vote "yes" or "no" that is not your right. I can now warn you how many wrong decisions you've voted for, and MPs don't call for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15683	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15684	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened to the leaders of the parties who will participate in the vote and I have some objections. I have to answer questions for further discussion, so things don't happen again. First, the presidents of the municipalities, and the constant potential – party – minister – parties, municipalities, construction, so I would like a president of the municipality to tell me that he asked for something, that it was justified, and that I did not meet it, regardless of which political options. I've been correct to all the presidents. You can't do it all at once. We don't have the American budget so we can do it all at once. He's going after some priority program. Now it's about the Sword, we'll go to Bosilegrad, we'll go to the South. It has been done as much in all parts of Serbia, at some priority, and the priority is set by the Road Directorate's Council, not by the minister. So it's true that there are always criminals and crime everywhere. There's that in telecommunications, in the roads, in the oil business and everywhere! It was and it was! We can't say now that we won't build until we root it out. We need to root out as much as we can. I've been trying to get some of these things out of the way that you've been discussing, and I've done it, but I can't do it all at once. I'm fighting, the others are deep roots. Stories that foreign companies will work, will bear a concession, but the condition in the concession is one -- that all labour and contractors will be from Serbia. Why to Požega, the question is this. You know well that Serbia has adopted the Space Plan of Serbia and predicted Belgrade - the South Adriatic, but only to Požega. From Požega further, the Space Plan has not been established, and for the design and adoption of the spatial plan it takes a period of at least a year. That procedure is ongoing. You know that we have two variants fought by experts and that we will have to choose one of the variants to enter into the adoption of a spatial plan. So, the spatial plan to Požega was adopted in the Serbian Parliament, not to Užica or elsewhere. It has been said that Belgrade-Bar investment was the most expensive in history. The track is always cheaper, at least double, Miniæ knows, than the highway. If it goes on the highway to Belgrade - Bar, it means, double investment will be made than the Belgrade-Bar railway. I don't trust the government. There's always a vote of confidence in the government every few months. It was a creature. We can't stop and wait for that process to end. It doesn't matter at all. This government is sure they'll get trust, and we'll move on. It's a normal process. International tenders. You know that all these concessions are in international tenders and that we cannot order those who invest money to exclude international bidders. What about our companies?- I'm sorry. We made a good consortium and he went through a tender for Beska. It's a big investment, and I hope that our performers will be wise enough to reunite with the big guy's consortiums, and they'll make it through. There's talk of a bridge at Beska for months. It's such nonsense; Marijan Risticevic finds some cracks there, and experts come out, they realize it's a "dilation" on the bridge and they write in an official report, those images that have appeared, that it's an integral part of the structure. If Marian's going to check the bridges, then we're really in a very difficult situation. Second, if the Danube fishermen are going to determine the height of the bridge to get down to fish better, then we're out in the open! Therefore, experts, international and our experts have agreed that the bridge must be a twin, and only in these conditions are funds approved today. Today is the signing of the contract, the international tender ends on 27 May, and after 27 May, it is decided who will be the contractor – who gives the best conditions. In Vojvodina to make a tunnel, you come to a bridge, or 30-metre cuts, it can only be imagined by someone, I don't know what kind of expert it is, but the fishermen have accepted that it's very important. Thirdly, where you would enter a lower bridge in Beshko, there is a huge glider. It's true that the lower the bridge, the cheaper it is. Recovering the rink costs more than building a bridge. It's a big slide that's headed for the Danube, and it's jeopardizing one of the pillars that's going to have to be rescheduled. Resuscitation of only that pillar and the sliding point of the existing bridge will cost more than 20m euros. Thus, building a tunnel in the ice-skating zone and in the rink itself, experts did not accept that they were even discussing it. However, we have one designer who is persistent. When he passed all the audits and commissions, when he lost all positions, he turned to the locals and fishermen from Beška; to come out to block the bridge and ask for his project to pass, and his project would not be financed by anyone. We can't do something that no one accepts in Europe. It's said it's not right that the concession goes handcuffed, because there's only one bridge in Vojvodina. Right, but that one's more expensive than all of Požega together, times two. So one but very expensive goes through the Danube. He's talking about whether the Ibar Highway needs to be a highway. Guys, that's the way of death, Ibar Highway! You know how many people a week you die there. A thousand people die annually on the roads, nearly 50% on Ibarska masteral, and 16,000 people with disabilities annually on Serbian roads!- I'm sorry. Therefore, whether or not to be required, the dilemma is gone. A feasibility study. Of course it's done. You have all the points where exactly the "numerous" traffic is. The biggest traffic in Ibarska masteral is near Lazaretsa - 16,000 currently, in Preljina - 8,000. There's been a study. Who would accept doing a concession without any indication? You know that well. My friend from the DS, I'd like to say - you're not an opposition in parliament. Your member is my deputy minister and you have two assistants with me at the Ministry. Miodrag Jocic was the deputy minister in the past and he remains now, I appreciate him as an expert. He is the President of the Commission for concessions and for studies. If you didn't know, you know. My assistant for rail traffic, (Boskovic), is an DS official. You know that well. Therefore, you in parliament are not opposition, you are in power. You have two assistants and one deputy at the Department of Capital Investments. Then, the project and all highway tests were conducted by the CIP and the Institute of Roads, which are among the most elite companies for this in Europe. A "influence" on the environment has been done; the Colubara area has been done, a general plan has been done, idea projects are being done, end of June, and a project of performance. Therefore, everything goes according to law and protocol. Gentlemen, I am a minister now, and I'm from what kind of party I am, it doesn't matter. Maybe she'll be big, maybe she'll be smaller, we'll see, there'll be more choices, but you who criticize me for what I'm doing, by yesterday you had your ministers right where I am and didn't do this. Well, what I thought we were doing, that's my problem now. Yours aren't. What didn't they do? As for Kragujevac, that you are a living and healthy gentleman from Šapac, the highway to Kragujevac has started working and three kilometers are already being worked, as many project documentation as there have been, and the rest is being designed. I expect we'll soon finish the highway from Kragujevac to Lapov. So, about three or four kilometers. It's true that it's a good thing to do Sava, because he's passing by the Whisper. We found the means and we'll work to make it watery. Someone else has to get the way. So it's not a good thing he's not going past the Whisper, and even if he was passing the highway by the Paws, it would be good. There's one right next to Capco, don't be mad. Secondly, it is true that three factors affect the concession: the price of toll, the number of cars and the number of years. If the toll price of the year rises, the number of cars can be reduced if the years rise. It's "makes" through concession acts. The European Union has set one condition - in 2007 a single toll across Europe. So all toll prices will be the same and that will be a great incentive for the development of the travel economy in Serbia. You asked why no documentation was provided for insight. Gentlemen, do you know that documentation for one highway can't fit into a truck? Anyone who wants to see can come to the CIP or the "Off" and take a look at the paperwork. It is also true that the highway to the sea will increase traffic in Vojvodina by 60%, as it will pull Europe's whole, Central Europe towards the Adriatic Sea. I repeat, if we say there are criminals in the country now, we suspect that the work will be and we always suspect something, the Croats will make the highway, the Bulgarians and Romanians will make it, and when we don't doubt no one will want to invest and no one will have any more interest in our highway. So if there are any more questions, I'd be happy to answer, but I think I've made myself very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15685	First, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Jankovic, the replica of Mr Belic, at the presentation of Mr Nikolic, and the replica of Mr Nikolic at the presentation of Minister Ilic. That's the order for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 100th that states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Unless the MPs do so, they are working directly against the interests of Serbian citizens. I expected after Mr. Minister's presentation that at least we would agree on something, which is that it is Serbia's interest to build corridors, to build roads. Obviously Serbian business, we didn't even agree here. A few days ago, I was able to stay with several MPs of the Republic Assembly in Albania, Tirana, at a tripartite meeting of parliamentarians from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Albania. Albanians have highlighted their strategic interest, building corridors from Drac to Nis, normally via Tirana and Pristina. The first question for all of you - do you think Albanian parliamentarians will argue about it and argue about whose village is a leg or a road going? Do you think they don't already have money for a piece of Durres to Pristina? So, while we're here persecuting ourselves they'll probably impose on the international community, you laugh, have fun, and then someone will always be guilty, the blame will be power. This government, this government has proposed this. If parliament does not believe, I would ask Mr. Minister to launch an initiative, immediately set up here some interparliamentary monitoring committee, to monitor, which, if necessary, will report to the Parliament regularly as long as it has arrived in the process, but mistrust in advance will only prevent us from doing what is right for the citizens of Serbia. So I'm asking you to at least agree on something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15687	Here you are, Mr. Belic, a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15688	I wouldn't really need to answer, but I feel like I'm being misread. Simply put, I had no intention of calling any of my fellow MPs here, absolutely, but isn't it quite natural that this part of the highway from Subotica, Novi Sad, Horgos to Požega, so wherever that share passes, it's natural that these people will vote for it? And it is also natural if, in the near future, we are in a position to vote for another corridor, or another part of Serbia, it is natural to agree again. I'll vote for it first if I get the chance. So now we're in a position to vote for what we've been offered, God will give us in some foreseeable future to be in a position to vote for something else and quite natural to vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15689	The replica of Mr. Nikolic to the presentation of Minister Ilic, then the replica of Mr. Avramov, because it is mentioned personally in the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first to respond to these remarks. If it's natural for those whose municipalities pass through, then it's unnatural for those who don't go through. That's how you put it. It's natural for everyone to vote for it, not for those who live there. What is more interesting is what Mr. Jankovic said, he introduced the MP if he expressed doubts about the people. He's still saying, if we don't vote this out, we're working against the people. You have a majority, so vote whatever you want, but if that's the understanding of democracy that we can't go out and say what we're against and what we're for, and you don't go out and tell us that we're against the people, then I won't live in such a democracy. Stop politics if that's how you understand democracy. If you interpret the coming out of the opposition messenger for a pay phone by working against the people, you know who is working against the people, the one whose hands are the levers of power, the one who can betray the state and the people. An MP who publicly declares his position against the people and gives you a round of applause from the MPs of the majority. It's like the times after which the "Sabbe" action was introduced. In the second part of his response to our remarks until the very end, the minister really looked like a minister, presented some of the data. In the end, he still lacked to raise his hands and kiss here with the elected MPs of the majority, but the beginning was in Mr. Ilic's manner. I remember Mr. Ilic lying in a dump in Chačka, he wouldn't let them do the work, not make him that dump! That was magnificent. He led the people, lay down in the way, so let's step on Veli Ilic. Now that the residents of Beska have objections to a adopted project that will be built, they cannot stop it, the minister says -- they are lying on the way to the fishermen. It's not right, Mr. Minister. Those who are against you and they are fighters for democracy, they are fighters for something better. You weren't the only one who fought when you were a fighter, and when you loaded it, whether it was a bulldozer or a buffer, and you groomed it from Cacko to Belgrade, that nobody would stop you, and when you slapped the police, there was data on the tapes – you weren't the only one who fought for democracy, Mr. Minister. How to change that understanding of the struggle for democracy as soon as they sit in the chair. Now whoever's against you is a fisherman. What's wrong with fishermen? Fishermen can fight for democracy. Not only do masters have to fight for democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15691	I join the support that it is not properly separated from hunting and fishing. Here you go, Mr. Avramov. You're mentioned in one of the exhibitions, when I wasn't there, names.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by chance I am in this House a folk MP, and also the president of the municipality of Shyd, where Mr. Minister said directly - let me speak to some president of the municipality whom I did not help, and he spoke to me for help. Mr. Minister visited our municipality of Shid incognito and unannounced, visited the border crossings, saw the border crossing of Shid-Tovarnik, which looks like the Middle Ages, said directly to the camera that it would help finish there without any of the municipal authorities talking to him. Although we addressed this issue in December 2004, we do not have an answer until today. Although the municipality was the only one devastated in Vojvodina, it gained courage, raised money to draw electricity, water and phone to the Shid-Tovarnik border crossing, which is about five to six kilometers away. We asked the Ministry of Capital Investment just to get us how much they're moving the border, because we know that the border is moving to the Shidus itself about 100-150 meters, and we didn't get it until today to run the power at that border crossing. By the way, the Shid municipality itself has seven border crossings. Of those seven, one is a railway, and the only border crossing that looks like a border crossing is Batrovci, who is also in reconstruction, who was in an international tender and received that certain gentlemen are doing the border crossing. For this Shid-Tovarnik, where we stand by, Mr. Minister has not even bid to say - he will be here and there, bring the electricity down to that point. We'll get the power right away, Mr. Minister. There, just so long as it's not that you've helped everyone, that you've done something to all the presidents of the municipality, like you said, but here you've just been through, and in doing nothing, and the border crossings are catastrophic, you know that yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15693	Thank you, Mr. Avramov. Keep an eye out for Shida. Here you go, Mr. Jankovic. Just one addition to the personal mention in Mr Nikolic's presentation, I understand, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15694	Thank you. Well, Mr. Nikolic is a great master in eloquence and interpretation of other people's words and twisting, but I think he just misread and misunderstood me. The interest of citizens is protected here when we agree on strategic issues and try to find a result, and protect the interest of all citizens and the state of Serbia. When strategic issues are on the agenda, then we have to make an effort towards a settlement, and where we differ, they're already party bickering, petty party, local interests. Please, here, especially the heads of Parliament's clubs that always have the common interest, the state interest and the interest of the citizens and the people of Serbia. And the party interests may be solved some other time in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15695	Thank you. I'm a living witness that's how it happens. Here you go, Mrs. Comic, you have a word, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15696	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Minister, I will begin by quoting your answer to our request to provide us with the documentation we consider necessary to have, so that we can decide on proposals for concessions to the National Assembly. You said you wanted the highway records? These are full rooms of project documentation. Ministers, there are objects called computers and they cost a lot of large rooms of various documents, and all it took was to enable the National Assembly on your Ministry's website, on the Government of Serbia's website, access to the Performance Study for every subject of concession, Project Documentation Study, Plane Documents, review of permits, commission reports and we would have no reason to look for what we think is missing in the cases that you are addressing the National Assembly for giving concessions for construction, maintenance and use of highways. I think we've lost a little sense of what we're deciding here. The National Assembly based on what it received from the Ministry, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Serbia decide to grant in concession. And never again and never again will there be a chance to track what happens to the tenders, what happens to the price, what happens to anything that's relatively vaguely written in the two documents that we've been given! So this is not about whether or not the slow giving of highways in a concession is a matter, because if you want to, you can only give the Assembly one proposal for a conclusion that reads - whether the National Assembly agrees to go in the concession process. But you've proposed two concessions here. One for building, maintaining and using the highway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad and the other for building, maintaining and using the highway from Horgos to Požega. On the remarks of the MPs that such jobs primarily require environmental impact analyses and sustainable development strategies, not only have there been no response to why there is no response and where it is if there is one, but also the reaction of most of our MPs as if it were irrelevant. In situations where you choose as the National Assembly to give a concession, the two necessary things you need to know are: "an analysis of the environmental impact, you are obliged by the Environmental Protection Act", which this assembly adopted, and "sustainability of the whole project", to which you are obliged by the Law on Planning and Construction, where the documents are - a study of eligibility, i.e. feasibility, planning documentation and all necessary documentation regarding the construction of a highway. Serbia is a country that does not have a strategy for traffic development, except that there is no national water strategy, fortunately has a national energy strategy, which is subject to criticism and which can be changed, but has brought this assembly, so it needs a national water strategy, a national sustainable development strategy and a national traffic development strategy. All that's gone and the normal way to give in concessions is to have those planning documents before that. Do not expect MPs, who read what they were given to be the subject of the decision, to be satisfied with one picture of the improvement, the employment, the good days to follow, just to start the concession, that is, that the National Assembly only decides on the concession, everything will be great. It's not good for whoever's representing this project in this way. It is not good because the deadlines you promise in such a way are very short and therefore unfulfilled. I'm asking you to go back to what it says in the discussion. So, for Horgos-Požega. What it says in the concession proposal is -- (E-763) Belgrade-Pozega, (E-75) Horgos-Novi Sad and (E-75) Novi Sad-Belgrade. The object of the concession for Belgrade-Pozega says "the financing, designing, construction, use and maintenance of part of the E-763 highway from Belgrade to Požega in the length of 140km". The case you delivered to us states: "The creation of an idea project is under way and only after its verification by the Republic of Revision Commission will the final route of the highway be defined. "You can either inform us that this is no longer true, or don't react to a normal question -- and where is the idea project. I wish it was on some computer, I wouldn't bother you, I'd go and look at the document that exists, if it exists. Horgos-Novi Sad: financing, designing, building, using and maintaining part of the highway E-75 from Horgos to Novi Sad in the length of 108 kilometers, and financing, designing, building, using and maintaining the left lane from Horgos to Novi Sad in the length of 108 kilometers; and using and maintaining the existing right lane from Horgos to Novi Sad in the length of 108 kilometers. There's no additional paperwork. There are standards to maintain, and we need conditions and strategies, and the use is known what is. It's a charge for being a concession on the way. Thirdly, Novi Sad – Belgrade: Using and maintaining part of the highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade in the length of 68km: use by the end of 2008, i.e. until the end of construction financed by the Republic of Serbia from international loans; use and maintenance until 2009. So, the only readable and clear data is from what the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided to the MPs, that the use and maintenance of the shares of Novi Sad - Belgrade is foreseen by the end of 2008, and since 2009. It's the only clear amount of money. It is about 30m euros a year. We don't argue that in the concession, it's normal for anyone you want to build roads to give them to use. It must then be written here, because it is assumed that only the concession agreement will be the subject of mutual obligations between the government of the Republic of Serbia and those who earn 30m euros per year from the share of the Novi Sad-Belgrade road, and otherwise in Serbia is the only part of any highway from which you can collect pure profits, and there is also a chapter in the history of Serbia's traffic called "Borovica Trade". What adds to the confusion is an assessment of eligibility and the level of investment. You now have a situation to propose a concession decision where it says there is no documentation, but it says 23m euros are foreseen for land expropriation. What land? According to documentation that will only be made when the audit committee approves it. Projecting and monitoring 33m euros. I can understand that. The tender will go for the project and you need to give some money to control, as I understand it, and it is building 575m euros. Here you get the most interesting figure, in all these concessions, the 5m-euro highway is on average, regardless of whether it's shares one or the other, regardless of how it says in the second proposal to give concessions for building, maintaining and using highways from Nis to Dimitrovgrad which of the two, or which of the four variants will be in play. Here you have for land expropriation 8m euros, for designing and monitoring 15m euros and for building a 527m-euro highway. That's what it says in the document that we MPs have to decide on. We're not asking for anything else, but to explain to us where the prior documentation is needed to give consent to such a matter of concession, or a proposal to grant a concession. I will go back to two topics that I started with: environmental impact analysis and sustainable development. When in the strategy of transport and the sustainable development strategy you plan the roadways, then you plan them to meet both conditions. I don't want to doubt at all that in the future sustainable development strategy, Belgrade -- Požega as an E-763 -- is really part of that that will balance regional development. It may seem so, it doesn't have to, so there are documents we can turn to and check by standards whether the idea of building Belgrade's path - Požega what contributes to sustainable development in Serbia and more uniform regional development. Environmental impact analysis is a serious document. Unfortunately for me, I often hear ridicule and shake hands – I'm missing the environment, as I hear a general state of ignorance where an analysis of the environmental impact and pollution is equated. It's two different things, like two different things, debauchery and pollution. For both topics, the minister had to inform the National Assembly if he wanted to speak seriously with the MPs. I repeat, it's not about criticizing the idea of giving concessions on the construction of highways or anything else. I'll give you another example, if it can be a complication, it's about selling the Book of Mercy. I have no intention of commenting on the circumstances surrounding this sale, but the fact that we don't have a national water strategy. So, for the source of mineral water "Knjiz Miloš", you do not have a study of renewableness, i.e. the exhaustion of the source. You are right, and every future government and this government to reach the owners and say, "Good afternoon, you know, you could no longer exploit this source, we're dealing with it as a state, because we need to calculate the exhaustion of our natural mineral, mild mineral or drinking groundwaters as part of our national water strategy. If we all want Serbia to live much better as soon as possible, if we all want to really do our jobs, then I ask you once again to understand and talk about what is written in these papers. What is written, not enough, is that Belgrade highway - Novi Sad will once again go to someone's profit without investment and in that sense the amendment tabled by the AP Vojvodina Assembly is unfortunately not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but quite justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15697	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic, sorry, sorry, first Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15698	Today we have a point on the agenda that needs to meet several needs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so let's take a turn. The first need to be met is to justify why the three ministries are in one ministry. You remember, a year and a half ago there was talk here about it, we're putting three ministries together into one so there's no problem with project documentation, so that the more effective they're in building roads in total development, capital investment, and so on. Another need to be met, it is that the government is in some way "insinuating" something in front of a session on which the issue of trust should be placed on the agenda. The third thing to be satisfied, when it comes to government, is to disabling those MPs who are also presidents of municipalities, who are in some way in a geographical natural connection with these corridors that are subject to concessions. Of course, here the problem arises exactly as a member of the ruling coalition said it, some imaginary unity, development, national interests and so on. Now that these documents are looked at, because this can't be called otherwise, what the government representatives have submitted, then first they have to remove some inaccuracies that stand in the stenogram. First, the government didn't make a decision on this document that we have here, but the government said very nicely, here, that it provides us with a proposal to grant concessions for building, using and maintaining the highway of one and the highway of the other. So there's no government decision, because according to the concession law at this stage, decisions are not made. But let's see what the obligation is and what the jurisdiction of the Republic Assembly is. The National Assembly, as set out in this proposal for a conclusion, should decide, that is to say, to decide on the basis of Articles 7 and 6 respectively. The concession law. I'll read to you what those points of view are: attitude 6. - "If the object of the concession is construction, maintenance and use of the objects referred to in Article 5, the point is stated as far as the road is concerned, among other things... "this legislation has strategic significance for the Republic or international importance, the proposal to grant concessions is submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia"; item 7. - "On the position of the proposal to grant concessions under Article 6, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall notify the Government no later than three months from the date of receipt of the proposal, which shall be notified by the Government to the applicant of the proposal." Now, if you take it and look at when we got it in the Assembly, January 31, 2005, and you'll see February 10, 2005, when you take today's date, you'll see that the latest deadline in which we are obliged to inform the government is up. I'm saying this because there's always a call here about how we respect the government, we swear by the law, it doesn't move by the hair. So we have to realize that there is one injury. If the government finds it not her fault, then it accuses the parliamentary assembly majority. Do not honor the MPs of the SRS, for it is not up to us to hold a debate in this assembly, especially how the agenda will be formed! Let's move on. So today we need to adopt something that's an attitude. What is the legal nature of that attitude? That stance does not oblige the government of the Republic of Serbia at all. This attitude is not binding, i.e. the content of that attitude is not binding. So if we say here today -- the National Assembly has taken the view that "this is no good," the government can move on. If we say that this is "the best that can exist", the government can stop and not go any further with the concession, but the government has transferred the ball over these strange cameras so that the audience who is watching this thinks it's up to here, that the MPs are the ones who release the water and it's up to them whether there's gonna be concessions or not! If we have discussed this and agreed that this is not up to us and that these presidents of the municipalities should not be afraid of how they will vote, because someone has called them here, and someone has even hurried that they are signing on how to extend to Uzica there, whether through Pribo, left or right or right, there, the public must understand that it is a simple political manipulation of those who are in power, because they want the MPs of the opposition to drag into something that is exclusively the right of the government and the competent minister of the ministry. The law states that when we take a position on this issue, then it is delivered to the government, and the government is notifying the motion, so the government of Vojislav Kostunica will inform the Ministry of Capital Investments. But, look at the irony of the larger, the government's representative on this agenda, the minister of capital investment; the exact same as when Natasa Micic was texting with her, while she was V.D. The president of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly. It's in a whole series of these media delusions that are being used. And then, if I read what the title is -- a proposal to give concessions for construction, use and maintenance, and so on, then I have to read one MP of the ruling coalition that just came out here and gave us a lecture on how best it is if the concession is given by this system, so here he said what he's covering, I have to tell you that it's also defined by law, and that system includes "build-use-and-go". We've got a building-use-maintenance here, but nowhere to turn. There's no handouts in either of your proposals. Here this already indicates that there was a great speed when this proposal was drawn up, something was thick! Something urgent had to be done. If we take this for you the most significant concession, which goes from Horgos to Požega, then I must say that in the text of your proposal to give this concession on the first page, at the end, it is clearly suggested that it is a concession, which will be given to a stranger. Also, when determining the subject-matter of the concession, he had in mind the interest of the Republic of Serbia to build a highway and so on, on the one hand, economic justification, and in the previous one he said - building a highway through concessions has the advantage of allowing for the inflow of foreign capital. Please, at this stage of this concession procedure, no one has the right to determine, suggest, define or associate what kind of capital it will be. Why? Because he forbids the concession law. The concession law says it is equal participation of all, so domestics can. Let me remind you, the law has to be read. I do not like this Law on concessions, to tell you the truth, but this concrete provision that regulates what is a foreign person is acceptable, so it says that – a foreign person, within the meaning of this law, is a foreign legal person based abroad, a foreign natural person, a citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro with a residence, i.e. a residence abroad (this can already be recognised something) for more than a year. Some countries practice the fact that residents and non-residents determine how many days they live in a country. Already this suggests that there are some talks, there are some preparations, but the concession law says the proposal can be submitted by the competent ministry. The department can address any interested person with an initiative. We have no idea whether an interested person has spoken, nor has it been written here, nor has the Government's representative said in the opening statement who is particularly interested in these concessions. Before we move on to this to remove another flaw, inaccuracy, maybe even ignorance. Is there going to be a country to give a concession? Believe me, maybe the least depends on the economic situation in that country. And the richest states with the biggest budgets give concessions to build. The economic situation in the country is not only defining as a factor that decides what to do and how to do it. Our country probably doesn't have access to international investment funds, to be in charge as a government. Perhaps, and finally, Jelasic is right after two years of warning. He made it clear the other day that the debt crisis is threatening us, dangerous, devastating, likely to destroy our country's budget and that the funds should be sought otherwise, not through the state, but through consortiums of domestic, domestic and foreign investors. But we need someone to convince us to bring that attitude. There is no word in this documentation, no one here has convinced us, and even some chart to give us, to tell us, the situation, the accumulation in the country is that and so on, the investment from domestic sources cannot, therefore, and so on, etc. In order to wake you up a little bit, since we worked late this morning, or early, a few hundred kilometers of highway, whoever gets an exclusive right to work, let him steal only one inch in the thickness of the highway. He's probably by stealing all the regional roads in one county. I present this comparison to you only to understand the amount of funds that are in play and why there is great interest in making strategic decisions now in the near fall of government, i.e. prejudge strategic decisions. So, pay attention to that too, because when you add up the thickness of the asphalt, the length of the asphalt, and the width of the asphalt, you get the cubicity, when the cubicity is multiplied by something, so you see how many times that would go in a kilometer of highway, you're going to get very impressive information about dozens of millions of euros that go by paperwork, and there they are. Furthermore, I think that at this stage of thinking about concessions, because this phase, we needed to take a stand on whether the government went a good path to provide us with some data, we don't need projects, because those of us who deal with politics don't care, but, let's say, with these, there are some things in the very text of the proposal that are illogical. Please, I'm talking about this Horgos-Pozega, it's like this: "The section of the highway from Belgrade to Požega characterises extremely high investment costs. Assuming that total revenues are formed only from toll collection even with a maximum possible 30-year concession and a minimum concession fee to the Republic," (which is 2% of total revenue) "the internal return rate of funds – the IRR would not be acceptable to the potential investor-concessionaire". So it's known in advance if someone is given the right to use 30 years, charges, and a small concession fee to the state, he couldn't get his investment out again?- I'm sorry. The naive man believes that it may be so, but then he turns the page three and sees – the indicative duration of the carriage, where he says: "The object concession according to the Law can be given for up to 30 years. It is proposed that the duration of the concession be 20 years" So here in the introduction we are told, even though it would be given for 30 years, (it would not be interesting for someone) and here it is proposed for 20 years. You see, in the meantime, there's a hole that's hiding, covering. Now, you see how those who caught this job working came up with it, with this in mind, it is proposed to include in the concession a share of the highway from which the concessionary would start immediately after the duration of the concession to collect revenue from the toll. This means that it is practically given something that this country did, by borrowing abroad loans, so why not also tell the budgets from previous years. That may be the most characteristic when you look at the subject matter of the concession. You see, this is where one of the items of concession is given, from lot to lot, from stock to stock. See, Lot 1 – says: financing, designing, building, using and maintaining the left bar; then it says: using and maintaining the existing right bar. There's no funding from the city, there isn't, there's going to be an immediate start-up fee. Practically, if a stranger enters this business, he will have the character of foreign investment. When it comes to foreign investment, it retains the rights in respect of which it guarantees the law at the time of the conclusion of the contract, and has the right to transfer funds, to reinvest and probably on the basis of reinvestment, it will continue its own investment. We don't know how long it's gonna take, because at this stage of the process, you don't know it, because you don't even know where the course is going. Furthermore, Lot 2 – says: financing, designing and building, use and maintenance; and this second one, only – use and maintenance. Furthermore, LOT 3 says: use by the end of 2008; use and maintenance since 2009. So by the end of 2008, the concessionaire is just picking up income. Let's see, who bought some companies here that could play that part of the domestic economy involved in the concession, allegedly, of a foreign person. You see, we have a situation now, I'm taking pictures with one, and I'm working with another. I'm sending the public a picture of one, and secretly with the other. It's a familiar manner. Before that secret until it broke in, it was Chume. You know for yourself, Chume a little bit and says (as that protected witness), please take me to my construction site and then the security goes, everyone goes, follows him there to control and see if he's doing it. You know that saying about snakes and lizards, and I'm not ready to raise my hand for a proposal like this so the citizens don't realize we're the same. No one gave me guarantees that this would be all correct, honest, honest, and I have no reason to believe it would be that way, because our experience is completely different. Of course, SRS MPs must express their position not to be concessions in this country. Our attitude is not that we do not need roads, no, our attitude is – and we need roads, and we need concessions, but to think about it well, to see what is most interesting and for those who invest their resources and what are guarantees to that investor and us. It's a similar situation with the highway from Trupal to Proseko, where the concessionaire is also given something that exists. It takes about four kilometers to finish there, up to that average. Next, on many roads, a share of these highways will be a real problem to create a cross-section, and for what? Some things were done by the state, and there were some concessions from another person or perhaps other persons, and that should be discussed. To relax Members of Parliament, however you vote, you are not responsible for the concession that will be carried out. So that's where I completely release you from any responsibility, because even Vlahovic when he wrote this law, he introduced this provision to ask the National Assembly only the reform. So, that the Assembly is giving a position, but the position of the National Assembly is not a binding position, it is just information, what the city is, and MPs as representatives of the citizens of what they think of the idea, how this idea will end. Maybe in this country, two, three or more people know. The other nobody knows. Why doesn't anyone know? Because you don't know the right shares, the right locations, you don't know what the concession act will be. You don't know how much it's gonna cost, you don't know where to find the resources. You can't tell if more than one of them logs in and there's an objection, because that's what the concession law provides. So there's a lot of things you don't know. Since many things are not known, then MPs have no responsibility for the ultimate effect of an idea called a concession to build a highway. Since the parliamentary majority is counting on this to pass, I would recommend that you multiply the concession law, that you have in your hand, because if something goes wrong, then we will call you from the opposition as direct accomplices to this. Why? Because we warned you in time what could happen with these concessions. Let me tell you one thing, it's not like it's all the same to the citizens of Serbia whether our football team participates in the World Cup. Of course we want our team to participate in the football championship, but Serbian citizens can object to the composition of the team, why this player plays, and not the better player. I think the biggest problem with this concession is the team. Take care of the composition of the team, because little or no affair after the affair, the newspaper has raised the circulation via "Knjiza Miloša", "Erikson", those islands. It's possible this is where the money from those islands turns. It is possible that the new head of the road company, which buys out across Serbia, will be not only a contractor but also a real and real investor, in order to overtake its mortal competitor. Let the tycoons fight, it's their business, we don't get into it, but let's respect the law. Do not use these agenda points for a failed promotion. According to this law and the fact that it's been three months, we don't need to give a stand, we don't have the right to take a stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15699	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15700	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr Minister, loved or not loved, wanted or not wanted, wanted or not wanted, but Serbia has traveled its way towards the European community, to the community of European countries and to a better and more perspective. Of course, that route can be speeded up from this pay phone, and also, with the same pay phone and the will of the MPs, it can slow down that path. From us here, our conscience and consciousness depends on when we will and will, in what time, reach the countries of the European community, to Europe. Are we going to provide our citizens with a better life, or are we going to camp as we are now, or, if any of them think, they're going to be in the situation we used to be in? I don't think there's any political structure, there's no political authority, and there's no individual who can bring history back at this point. Serbia is on its way, heading towards the European Union. Of course, what's for one organism's bloodstream, it's for one country's travel infrastructure. What would be an artery in one organism is in one country a freeway, and what would be veins and capillaries in one organism is regional and local roads. No good infrastructure, no good roads, no country development. The only question is how and how a country can achieve good travel infrastructure. It would be best if it could do so with its means, if it could build and, of course, then use everything that's good, i.e. Use the toll. We are sure that at this moment in the devastated economy of Serbia, Serbia is in no condition to do so. Other options are credits, but it also says that Serbia is an overindebted country and that it is not worth doing these roads through credit lines. The third way is concessions. We loved or didn't like concessions, whether we wanted or not, we were forced to accept them at the moment. I'm also sure that no concessionaire invests funds without thinking about making a profit out of it. That's normal. The basic question here is: what are we going to do with our road infrastructure, if we are not able to build road infrastructure with our resources, if we are not able to get credit lines and what do we get if we don't do the road infrastructure? We don't get anything, but that's why we lose a lot. If we want Serbia's youth to remain here, that Serbia's youth doesn't leave our country, if we don't want to be a country of old, sick and weary people, and if we want Serbia's youth back on the fast roads and quality roads to Serbia, then, of course, like all well-intentioned people, we will accept that by concession as soon as possible and make the infrastructure. These freeways of the sea and should bring the West together with Southeast Europe and the southeast of the world. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have much choice. We can only here speed up the wheel of history that has been launched and faster, cheaper, simpler ways to reach the European Union, or some of our "compromised" ways of thinking to try to make this point of history and, at the very least, Serbia's development slow down in some way. Everything in Serbia can be criticised today and it is not controversial to criticise, but it is difficult to praise something. We can talk as much as we want today, but we only have to choose the path that will bring Serbia's youth back to Serbia, which will allow the economy in Serbia to develop, create new jobs and finally take the place that we deserve, and that place is in the European community. That is why New Serbia's MPs, and I expect other MPs to vote for this concession law and allow Serbia and Serbia's citizens to have a better and brighter future tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15701	The People's MP Milovan Markovic has the word, and let MP Miodrag Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15702	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, Mr Minister, cannot vote for the National Assembly's conclusion on a proposal to grant concessions for the construction of proposed highway shares, but do not replace the thesis. Not because we think that highways in Serbia can be built from their own resources, not because we think Serbia does not need modern traffic and not because we do not think that this is a chance for us to enter Europe infrastructureally as well. I guess the Democratic Party has first and foremost installed in its programme, in its behaviour, in its very European value in all segments, even here. It sounds very demagogue here when those who criticize these attitudes come out and say -- when we're going to build roads, we have to do it, why are you against, I don't know what already the arguments are used. We are witnessing that Mr. Velimir Ilic himself was opening works on some of the routes of the Belgrade Corridor -- the southern Adriatic, and I am not sure that there is a final choice of the route today. These are some problems which, I'm not saying, are ad hoc solutions or that someone has deliberately forgotten or bypassed to solve them, but don't let the National Assembly make a conclusion and giving consent based on this proposal be the only one responsible or the first one responsible for doing one job in the most qualitative way. It is not possible that the proposal was not familiar with the provision of Article 7. The law on concessions, what should be essentially the proposal to grant concessions. It clearly states that, in addition to the subject matter of the concession, the content of the proposal should also be an assessment of the eligibility of investments and the level of these investments. Here is just one example that this was not done in one comprehensive way and that the National Assembly cannot (the ambassadors of the Democratic Party are of this position) bring one relevant court whether this was done in a quality way. There's no detailed regulation plan, there's no spatial plan for those parts where the highways cross. So there's no point in saying that it was possible to do an elaborate of expropriation based on which we could estimate what the cost of expropriating the land for the construction of the highway. Both include 8m-euro figures, 23m euros, and it is clear that these costs go to the concessionaires. Whether it will be 23m euros or 8m euros or a whole other figure is not irrelevant to the conditions under which the concession is given, it is not irrelevant to determine the period on which the concession is given. Of course it's very important data. Even when it comes to the share of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad road, one of the four proposed corridors has not been chosen in a clear way. It has already been said here that the Law on Planning and Construction has been violated. When the minister said in his replica that there was a previous feasibility study, I believe he knows that it does not contain only a traffic assessment, and that it is not serious enough when the minister says there is a huge traffic jam, that a large number of cars pass. So let's not think that it would be enough for the minister to, as Marian Risticevic said, explain this proposal for a concession decision. This must be the result of a more professional and contentful examination. It is not only a traffic assessment contained in a previous feasibility study, but much of what is defined in the concession law. When it comes to the proposal to grant concessions for the Nis-Dimitrovgrad road share, there is, above all, a lack of planning and technical documentation. The law has been broken in many ways, as it is simply not respected by the members of the laws which provide for the methodology, the content of the previous feasibility study which would be one relevant information for the provision of data to Members of the public. As has been said here to the Government who has not made any statement here about this argument and this proposal that becomes an integral part of the conclusion that the Assembly is to make today. Once again, I would like to stress that we should not replace the issues and explain here that MPs of the Democratic Party and MPs who will not vote because of the proposal to give consent to concessions do not understand the state of the infrastructure and the travel network of Serbia. That's not true, and that's one rough manipulation. I would like to hear the explanation of those who have indicated in the proposal, and one of the previous debaters has also said that, if the concession were only given to the Belgrade-Pozega section for the longest period, at the highest bearable prices for the road, it is difficult for someone to accept such a concession. If we present some estimates in front of the Assembly, then let us say that someone might accept the Horgos-Belgrade section to do a complete Belgrade-South Adriatic corridor. Does anyone have any information that this isn't possible? Does the minister have an answer to that? Just like you from the place you throw that there is, so anyone can pass by, and so can that fisherman or someone else to say that this bridge is good or bad. It must be contained in the concession proposal in any other way than it stands here. It is clear here, when it comes to Horgos-Pozega's share, that certain costs, which by the end of the Belgrade-Novi Sad share, along with the Beška bridge, go to the burden of further borrowing, credit borrowing of the Serbian state, and that a potential concessionaire is starting to charge the toll from the day he closes the concession agreement. Those aren't small funds. It has already been said that it is on an annual level for the share of the road around 30m euros. At the age of 25, it is almost as much as the cost of building the Belgrade-Pozega stock and ending the Horgos-Novi Sad stock. On the other hand, on the part of the Horgos-Novi road, land expropriation costs fall on the burden of the Republic of Serbia. As if a concession was made, I'm not going to say that it is, and I'm not going to say that anyone has done something in a way that can be suspected of some bad intention, but it's obvious that as shown in the text of the concession proposal, it remains an opportunity to act in various ways. That parts of the cost and the task of completing the stake are left to the state of Serbia. To get into a very good job, to have a finished facility of the Horgos road to Belgrade immediately available and to collect significant revenues. So I don't think this text of the proposal gives enough data to convince us. You as a promoter and a government that has not declared yourself before this came into the assembly procedure, whether this proposal is sufficiently valid to see the justification for granting concessions under these conditions. It's not a question of yes or no. Whether the state of Serbia, whether the assembly and parliament agree that roads or concrete highways are built under concessions is not disputed. It stands here under what conditions, on which time limit the estimated costs and these data are very unargumented. I am afraid that this ministry or this government, and perhaps another government, will then make decisions like this, and I hope that it will (as someone said this government is in a minute to 12 before the vote of confidence in it itself) should not make such important proposals before this parliament. We must bear in mind that when we make such important conclusions, they must be made contentually. Someone will use the concession law on one side, and on the other hand an unsettled proposal on concessions, the Assembly's conclusion, and through concessions, an act may have done something that this assembly did not have in mind or did not want to do when MPs voted on such a conclusion. Let's not talk about MPs being committed to such important issues on the basis of whether they are part of a position or opposition. It really doesn't matter, but I have the impression that those who make up the parliamentary majority in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia don't care enough whether everything the competent ministries suggest has a complete argument. There, if you will, in one of these proposals, and a full legal basis, monitoring and respect for the law, and that may be the price of what is the essence of the formation of such a congregational majority and of this kind of division of power today in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Each party belongs in unlimited powers to its ministry, and that it can simply work the way the minister and the ministry and the party think it is most comprehensive for them. The Democratic Party will not vote for such conclusions as proposed by the concession. From all the reasons that we have said, we believe that this can be done in a fundamental and quality way, that the reasons for the proposal can be far more content, more argumentative and more precise and that then we could all make a better decision together in Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15703	The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15704	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to remind you briefly that the concession law, in the previous term of this assembly, is the only law that has been brought down. Do you know why? For the participation of Vojvodina in concession income. The moment Vojvodina settled, the law returned and was adopted, it means with significantly more favourable percentages than for the rest of Serbia. Therefore, the Vojvodina of concessions gets much more than the rest, but I don't blame them. What I want to point out is that concessions in this country, with a situation like this, are the only development resource in terms of roads and infrastructure at all. Let me remind you that Governor Jelasic, the other day, did a little pessimistically announce the possibility of even bankruptcy. I don't believe it, because I know that growth in economic activity will be even more than 5% as inevitable as it is to service debts to abroad. But the fact is that concessions will be the only development resource we can repair our infrastructure with. Now that it is, these are now the first concessions that ever appear and suddenly, here, for a wonderful miracle, unusual resistance. Why? So let's analyze them a little bit. They said there is no record, so there is no feasibility study, so there is no study of costs and benefits, or income, so it is not worked out whether the route will go this way or that, or the fourth channel, and now what we want. We want to make fun of each other. And do you know what this distraction leads to? Let's lose another chance. Unfortunately, I strongly object to the previous authorities for losing the southern leg of corridor 10. Do you know what that leg meant for southern Serbia? The only possibility to move forward in its development and reach the rest of Serbia, as more than 40% behind Serbia's average. That southern leg of corridor 10 is lost. I can make such or such structures, but one is basic -- precisely because of such a distraction and, perhaps even the desire to punish southern Serbia because it does not vote for who it should vote for. Now there's something else. And this one leg of corridor 10, which, you see, we can lose within three years if we continue in the same way that we get in the way, to fight and not work rationally. This country is being irrational over its head. This country is looking for definitely determined people, who will move forward and do something for it. That poor southern leg of corridor 10, I can't help but talk about it, because we MPs, at least a few of us, in the previous term tried with Minister Rushet even in writing to schedule a meeting to negotiate with her, but she didn't do us any good. This ministry and this government, if nothing else, were, at least with extreme efforts, "turned" the existing path, and the last moment or turning point for that "South Leg", when we lost it, it was clear to the previous government, was the "Olympics" in Greece. It's deliberately obstructed! We'll never get it again. Corridor 10 isn't just a road. There's the railway, there's the entire infrastructure, there's the optical cables, there's the pipeline, there's the high voltage installations, all the things that need to pull the development of one end, especially the kind of neighborhood that's south of Serbia. Therefore, in this case someone said -- it will be this parliament's fault. Yes, it is. He's making a decision. But what about the guilt of incendiary, because the incendiary gives much worse and harder results than when it goes forward and does something. Normally, we from New Serbia and New Serbia's parliamentary club and the SPO will strongly advocate that these concessions come to life and pave the way for the next concessions as the only development resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15705	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let Bajram Omeragic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15706	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the National Assembly concession law, with opposition from the SRS parliamentary group, adopted on 27 May 2003. I have a lot of information to give you, but my colleagues expect to use something to discuss our opposition to this kind of concession. So we then had a clear answer to the question of whether one country, and especially Serbia, was required to give concessions for building highways, any direction, although three directions are defined here. We were saying what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said today, that river traffic (especially one study done by a group of experts from the SRS as regards the South Sea basin to Vardar) is a very important strategic project for Serbia. If the state is hearing and we have energy and knowledge, that is, if the Government is willing to engage in such a thing. We are now coming up with a question of cost-effectiveness, or a law on concessions, which I mentioned was then voted, the concept of concession has been defined. Perhaps then unknown to many of our citizens, what it is and how there is even a concession from the Republic government to the future beneficiary of the concession. This system - build, use and hand it over to a limited duration. In this case, today I'm telling you that the data that people have undoubtedly come to from the portfolio, (financial data is in question) people who follow the work of the Republic Roads Directorate, are irrefutable data that tell us that the cost of the toll is a key thing here, greater than the total investment to give these concessions. The information that speaks for 2003 on how much the toll is charged is 4,860,923,234,97 dinars. As the traffic frequency grew and the toll price changed in 2004 was 6,960,898,021,47 dinars. This is one table that, by stock and financial obligations, or by parameters how much it costs us, and how much we get from the toll collection, we can undoubtedly conclude from that table that the revenue in 2004 is significantly increased by 43.20% on all shares, especially when it comes to the share of Belgrade-Shid, where the amount is almost doubled. When it comes to the direction of Novi Sad, (because from Belgrade to Novi Sad we have a closed system and half-opened to Horgos) there is an increase of 77.53%. It is also said that some fellow MPs have mentioned when it comes to the direction towards Dimitrovgrad and the question of mountainous terrain and configuration, but also these others defined to Požega and Horgos, what is the average for building kilometers of highways. I can't agree with one of the incorrect data that's been released here, because precisely at the time Mr Dragan Todorovic of the SRS was the minister of traffic in the Republic government, he's unequivocally talking about the estimated value of road construction, which depends on the accompanying infrastructure, from $2.5 to $10 million. It is a very flexible term and it is also a very discriminatory question about the overall evaluation of the expropriation that has been defined here with eightm euros. We are coming up with what is resented by the SRS when it comes to the concession law, because now it is a direct consequence of the grant of a concession and the existence of such a law. We can't, and we couldn't agree on the way the tender commission was educated. I have to tell Mr. Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments, or whatever it's called, that the concession wasn't invented the moment you came to Kostunica's government and that it was something the SRS has advocated since its founding. And here we are now getting information, (and the data unequivocally, Mr. Minister, is saying) that all these data are parallel, and it's really a lot, and I can't, they're exact. Therefore, it is the data from the people in charge of the business, that the total income by 2020 is in all these existing directions, from where the state could invest more than the total amount of investment planned. By 2020, as experts have calculated, that would be 640m euros. I must remind you of the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, at the end of the year, agreed to a concession for the direction towards Dimitrovgrad. The essence of the concession must be in a well-intentioned choice and the definition of what is the subject of the concession. It's defined here. However, the law and way of education of the tender commission now leads me to one conclusion. Minister Velimir Ilic is in a certain coalition agreement with one of the biggest robbers and thieves and a man who is completely unscrupulous to Bogoljub Karic, and today you are almost the same time that this idiot and thief came before the Serbian Parliament and you joined the Assembly. It leads me to the conclusion, as it says that the tender commission can in its designation that there are also persons of exceptional financial, legal, technical and other areas, because this only declared politician and expert for all, but above all, a thief, one of the leading criminals, may have offered to be in that business. I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, that you stopped when you've already reached capital investments and what really needs to be a capital investment for a country like the subject of these concessions, a miracle you didn't go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to tell us if you've determined, to this day, what the value of Mobtel is. On the other hand, what is evident from all this data, and especially because, say, Horgos - Novi Sad, as a semi-road through this open toll system, brings an average of about eight million euros a year, and so much is estimated this suspicious estimated amount of expropriation. Total cost of 640 million, I repeat, by 2020. Then why did the state resort to it, or why it is your project, and it is not as decided in the case of Kragujevac - Lapovo or Lapovo - Kragujevac, that the state enters the project. By the way, by the way, about 300 meters there started working on this second tape, and for the rest of it, we'll see, because all those promises that, by that year and that year, we'll have the same toll price in 2007. I believe that this government will not survive until then, but in order to advocate such a thing, and we already have the European electricity price and many other life-forms, we will also have the European insurance price, and now tolls, then the elemental conditions for ensuring that citizens have at least 1,500, 000 euros in salary average. Not that they're told there's going to be new layoffs! We are indeed a land with a fallen economy and a million unemployed. Now, since these are the actual data that I've brought to the public, all citizens are going to ask themselves, why is this amount of the increasing collection of toll collection income not used to build these directions that are defined? It is very discussionable, in which way the tender commission, in other words, will work, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that toll collection is a key thing and that there is just more cost-effectiveness, it also brings consent to these concessions. One of the greatest strategic potentials for electricity will almost be donated to someone and can be exploited. How's that actually going? If the capital price is 5% of the total value, the cost is about 16 years old. If it's 6%, then it's up to 18 years old, and if it's free of charge, it's due to prices like this and the fact that this kind of income is collected. We cannot agree with everything that is in favour of giving us a concession, and we want the road infrastructure in our country to be built, said Minister Ilic – especially because he will try in the next period, until the vote of no confidence to this government, and he himself said all governments are changing and ministers, and therefore you will soon pick things up from this capital ministry. So we cannot agree with that assessment that this was the only way to start Serbia's economy and that the way concessions will be given is what is most worthwhile for the state of Serbia. People who have done this comparative analysis and worked on data to the greatest extent possible, and above all, the people who are from the SRS professional team are before the assessment (as are our MPs present here) that in this way, in fact, it is another new robbery that is taking place and will take place in the sight of Serbian citizens. Far from being able to raise the earth, or to employ a construction operation, and to employ people. We are advocates of this and that the entire Serbian potential without thieving, without corruption, without the robbery must be used best. At least you know that there are none among Serbian radicals, which can be said to be, that at any time, he has tried not to let God sew. All of this other talk, the famous performances of individual community presidents, and especially those from your party, is a petty squeezing on a Serbian political scene that cannot benefit more than one term. You have an example with us in the Shumadian County, you have an example in many other cities of Serbia. Then when you are voted out of confidence and you are no longer in a situation where you give hands and hats to your people, conditionally speaking, to your party's members in pre-election campaigns, and only where they received and you acted as if it were your grandfather and your private property, so you give it to whoever you need, we have the example and the case in Kragujevac, so long as the whole Serbian political scene and such important issues are not to be found consensus, and above all in the Assembly that gives consent to something that is a capital project, or how someone said a colossal project and these proportions in Serbia, it will not be good for the citizens of Serbia. Because of what I've said, and that's only one part, my colleagues will continue, we can't agree on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15707	The word has a folk MP, Bajram Omeragic, and let Aleksandar Radosavljevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15708	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, I must say that I look forward to the construction of roads in our country and that concessions are not something we apply. It is something that is applied throughout Europe and in far more developed countries than it is ours. What I want to say here, which is that I am glad that this road and that route will reach Požega, that we have one route to Nis and that on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia we can connect a network of all the parallel roads to those highways, because simply and economists and engineers and all those who are involved in development know that without a travel network there is no accelerated economic development. That concession will be like this or something. I think it's important that we get the roads. I speak for the reason I come from a region that has almost the worst roads in the country, and I want to say that when that highway reaches Požega, the citizens of our region hope that it will move further towards Montenegro through the cave highlands. In some expert analyses that have been made, it says it would be the shortest version towards Montenegro, to be shorter than another existing version by 45km. Simply, a whole series of municipalities of both Kraljena and Raška and Novi Pazar and Sjenica and Tutina and Prijepolje were connected, and thus the entire region went into one accelerated development. The other day we were talking about tourism here. You know that in our region there are many historical monuments and Christian and Islamic cultures, and today we have almost the worst roads, we have tourist tours that come to see both "Sopocans" and "Leilek" mosque and all our monuments down there, and that buses don't actually have to wait for some shares to pass, I don't know how long, and that's why I have to say that the citizens of our region should have the hope that this further "step" will go through "the caves", because it's the cheapest version, because it's the area with the highest rate of emigration and the Serbian and Bosniak population. We also have a cave high, which can produce food, feed not only our country, but much more, to be exporters of the healthiest food and this product that we need to export to the sea and everywhere in the world should be the momentum of the development of our entire region. So I'm saying that she's looking forward to starting with concessions and I just want to say that the government should consider the situation in which our region is located, because the travel networks in our region are really almost the worst in the country. Why should he go further than Pozega towards the Cave? Exactly because of the 45km shorter route and because it should not be built by the first estimates of experts, no bridge or any tunnel. Therefore, it would be quick to work here, and it would simply be cheaper and shorter. What I want to mention here, because these days I have received many letters and many citizens from our region, I have to point out, since the minister is here, to a difficult situation that exists on the road between Novi Pazar and Tutin. We have six narrow throats that cause very dangerous situations, where it's just almost one of the worst roads in our country. That's why I want to draw attention to the minister to come with his experts to visit this road and do something as soon as possible, so that the problem can be solved in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15709	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, to be clear, the DS does not dispute the award of a concession, but we believe that this proposed document, or two documents, is not good because they do not show it on the basis of which a 550m-euro investment eligibility assessment has been carried out in the concession proposal, when we know very well that there is no justification study previously, when the final variant of the highway corridor is not known. Also, for expropriation purposes, a sum of eightm euros is listed, which is certainly not possible to predict without the previously selected final variant and prepared detailed plans. If a proposal for a concession is adopted here in the National Assembly, conditions are created for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resorient Ministry of Capital Investments, to continue with the necessary concession procedure beyond any control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will certainly create a number of major problems and long-term obligations that will arise for the Republic of Serbia. I repeat again and remind the DS does not dispute the need to build the said highway or the need to award a concession for its construction, but we believe that breaking the legal procedure is something we have in this case in particular. With the unilateral approach of the Resolute Ministry of Capital Investments, we are closer to the variant of proposals being withdrawn in the Assembly. This means, above all, the final appearance, i.e. the necessary documentation, the planning documentation, and in particular the eligibility studies for these two projects. Construction of the Horgos-Pože is not clear. Construction of Horgos-Požega direction is proposed, and we avoid or do not want to realize that this is about two different routes. The stake from Saturday to Belgrade, the E-75 highway and the section of Požega to Belgrade is only part of the highway, or Corridor of Belgrade-South Adriatic. That is how they want to cover up shortcomings in which there is justification for concessions for the highway from Belgrade to Požega. Also, the DS asks, which is why the Ministry of Capital Investments is not planning concessions across the Belgrade highway -- "South Adriatic", but only to Požega. The proposal for a concession has also defined the final route from Belgrade to Požega. How, then, and on the basis of which, the bill was carried out and it was estimated that 23m euros should be allocated for expropriation purposes. These are all questions that have not been defined in these proposals. But I would refer to a few of the findings the minister had in his presentation, and I'm sorry that he came out, but at least I hope that his associates will pass it on to him, and it refers to the Council of the Republic Roads Directorate. A part of my colleagues is here, and I'm sorry that the president of the Traffic and Connection Committee of the National Assembly is not present today. We had a session of the Traffic and Communications Committee last week, got a report from the Republic Road Directorate. What we asked as MPs is that it delivers a report on plans and funding for all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. When we asked what about the plans for 2005, we received a clear and loud answer from the representatives of the Republic Road Directorate that there are no plans for 2005. Imagine, May moon, here's another day on the run, the Council of the Republic Roads Directorate, which is the only one authorized to propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia plans has not delivered a plan for 2005. It's something we find extremely inadmissible. Also, the minister mentioned building a highway from Kragujevac to Batocina, not to Lapov, to be extremely precise. Here's Lapovci getting angry, it's the bigger dispute there is, but I have to remind you that these works have been standing since September of the month. So then the town of Kragujevac started with an idea that exists for 20 and more years to join the town of Kragujevac on Corridor X (ix) and then had a plan to practically break it with the Republic of Serbia, or with the state of Serbia, dinar by dinar, but since September, the new city government and one of the nearest associates of the Secretary-General all of it and decide to move into a concession. Then before the committees here, and there is a councilman and the City of Kragujevac Assembly, the main expert comes out, who in his inspiration explains that this is a good proposal, how the Kragujevac will finally, imagine, the main expert says, says – Kragujevac will finally come out on Corridor X (ix). Such is the city's power in Kragujevac and it is the best co-worker of the Resort Minister After that finding that Kragujevac will come out on Corridor X (ix), I really had nothing to say. I know that in one 200 years we will go out to Corridor X (ix) with such a plan and with such a mayor in Kragujevac and with such a resolute minister, but once again, it was a far better variant that Kragujevac continued to build on that plan that was defined during 2003 and 2004, and he knows that once even the Minister of Public Kragujevci addressed and said that he supported the idea that Kragujevac and Republika Srpska would invest together and that the problem would be resolved. When you have someone who estimates from the eye, who makes the conclusions himself, and if he thinks that everything he imagines and wants to realize that it's extremely economically justified, when you show him that there are studies and that still some people who have some calling have done a projection and said that it has to be respected in the way they predict, he simply fails. And, then, we have a situation that the Kragujevac has been standing at the beginning of the project for a year now, and the question is when will this project end? I dearly appreciate the fact that the resolute minister once and for all the time of the doubt that exists in the public of Shumadia has removed it. Finally, he admitted that there was documentation for the construction of the Kragujevac-Batocin highway, i.e. Lapovo. That's how we solved this problem, too, but once again I want to point out that as DS is concerned there are serious concerns here, and we don't think concessions are something bad, but there's a lot of things that are unclear and that we haven't received from the resolution ministry and the government as explanations for the proposals mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15711	The word has a People's MP Vladan Vukicevic, a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course every middle in Serbia is crying out for good infrastructure. Kragujevac is one of the closed cities or a city that is somehow isolated from good roads. It is true that there was a project that was discovered or existed 30 years ago to build the Kragujevac-Batočina-Lapovo highway, but in the past 30 years no one has started building the highway. What, as a New Serbia MP, a citizen of Kragujevac, a council member of the Kragujevac City Assembly, I must say, and for the sake of truth and citizens of Kragujevac, after 20 and a change of years, almost 30 years of the existence of a single project, "the first" that started building the highway, is precisely the Ministry of Capital Investments headed by Mr. Minister Velimir Ilic. So, no matter what the moment when we started building that road to power in the town of Kragujevac was the Democratic Party, and what exactly do I want to say? I would like to say that the Ministry of Capital Investments has not been committed to its people and to a certain structure of government, but to the needs of citizens in a particular environment. Kragujevac needs it over the road, as he connects it with Corridor 10, although at that time New Serbia was not in power, but DS. We made a pre-election promise, and everyone has promised it over the past 20 and 30 years, the start of that highway started. It is also true that at this point the construction of the highway was started, stopped, and it is true that the new city government estimated that it was better to build this road through concessions. We felt in the City Assembly that it was better to build it with our resources for the employment of our people, for the employment of our factories and for cheaper tolls, tomorrow for our citizens. What I would like to point out once again, the Ministry of Capital Investments led by Velimir Ilic was never committed to his people, but wanted to help the environment, so even though we were not in power at that time, we started and I was the initiator of all this, it was he who asked Velimir Ilic to meet with the people of the DS and that the sooner we started building, because it was the need of the citizens of Kragujevac, and the interest of the people of Kragujevac. So, for the truth's sake, I think that way will have to continue, that it's something that the Kragujevac defines and opens the Kragujevac. Of course, we from the Ministry of Capital Investments and myself, as a committee member and MP at the National Assembly, will surely be pushing for other road infrastructures to be built along that highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15713	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15714	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I replicate my fellow Radosavljevic, since he mentioned the council members of the Kragujevac City Assembly. In the City of Kragujevac Assembly, I am president of the SRS parliamentary group, and for the sake of truth, I need to tell you what happened in the City Assembly two months ago. Namely, in one part of the exhibition, counterpart Vukevic was right. His intentions may have been honorable, and now he can't properly appreciate Mr. Velimir Ilic, but he will realize that he needs it and it's their party thing. As for the projects in September of the month, they had a range in the area of the Great Field, for which Mr. Vukevic advocated, the asphalting of the streets and the construction of the road network, to call it that. It is a village near Kragujevac, or peripheral settlement. The deal was then made by Dr Vladan Vukevic with Minister Ilic. What happened later? This project of building the Kragujevac highway - Lapovo is strategically important not for the town of Kragujevac, and I really don't want it here, I just took the opportunity (never did it by any SRS MP, nor by a councilman in the municipality, let alone an MP here) to speak in that kind of local patriotic sense. It's just a matter of work. I'm telling you this because I failed, speaking of these concessions, to present the information brought out by experts from the MUP, from the Republic Traffic Police, that the second, unfortunately, by the frequency of accidents and the deaths of our citizens, after the Ibar Highway, which is almost even with the direction of Belgrade - Novi Sad, is exactly the move Kragujevac - Lapovo. That is why it is important for the whole country, and also for the strategic direction itself, to move forward with the construction of that share less than 30 kilometers. But what happened? Minister Ilic came in and signed a protocol on co-operation. Later, Mr. Vucic's role in all this, the newly elected mayor, simply forgot. There's been another conflict in that relationship, and with the papers, it cares. Today, if you start from Batocina, or Lapova, as clearly defined that direction, to Kragujevac, you will see that there are almost no works. Then the question arises where is Velimir Ilic's role in all of this. Why does the Serbian government keep quiet when 87 council members of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, with the participation of the SRS (for the sake of interest not only of the City of Kragujevac, but of this very dangerous direction of Lapovo-Kragujevac), decided that the government would declare whether the minister would respect the signed contract and co-operation protocol with the City of Kragujevac. It is a joint investment in a proportion that should have been more favourable in favour of the City of Kragujevac. Because of the overall economic situation there, many items in the Republic of Serbia's budget can shift funds for such a thing. So the question arises that the government of the Republic of Serbia declares itself and sends the City of Kragujevac and its assembly an answer whether it will go to a concession or continue to invest. We, the representatives of the SRS, have asked for it to be much more favourable and that the city does not have to allocate so much funds, but the republican budget, through savings elsewhere. Actually, that's the whole truth. Today the minister said on the way that the work would continue, but when? We all have to agree with that, (and you who go through that share, and the citizens who do it every day, and we MPs from that area and those who walk towards their houses, and pass through Lapovo – Kragujevac) that they must continue to build that share. We don't have a clear answer when it's going to be, not by any means, not by any means, or when it's planning to finish and why it's given up, possibly, from giving consent to the concession on that part. If the Government has given up, (for we too have a question of side roads, that is, the exits of farmers and rural areas in that direction) the question of whether there should be a concession or whether to continue to invest. Now we need a clear answer with which dynamics are going and when that part of the highway will be completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15715	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe me, I am so sorry that this item of the agenda wasn't two or two or a half months ago. At the time, I didn't know many things that I know now, and I'd probably look quite differently at that point. Meanwhile, there was that tender at Belgrade Airport for the cargoterminal. Meanwhile, besides the rest, the minister was caught with his hands in the jam in the affair, so today I'm looking a little differently at this and I've been reading the material a little more seriously. I don't have time, since there are a lot of speakers in the ranks of the SRS, to explain everything in detail. I will try to explain only one segment and return the discussion on the subject spoken by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS MP. First of all, in order not to stay longer, he told us that from Albania to Nis, then Europe, etc. This Mr. Misko wanted to get us into Europe, though, via Albania, and through Austria, through the Herc Company! I think half the MPs know about this affair, but we won't talk about it. Why concession, why not public works? In order to be public works, the state must have at least part of the capital. For the state, it is much more favourable and much simpler to organise public works, as it employs domestic resources, domestic building operations, employs a huge number of unemployed workers. Just since the Bulldozer was a revolution, I don't mean Mr. Velija Ilic's bulldozer, but the bulldozer whose October revolution came to power, since then, so far over 900,000 people have lost their jobs. So, domestic potentials would be involved, companies that monitor construction. I mean cement, crep, iron, etc. The toll money would stay with the state. The state gives unsecured concessions, the concessionaire builds well, uses it in the concession contract within the scheduled time limit and then returns it back to the state. It's usually a multi-year exploitation. We said the toll price is determined by the concessionaire. He's one of the speakers, and I don't want to mention his name so he doesn't have to give him the right to a replica, and he said, "Then we'll have cheaper tolls." That's not true, gentlemen. Putharines will be equaled with Europe. And 100 euros is a toll from Strasbourg I don't know which place there, so we're taking a detour. Even they go around and it's expensive for them. Therefore, Serbian citizens must know that on these roads built by concessionaries they will pay for the European toll. On the other hand, the money from the concession that would go into the budget goes exclusively into consumption. This money will certainly not provide any new job. Some new Kumes will surely be engaged from domestic investors, (because I hear that Miskovic sold his construction operation) a new Chume or a new Karic will be engaged, (as he has not yet seen himself in the field, he has looked everywhere, from music to banking and to art). Now let's get back to this part. Why is this concession first divided into three lotes and this fourth lot going from Nis to Dimitrovgrad? The first lot of Belgrade - Požega is fine. There's no road built and a concessionary needs to be arranged. I see the concessions are 20 plus 10 years, plus the question is how much longer. This does not only account for what the concessionaire invested in the construction of roads, because in the construction of roads it builds and infrastructure, it means pumps, hotels, motels and collects funds from it. However, these two other parts are very problematic, i.e. Horgos - Novi Sad, where half the highway was built. So another half would be built and the state would already charge toll on that part and profit from it. The most problematic part of this segment is what concerns the Nis-Dimitrovgrad road. The highway was built here, from Novi Sad to Belgrade, that is, from Belgrade to Slankamen. There's only a few miles left from Slancamen to Novi Sad to connect. There's nothing a concessionist can build here, there's nothing to do but get on toll ramps right away and start charging fat tolls. In five years, 103m euros and by 2020 that would mean 640m euros. If we look at how much it costs to build these other Lots, it turns out that only from that income, which otherwise the state collects, could be made a road to Požega. The same case is with the road, with a section of the road from the payment ramp of the so-called so-called. Troupal woods, 18 kilometers of highways were built. I still don't know how much, but the state still gives 18 kilometers of good done to use it immediately and to charge toll immediately. I have to cut short, because there are several other MPs from my party, but that this data is correct, here's the financial data from the toll collection department of the Republic Roads Directorate, where it's said that in 2003 there were 4,860,923,000 dinars, that in 2004, there were 6,960,890,000 dinars, that the increase in income was 43%. You can see on all the roads that income increases drastically, because use increases drastically. That means that this number that I was talking about, that the state can collect, is not this big, it's far bigger. So think about it, gentlemen, when you vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15717	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word, and the People's Messenger Alexander Djordjevic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15718	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I think the undivided position of all of us in the National Assembly, as well as, I am convinced, all citizens of Serbia, that Serbia is urgently needed to build a new road network, including the routes through the corridors we are discussing today. Obviously, in the congregation today, we will divide about how to build these highways. Given the overall economic opportunity in Serbia, I belong to the majority in this House who today will vote to resolve this problem in the way proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by these concession decisions, because for me they are the arguments that have been given in the light of these decisions. What Minister Ilic said in his opening statement, sufficiently valid arguments, that highways through Serbia are being built this way by giving concessions. I didn't come out to praise it, but I came out to take this opportunity to appeal to something else from this pay phone, which is to ask Minister Ilic, his ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia and all other competent institutions, not to stop at what we're deciding here today, and what I am confident to vote on, but to continue this business of building the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway with a second stage of building the highway from Požega to the Montenegrin border. There have already been words about it here through several speeches. Mr. Minister has properly explained why this job is done in stages. I accept those arguments, too. There were also talks that there are two possible variations, two corridors of the highway from Pozega to the Montenegrin border. We just heard a colleague pleading for a variant of the construction of the highway across the cave high, and I came out here to appeal on behalf of 270 thousand citizens from seven municipalities of Western Serbia that this direction of the future highway should be directed across Užica, Zlatibor and further through Polimlje to the border with Montenegro. All arguments are in favor of this thesis and this variant, except that this cave variant is about 40 or 50 kilometers shorter. I'm not gonna waste my time making those arguments this time. Behind these arguments, the signatures cost 14 MPs of this National Assembly who belong to all the political options in this assembly. That's what six Western Serbian municipalities presidents are looking for. Soon all municipalities in the area will make decisions that will seek and support this thesis, and we will prepare a small elaborate that will be delivered to the competent institutions in which we make arguments in favour of this claim. Although economic arguments, they say in the long run that this is a better variant, I believe that the roads are not only made to make them more economically justified and more cost-effective. Roads, including highways, are made to connect people, to connect settlements, economic and other resources. These are the defining factors that say that the section of the highway from Požega to Montenegro should be made by that corridor that I call the Goldibor-Polymic Corridor. For this reason, I appeal once again to the ministry and to all the competent institutions to proceed immediately with preparations to build this second phase of the highway from Belgrade to the South Adriatic, and to this variant as we have proposed, and we will deliver all relevant facts to this variant. I am convinced that this way, through concessions and this variant to the Adriatic, it will come on the highway much faster than can be realistically expected, than we probably do here, and our citizens are expecting, considering the economic situation in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15719	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave to the National Assembly to grant concessions for construction, use and maintenance of highway routes (on which my colleagues from the SRS came out with exact and clear figures), says something different from what Mr Velimir Ilic, defending this proposal, spoke to the minister of capital investment, Mr Velimir Ilic. The main issue in Serbia is not only that these roads in Serbia have to work because it is something that not only gives us conditions, because Serbia is primarily a transit country and we know very well what meeting the travel network is in and what state the state roads in the Republic are in, but here things are set upside down. The essence of the whole story for this speaker of MPs of the ruling coalition was that we had to do so, etc. The SRS had a clear programme in the pre-election campaign when decisions are this important, especially when it comes to a national strategy on state roads, on public roads. In fact, things are upside down here. The concession law exists, it was passed by the previous government, but it did not take care of the national strategy. You can't say that in this year and a half you couldn't prepare a clear bill. It has entered the congregation procedure, when it comes to the law on public roads, but it has not yet come to the Assembly's agenda, and we will probably discuss it at one of the next sessions. No, and it shouldn't be when someone talks from the ruling coalition that he takes his own right to advocate entering Europe and the like. Serbia is in Europe and it will always be there, and no one will ever be able to move it from those positions. The essence of this proposal proposed by the government to the National Assembly is that things are completely upside down. I understand the minister's fiery speech, which said a lot about this speaker when it comes to the state of public roads in Serbia. But when it comes to the proposal for concessions, it has little more importance and we need to have a clear strategy when you propose such a proposal to the Assembly. It's obvious the government didn't have a clear concept and a program. In her programme and performances, the SRS has always advocated public works. Of course, it's a very important order of all these moves to us, and it has to be different. It must be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. So when we talk about giving concessions for construction, using and maintaining the highway from Horgos to Požega, that's 140 kilometers of road from Horgos to Požega. When we talk about LOT 2: Horgos-Novi Now 108 kilometers and Novi Sad-Belgrade, it's about 68 kilometers by station. It's a huge job, and of course we're basically in favour of calling public works, we're in favour but with a clear programme and a clear concept. What we cannot support and accept in this proposal is precisely the essence and system that the government has proposed to the National Assembly to grant concessions for construction, use, maintenance of the highway from Horgos to Požega. If we talk about LOT 1 and LOT 2 or LOT 3, we can say that when all the exact figures that my fellow MPs have put out are going to be carried out in a way clearly planned by giving concessions in this way and that there will be great national potential (which is very important to say about this speaker) that it will go to the benefit of the future concessionaire. What each of us needs to be important, that's exactly the basic conclusion of these two government proposals. A simple, fair and well-intentioned Serbian host in the position of the Minister of Capital Investments would easily discover a simple calculation, that the two shares mentioned (for example LOT 2 and LOT 3 when talking about Horgos-Novi Sad, or Novi Sad-Belgrade) without giving concessions can finance their own construction. The proposed build-up package of the third stake of LOT 1 Belgrade-Pozega, in other words, if the National Assembly is to achieve hundreds of millions of euros in concession related to these three shares, according to the proposal, the future concessionary will build a highway on the said Horgos-Pozega and in the concession period without any investment of his own using this manner exclusively endowed Serbian national potential. It is precisely that the Government and the Ministry of Capital Investment, as part of that Government, did not have a clear concept, given that when it comes to this pay phone and such important strategic decisions that the National Assembly, which are of great importance to the lives of all Serbian citizens, would employ several hundred thousand workers, building regulations and so on, is undeniable -- you have called on some institutes in Serbia that are capable of doing so, such as the Institute of Roads or the CIP, and we have never denied it. The point is the way you suggested it to the National Assembly, i.e. This proposal has been set up on some principles that are contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. If it's about us being a transit country, the government had to have exactly a program and a national strategy on how to solve all these problems. It is impossible to tell us now that we must do this because the EU has told us, either the Council of Europe, or the Council of Ministers, that the meetings are now etc. What have you been doing for the past year and a half? Well, after the first hundred days of government, you had to have results in this particular area. Of course, you should have had results, but after a year and a half you're going out with a proposal to make a decision in the concession assembly for all of these routes. Why didn't you do it when you came to power? You should have had a clear concept of government. The point is that the government did not have any public roads programme in Serbia. If it is Serbia, and it is, a transit country, you had to have a clear program. The SRS has a clear program, and we would have done this a long time ago if we were in your situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15721	Thank you. Here you are, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15722	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will use the remaining few minutes for the DS on this agenda point to look briefly at what our position is on the proposal to grant concessions. In fact, we can't vote for this proposal. I'd like you to answer some questions we asked three or four months ago. First of all, I have to explain to you and the public why we are not voting for this decision. The DS fully supports this way of building infrastructure in Serbia. There's nothing here for us... Are you telling me something? Mr. Minister, you were an MP. There are some rules of conduct here, and you need to stick to them. I'll try one nice way to tell you what we think and you can laugh and comment on what you want. I think we all agree that we live in a time burdened by affairs, suspicions, accusations. There's no public figure that's somehow not dragged through the mud. Just our political, public life, a conscience on very low branches. In this situation, anyone who wants to deal with public affairs, and above all, politicians, who have the greatest responsibilities, which are politicians of the executive government, must do everything to avoid any possible doubt about the quality of their work, their integrity or their purpose, their integrity, their regularity and their usefulness for the state. In that sense, we have asked you some questions regarding your proposal. We believe that this proposal is not adequately made up. We believe that it is not in accordance with the law, that there is no valid documentation. We suspect the method that you've come up with 550 million. We have to admit that we don't understand how you know that eight million euros are needed to expropriate, etc. We therefore suggest that this debate be postponed until the moment you have valid documentation, or if you have this valid documentation, you do not present it. Not so many of us, MPs, (because our parliamentary group cannot act decisively in this House, since we are a minority, that we are opposition) but because of you, because of the public. It's a job that's going to be done for a long time, and it's not worth it for the next five years or it doesn't matter, someone's talking about it all the time, and there's Velja Ilic, I don't know, doing it like this or whatever. I honestly don't think there's any need for that, and I don't doubt your work or your good intentions. As far as your, uh, funny and inspired performance was concerned with the role of DS, I assure you that DS is an opposition. If this ruling majority decides to at least a little respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and puts a vote on the government's confidence in the agenda and debate on it, you will see for yourself, we will criticise both your work and the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we will vote for no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have no doubt that we are the opposition, but that the DS members are your close associates, that speaks in favor of the DS, that is, above all, the quality offered by DS, but in addition to you, because you are obviously a man who can recognize quality and I welcome it. You are indeed in this sense a rare one in the government of Vojislav Kostunica who, as a kind of secret program, has a fight against the DS. As for the second subject and my application to you, it is, the MPs of the DS, Milovan Markovic and Milan Stanimirovic, who asked the parliamentary questions to you, and you, as a former MP in this House and proven Democrats, may not be familiar with this, here, now I would like to introduce you and ask you that, in accordance with good parliamentary practice and democratic principles, answer us these questions. I will not read them now, these issues concern the operations of the Ministry of Capital Investment and a certain debt that exists towards companies which, on the other hand, are taxpayers and must settle their tax obligations. Then, regarding the construction of certain roads during the campaign for local elections, when we believe that what is not in the ministry's jurisdiction has been done, and all in the role of your party's campaign for local elections. We are particularly interested in the realization of a pre-election promise relating to "legalisation" with some of the total costs that should be, I don't know, five euros per square. We're also interested in how many squares are really legalized at this price. I think it's good information for citizens, and they know where they can legalize by "five euros" per square, because I think it's far more favourable than what's now in place. What is particularly interested in my colleagues who have raised these parliamentary questions is the lawless construction on the Kopalnik, and that is not your responsibility, in terms of emerging as a problem, but it is the responsibility of the government both of these and the previous, and also of future governments in terms of introducing legal flows. In the meantime, something else happened, so I'd like to ask you (so you don't give in writing) to answer the questions, or to give us an explanation of one of your decisions in public. I'm building up here because I'm also familiar with the media's means about her, which should be called mandatory instruction. It refers to the application of the Law on Planning and Construction, in the end it does not matter in the case of which the law applies, and it is a nonsensical case, because I believe that the Minister and the Executive Authority cannot give instructions or any other acts, including the regulation, which is the highest act that can be adopted, that it cannot suspend the provisions of the law. I'm sure you agree with me here, because otherwise you wouldn't be involved in politics, these are some basic positions for every politician. It's a request from our MP club to answer these questions. You do not have to respect our proposal, which is that this is to be postponed until the necessary documentation is made, precisely for the reasons I have stated, in order to at least in one segment, and a very important job for all of us and the state of Serbia, to remove any shadow of doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15723	Here you go, Mr. Rankic. Let MP Miljko Cevrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, Mr Velimir Ilic, said in his opening statement that we must, among other things, implement these concessions and because of our obligations to Corridor 10. I don't know who it is or what obligations he has imposed on us, and you should have introduced the MPs to it. I'm just aware that the great deal, Corridor 10, is passing through our territory. What about our commitment to Corridor 10? I don't know who determines who we are or how? You said something that concerned me, very, as a national MP, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, which is, above all, that our credit rating has fallen to only 80m euros for roads, which is also, if it is for roads, disastrous! We had to have a greater credit ability that those funds that were allocated to the roads in the previous period were invested in a meaningful way and that they showed results without showing results, you can see for yourself if you were on the highway from Belgrade to Nis, where last year the works on the reconstruction of August were done and where, already, this year, apparently, August was damaged, that it was unqualityly done. Since no one has answered for it, and no one has written about it, I suppose that also affects our creditworthiness to this extent. There's something else I have to say about what I didn't understand when you said the Croats were working on the fast highway of Budapest - Split. I don't see how you connect it to, possibly, our concessions. These are not complementary roads, and I can't believe you think that if someone wants to leave Budapest to go to Split and that they have done that highway right now, they'll get to Požega and then from Požega go to Split?- I'm sorry. These are roads that are independent of each other and those who want to go to the middle Adriatic will use the highway when built by Croats for Split. If we do this part of the highway, it will be used by those who have plans, first of all, to move along this section. However, this concession, when it comes to Belgrade - Pozega, simply brings me to a "blind street". I expect you to be somewhere when it starts with these works in Meljak, for example, (it would be quite convenient for the Saric Motel to have any domestic and foreign spies know what is ahead of them on the road) to set up that traffic sign that indicates that it is a dead end and that there will be no movement beyond one section! This also shows relations in the State Community, how you could not, even after the great pressures of the European Union, harmonize relations between Member States and come up with a common concept, where a common concession would be called, that at least that highway would have its purpose, i.e. to connect Corridor 10 to the southern Adriatic. Like this, that road will come to a particular section and then stop, and it doesn't matter where it goes. This is where the lost leg of Corridor 10 was mentioned, and I also didn't understand it, and I don't know how to lose that Krak. We may not have done it, and we may have done it in some future period. I'm sure he's not lost. Whenever we do, that southern leg of Corridor 10 will be in its position and those interested in moving it, of course, will be able to move, only if you don't think because of such a government policy that the share that passes through the "South Leg" of the Republic of Serbia in that case and in such a way that we have lost it, and which God forbid would be devastating for the state of Serbia and its citizens! I can't believe it, although I suppose the Assembly will give a positive decision to grant concessions, that you will succeed in doing anything, because I explained why this credit quality of ours is so small and that it's done unqualityly; but also because you're in a pre-election campaign for local elections, for example. Had a candidate for the president of the Bor municipality. There, just before the elections, you let the stock of the Bor-Zaječar road finish through Nikoličev, where you said it would be over in a month, you promoted the media and your candidate, and after two days you picked up the machines and left! No one ever mentioned it again, and it's still not over!- I'm sorry. And let me let you know if you don't know. The impression I gained on that occasion is that, as many as 30 cities in Serbia, wherever you had your candidates and where you had an interest in entering the local council. All this reminds me of that scene from our home movie with the Partisan theme, where that unfortunate woman says "Hello Požega, alo Požega", but she can't make contact!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15725	The word has a National MP, Miljko Cetrovic, and let Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15726	Dear People's MPs, given the limited time, I have had many questions for the Minister of Capital Investments, but in order to give opportunity to the other SRS MPs, I will cut short – how will I comment on the proposal for a conclusion on concessions? It was an introductory word here by the minister, although these materials are very shrubs, without any essential information on concessions to be given, and I will not doubt it, having here already expressed the will of the majority who supports the Government and the Minister of Capital Investments, and saying that Serbia is already the centre of traffic for Southeastern Europe, that this is the largest investment in Serbia, but they translated into a few words, which the minister made: that this morning the World Bank was here, that already today at 18,00 hours the signing of the contract of 72 million; so probably the minister went out, signed the contract and returned, and immediately said that the AP Assembly had not concluded that it would not accept this, so that all funds would be used immediately in Vojvodina. So, it's a trade to provide support for Vojvodina MPs, and Tuesday is a meeting of the Ministers of Transport in Moscow. So, the minister here has cleared it all up and the question is, what are we discussing? For three months as it was addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we have heard here whether the Traffic Committee discussed this, did the Finance Committee discuss this? No, it's not, because it shouldn't have been on the board! The travel network of Serbia is unique, and ministers, ministers, ministers, Ilic, how unique, how is it that the municipality of Kraljevo as the territory's largest municipality in Serbia, with roads, roads to Kragujevac, Batocina, highway to Cačka, the Ibar highway to Belgrade, that I do not speak for that direction towards Užica, towards Kruševec, then Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik, Kruševac, then the highway to Raško, the direction of Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, towards Mitrovica and Pristina, is the Kingdom with such territory, with such directions to be bypassed by these highways?- I'm sorry. There is a project highway from Kragujevac to Cačka via the King, with a bypass that has been used for more than 20 years. Mr. Minister came in two months ago after the City Hall of Kralje was asked the question of the bypass, not to say for decades; traffic congestion is in the city's outermost area, because transit traffic is going through the city centre – there is only one bridge between the city centre towards Kruševac or according to Matarushko Banja to take place on the Ibar highway, and the minister with two New Serbia council members went there in the fields and determined the route, some semi-trails through Donji Ratin, the village, and there he found a solution! It's a real solution from Master Ilic. He promised, when he was with the president of the municipality of Dr. Jovic, who is no longer in the SPO, I don't know what his party's name is now, whether it's registered, that he will finance the "best downhill" down Ibar. A happy downhill?- I'm sorry. If you don't know what a rowing descent is, it's a descent to the natrictor, truck, tires, possibly by some rafts from Maglich to the King. As a capital investment, he promised to build a "vence-ce" in Maglich from where the "best downhill" began. Let me ask you, Ministers, on what grounds did you begin the detour around the Zic monastery, when SO Kraljevo, the local authorities' departments didn't issue any paper for that bypass? How did this Micic, the majority owner of Putevi-Uzice, come in to make that investment, and then there was a later tender, so he found a subcontractor?- I'm sorry. It's about 40, 50 million dinars, it's probably pocket money for what's going on right now! Is this now on the agenda of this assembly, the conclusion of a chess party called Serbia's robbery, "the final robbery of Serbia"?- I'm sorry. The pedestrians are gone, the pedestrians are gone, it was small! The hunters, horses and cannons are gone! They were "Knjiz Milos" and these big companies that could have been well cashed in and taken a commission or a percentage! Now it's the king and queen's turn. So there's roads, highways, oil industry and EPS. It's the end of that party. A minister is baptized, and I'd ask him two more questions. Is it true that in the process of bankruptcy, the Minister of Capital Investments has ordered the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, whom he is to appoint as the bankruptcy manager? There's a signature document. There's a new bankruptcy manager here since autumn, with a deputy from Uzic. The last question, so I don't take any more time, are you aware of the urban chaos in Serbia?- I'm sorry. Your ministry is huge, with 12 deputies or assistants, few of these benches would just fit right here in the front row. Urbanist chaos in the Kingdom, in the center of the Kings, and in all the cities of Serbia, directly helps and participates in it, the Ministry of Capital Investments. The urban mafia, which is tied to urban chaos, is directly in contact with the people of the ministry, through the head of local authorities. This is also an obvious example in the King, (I spent seven and a half minutes) The King as the largest municipality has no possibility, nor will anyone predict in 30 or 50 years that there will be a road, highway, bypasses – that I am not talking about detours. We may have a radius through the most densely populated place, but Novi Pazar won't get that railroad for another 200 years. Milan Veselinovic will have to drive as he has driven so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15727	It's not possible, Mr. Veselinovic, that's what I explained, it's not possible when you're mentioned from the same political party to get a replica. This is a member of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic, and be prepared by Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15728	It is indisputable what good infrastructure means, a good road network for the development of one region or state in general. I'm not going to say anything, what would be like repeating a speaker before me, or adding or subtracting something that would affect the conditions to come to a conclusion as proposed in the text of this material. I would use the presence of Minister Velja Ilic to ask him a few questions or ask him. Mr. Ilic, I wish to address you, it is a rare opportunity to meet, so on this occasion in the Assembly: I know that you were in Majdanpek and I know that you know very well the opportunities in Majdanpek and I would like to see you again, when time allows for you, (and I would remind you of those promises that were made during those campaigns for elections) and because of the need, as one representative of the Government who works in a large ministry, and also on the promise, regarding the problems of that end, we expect with the right of your help. Majdanpek is one appendix, when it comes to the road network, maintenance of the road network, infrastructure, and it is related to what I would ask you to ask you: you know that in the center of the city board, which marks the beginning of the section for maintenance of the roads of the traps and the end of the fire or vice versa, the road network, depends on which you come from – is worse maintained by the road network of the fire department for the construction of roads, and here I would like your intervention, because it is impossible. In a joke, I say I get home a lot faster when I go in the rain, 'cause I don't see all those holes on the road, but that's why my car gets hurt. There are approximately two major problems in Majdanpek: one exit from Majdanpek to Bor, Zaječar, Negotina, Kladova, via Milanovac. Part of the road (passway) through the town of Majdanpek has failed completely and it takes a big job to bring it into order; the entrance to Majdanpek from the direction of Kučev due to the spread of the surface spear and the exploitation of a part of the mine bed has come close to the road, where it practically endangers that part of the road – the entrance to Majdanpek, and there should be your intervention, or permission to do all the technical conditions and necessary permits to protect this road, and that the mine bed can be exploited, so that there is no threat to that part of the road, because then Majdanpek would be cut off in both directions. In that part, I think your associates, your assistants, might be able to help a little more to at least get at least some deadlines interested in doing so: selling forests, buildings, spending on that road network they destroyed, repairing, and so you're going to help a lot of Majdanpek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15729	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Milos Disic be prepared, then the MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15730	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in his explanation to this assembly, mentions some large billions of euros, that these are investments, but with this documentation that we have and that has been done by the Republic Road Directorate, I come to the conclusion that there will be billions of euros but "stealed" through giving this concession. Namely, according to the Republic Roads Directorate, those shares, three that are given under concession and their detention to cost about 769m euros on the highway, not as the minister claims two billion euros. Now the question is, why are these three concessions connected to one? Apparently, the argument is that part of that highway from Belgrade to Požega is not interested in concessionaries, so they won't accept that concession unless we give them someone else as more rewarding, which is certainly not true. Based on the same documentation done by the same Directorate, I mean the Republic, the period since that trip would start returning the money invested, or to make the income, is 16 years. The possibility of giving a concession is to 20 years, with the law predicting 30 years, can be extended by a subsequent contract to 30 years. It means that this share from Belgrade to Požega for each concessionary is very interesting, but the problem is that our strategic partner doesn't think that he's working with his money or that he might be in debt with a foreign bank, but he thinks he's doing it since he's already making the highway that's being built and that's the part from Horgos to Novi Sad and Novi Sad to Belgrade, which is now making an annual net income of 20m euros. The minister boasts of the toll prices and that we must bring them into line with the European Union. The current price ratio is 1:3. The tendency is this year to make the toll fee two-thirds of the European price, which is certainly the groaning of the future concessionaire's skin, i.e. the citizens of Serbia for the future concessionaire. This 20m-euro revenue, which annually generates these two shares, Mr. Minister, is at current prices. The question now arises how much this revenue will be when prices rise and when you start that price adjustment in the European Union countries. Now this is still a semi-open highway. So there are two charging ramps. By building the highway, it is absolutely certain that it will no longer be half-opened, but will be closed, which means that every entrance and every exit will have its own payment ramp. This will increase income more and more. Now, based on the same data issued by the Republic Roads Directorate, there is information that someone will, no less or less, for the concession period for which you predict to give these three shares, to earn a net of two billion euros. Yes, Mr. Minister, take the digitron, so you see, because only the state border of Subotica-Novi Sad will make 896m euros on the highway of Belgrade-Pozega, 958.4m euros. Mr. Minister, what I had in math, it doesn't matter, I can read numbers, you can take and you can read or you're obviously illiterate. Now I'd like to ask the minister another question, which is, of these two billion dollars, how much will Mr. Minister put in, or what is his commission?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15731	National MP Slavoljub Matic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15732	I am reporting under Article 100(1) not only in order to protect the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly, but also to protect the dignity of those who watch TV broadcasts. First of all, I would like to say that all the speakers who called, not only here, the present minister, but also the other ministers, and who mention that the government is a thief, at the same time, or after that, go by the halls and the wolf by the hands of the MPs who they consider to be close to the people of the Ministry and beg to organize something useful for their local self-government. So does Mr Veroljub Arsic, so do many MPs, and here they come out and say that these same people are the organizers of the biggest robberies here in Serbia, and then you can also say, if you want to hang out with them, you want to be the same. Gentlemen, don't be such hypocrites, I think this is a useful business for all of Serbia, and don't be a part of the narrow-minded interest in misleading the people who watch this TV broadcast.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15733	Just a moment, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I was already trying to make an insult – I intervened with the bell, so there was no reason later. Here you go, replica, Mr Arsic -- I will always respond, whether it's an MP or a minister, most naturally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15734	At least I'm surprised that someone here who advocates the truth comes out for this pay phone and tells a lie, because I never spoke to Mr. Velija Ilic. I've never asked him for anything, nor do I intend to. I don't want to teach him his job, I guess he needs to know himself that he should work in the interests of Serbian citizens, not in his own personal interest! These numbers I've read are data from the Republic Road Directorate, Mr. Slavoljub Matic, I'll give them to you. Don't worry about the citizens of Serbia, that's why there is an SRS. As long as the SRS is, we'll at least try to tell the citizens what kind of thief you're ready for, not you personally, but your coalition partners, and then in the next election, you'll imagine who you'll be making coalitions with, if you even pass the censorship you are!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15735	I pray that the citizens do not worry about any party. Mr. Breather, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15736	We have plenty of reasons to build new roads in Serbia. It's all good, gentlemen, and we're not doing it on the West's orders again. Today we are witnessing that the Ministry of Capital Investment does not have very good co-operation with other important factors in Serbia. When I say that, I mean the government of Vojvodina and the local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. For example, we from the Indji municipality are making a lot of efforts to convince the Ministry of Capital Investment and Minister Velimir Ilic to choose from the two offered variants of the bridge on the Danube near Beška "low bridge". This variant is of general importance to all inhabited places that are next to the Danube and to the municipality of Indji and Novi Sad. The version of the "lower bridge" offers greater opportunities for the rapid development of the municipality of Novi Sad and Indjija and the settlements themselves along the Danube, as opportunities are being created for the construction of resorts, motels and hotels, and therefore the employment of citizens of these two municipalities. As far as the tunnel is concerned, if it's in Vojvodina, it's there. If you know, you've been on the Freedom Bridge and you know you're walking through the tunnel to Sremska Kamenica. In addition, this bridge would allow for the construction and construction of the Danube coast in its vicinity. It is not good to think only about highways, but also about water corridors on the Danube and Sava, which run through Serbia. We're not ready to catch up with all the problems and solve them. I say, with roads and highways to solve waterways, we have a Danube that passes through Serbia, and its shores are unedited, unedited and dirty. It happens that a certain foreign ship strays into our waters, and we are not prepared to host such random intents and passersbys. Let's at least try to create conditions to build the Danube coast and not just welcome random passersby, but to lure tourists to visit us on purpose. Believe me, it'll pay off. If you had all been in power or were now in power to listen to the presentations of Serbian radicals at the promotions, you would have seen that the Serbian Radical Party advocated public works even earlier. What would that mean for Serbia? A large number of Serbian citizens, who are unemployed today, would be employed. We are not against building roads in Serbia, because we need roads. We're just afraid of who's going to charge for it later, because every big job gives birth to a big crime, and we're aware of that. As for that group of people, the fishermen that were gathering, it's not true. We're fishermen and we fish on those shores without this bridge. The thing is, some variants have already passed in the tender, and neither the citizens of Serbia nor the surrounding places have wondered. If we know that this bridge is damaged, and that it's under surveillance, if we stop under the current Beška bridge, we'll see that there's an opening of 20 centimeters on the bottom of that August tape. We don't know what time or how it's gonna open. You weren't nearly there to see, I was the other day and I saw with my eyes that it was a 20-centimeter break. Marijan Risticevic will take you, so you will have a chance to see it there. The bridge brought together legally elected representatives of the people and local self-government. Once again, they were not groups of fishermen who referred these requirements, but legally elected citizens of local communities from these areas, the areas of Kovil, Beška, Novi Slankamen, Krcedin and local self-government from India and Novi Sad. Here, for your information, if you don't know who was there, now I remind you, you know who it was. Since there are more registered speakers in the SRS, I'd give them my word and I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15737	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15738	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the G17 Plus party has not applied for discussion today. We simply felt that one such proposal was more than useful for the state of Serbia, for the development of the entire country. As you know, construction is pulling back the development of all other industries. But I answered by article 100 because I wanted to perhaps more professionally examine some of the remarks that were made here at the pay phone. I'll try to make it as short as possible. There's not much to comment on. Unfortunately, most speakers go out for a payphone and come out with a text that's identical. So, as a professional, I'll try to tell you a few things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15739	Since time has not been used, it is no problem for you to use this time on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Bosnjak. You have no reason to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, because that's why you wouldn't get the word, and since it's alternately going "yes" and "no" you're saying "yes," here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15740	For those who have complained that they cannot adopt this proposal because there is no precise information about how much the cost of an idea project will be, how much the cost of the roads will be, just to say a few things. One square kilometer times costs about 1m euros. Of course it can cost cheaper. There is a possibility of costing about 700,000 euros. However, here are some analyses by which simple mathematics from the price and length of times has been given some value which, unfortunately, leads the citizens of Serbia astray and believe that the roads here will be paid at some unreally high prices. For those of you who don't know, I want to say that these roads, among other things, will have their bridges, that over every highway there will be pasarellas, that these pasarellas also fall into the cost of building the highway, and for those who don't know that, let me say that about one square meter of bridge costs about a thousand and a half euros. If this is about a highway, it's about 30 metres wide. When you multiply the width of the highway and multiply the price of one square meter of bridge, you get the value of one square meter of bridge about 30 million. So for those of you who don't know it, please don't advertise and confuse our dear viewers, citizens who may be thinking about how their money will be spent. On the other hand, I'd like to say that the words of our governor, who said that, somewhere in 2007, if there is no increase in production, may be due slavery. Of course, this is remarkablely said because citizens need to be warned that the increase in production is inevitable. The only way to get new investments is, let's say, this is to approve and adopt these concessions that, as I said at first, will open up a whole cycle of various production branches. So, to adopt a concession law, to approve concessions, means only to approve investments that will come into this country, and "no" to approve some new borrowing of this country. So this is quite the opposite. Concessions are also the source of new funds, not some new borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15741	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no need for someone to be a chicken to recognize a kitten. As for these things that Mrs. Branka Bosnjak brought out, no one here was pulling a bill out of his sleeve. We've been reading a document made by the Republic Road Directorate, and there are literally all the figures that are complex next to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15743	Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, by what member do you speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15744	He misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15745	Are you misread? I'm sorry, I didn't get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no reason not to trust the experts of the Republic Roads Directorate and all the data, all the figures, which the SRS and I have mentioned, are in this particular analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15747	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for trusting the experts. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15748	Mr Markovic, you were absolutely right today when, I heard, you were praised by some MPs, that thief, the criminal Bogoljub Karic, who made it impossible for you to enter the National Assembly building and did well in accordance with your powers, but when it comes to Article 89 of the principle, and because the SRS respects the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly, in the future tell your colleagues from their parliamentary group, including Mrs Božnjak and each of them, to apply for the discussion (by MPs or authorised representatives under a certain point of the agenda) to submit until the opening of the search on that part of the agenda; because when Mrs Bošnjak called and said that she would speak by article 100 that the group did not use time, there were no registered lists, and by Article 89. The Rules of Procedure shall be submitted by the time the search is opened at a given point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15749	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic, you're absolutely right, and that's why I asked the MPs if they agree to alternately... Thank you, if there were any objections at the time, I wouldn't have allowed the address. You know I'm consistent. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: I want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of answering, but when I saw a plan like Mr. Minister on the road, here, clearly sees here, it's not to keep mentioning Lazarec, but this time I have to do it, because look at more than 40 kilometers of the curve is made, and the same land configuration is made. I don't see any basis why the highway would go through Obrenovac, make about 40 miles or more, and we know and we can imagine how much all that investment costs. I would therefore like to mention two very correct and honest MPs from the DSS, Mr Mijailovic, called the Moon – why this same highway did not reach Užica, whether what was called Užice Titovo or what is now Lunet's. Furthermore, Mr. Vlaovic cannot get out, well, to say why to charge the toll of the highway, when the highway was already built; and our minister, Ilic, takes pictures for our TV stations and promotes it as if this ministry was doing roads or, let's say, the road to the Ostružnica, which is all, gentlemen, we know about the time Milosevic made roads, but, campaign is a campaign, that's the situation. Concession as a way to get investment, absolutely, yes. We Serbian radicals advocate it, but provided they are fair concessions, not what has been happening since 2000, which is what DOS did, when they made some artificial plans, worked without projects, took big money for an extremely bad asphalt, which is often done by Mr. Minister Ilic to criticise, on several TV stations in his campaign. It should be acknowledged that the Ibar Highway, where this highway was to go and, unfortunately, I see it not drawn, may be the minister who will change his mind in the meantime, and certainly our busiest road in Serbia. About 8,000 vehicles pass the Ibar Highway and it's a very dangerous stock, especially in the direction of the Lazarets, and even to Cačka it's not so safe. Also, I mean, we're not against all things if it's fair and transparent. So if we want foreign investors to come and take jobs, that they do, and we're in the world recognised as builders, we have our companies that do roads very well in African countries, I don't think there's really room for us to be able to give advantage to some foreign investment. In particular, concessionaries are said to have a great interest in mines. Gentlemen, that way, if we sell everything in Serbia, we as a state lose our identity. I believe that Mr. Minister did not make a strategy for traffic development, especially when we say road and water traffic, river traffic; the Valjevo-Loznica railway – and this is where we care about the works, which is very strategically important for our railway, because it connects us with Republika Srpska. I would like to say that there is no room for any particular criticism, if we consider that Minister Velimir Ilic is spending a lot of time with Mr Bogoljub Karic and under very suspicious circumstances "Mobtel" has been sold, so I would like to ask a few questions to Mr. Minister. Is he planning a traffic development strategy? Then, investment in river traffic, what are the plans? The Valjevo-Loznica railway line, is it planned to be completed, when and why a detour around the Lazarets was made, and is it intended to make a correction here? Another very interesting question I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary. At the time of our campaign, we often heard him say he spent a lot of time in a cave, maybe there are consequences, I'm not saying, because of the SPS gentlemen who chased him as a political dissident. Now, how does he enjoy their support and how does this government of yours survive thanks to the SPS?- I'm sorry. Finally, to say that all these concessions and what the Minister of Capital Investment announces, it all seems to me to be a first-april joke in that style of a Serb who answered on the phone, I don't know if B92, someone made a joke with Mr. Minister, I don't know that this doesn't turn out in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15751	MP Vojislav Milajic is not here. The People's MP Milorad Mircic is not here. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15752	Mr. Chairman, Article 100, Position 1. I really think that we should respect each other here, because in this room, Bogoljub Karic does not sit, so that we do not respect him, and I would really ask, because I was surprised by the previous speaker, a colleague from the SRS, who has been correct so far, to speak of Mr. Ilic, I was really surprised to speak to him like this in the last few sentences. Come on, Mr. Ilic is an honest and capable man, which proves to be a minister, but also showed that he accepts the support of the SPS that he is a true Serb and that he is a Christian – that he is ready to turn his other cheek and forgive when he needs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15753	Thank you. Were there any applications for replication? No, it's not. ) The closing word has Minister Velimir Ilic, and I thank you for your tolerance during several discussions. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15754	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very disappointed to hear some stories, I'm in front of a dilemma. I believed in some people in the opposition that they were still worth it and that they were some kind of engine. A good opposition will be good authority. However, this discussion of various tourist guides, people, has led me to such a state that I have a great disappointment, and believe me, here I am ready to hold with my associates a seminar on the concessions of gentlemen who is interested, to learn a little bit. The order would be, because it will be current for the next few years and you can't approach any more serious authorities if you don't master it. And some would, of course, have little math to teach, at least until the fourth grade. So they can add: we have three -- the price of toll, the number of cars, the number of years, and when one parameter is growing another is changing, meaning that contract provisions are changing, etc. Here today someone was making fun of the World Bank, which today held a large seminar, in the rooms of the World Bank and in the government, as these concessions were done, and gave full support to the concierge. It is true that the IBRD has found Serbia as a centre and four days are here, two and a half thousand bankers and various delegations from around the world, guests of Serbia, and that one of the topics is exactly what we are talking about today. It wasn't staged. It happened, because this IBRD session in Serbia was scheduled two years ago. Gentlemen, this is very serious, and that's why we need to read a little something, and there's no shame in asking anyone. We were talking about Nis-Dimitrovgrad, a four-variance route. There were four variations. But now there's been a revision, it's been arranged and there's only one option chosen. We don't understand what the Space Plan is. Well, you were in power, your minister was when that variant was adopted, and why is... Why isn't it managed, etc. Ask the people who then adopted that variant in the Space Plan of Serbia. We listen to all kinds of nonsense, an analysis of the environmental impact...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15755	Mr. Minister, please, MPs don't talk nonsense. I'm really obliged to take care of the way this is spoken of at the pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15756	No, please, I've had an insult here, and a thief, and criminals, you haven't thought to mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15757	I'm sorry, but I didn't chair the session at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15758	Look, gentlemen, it's true that you call someone a criminal today, and until yesterday, he was your coalition partner. I am the head of the party, which now calls Mr. Karic a criminal, met for the first time in the presence of your party boss, and last time I saw him in the presence of your deputy boss at a BK TV celebration in BK TV rooms! According to this, I may have a coalition at the bar, but certainly less than you do. Gentlemen of the Democrats, we're telling a story about the Performance Study and the impact on the environment. The impact on the environment, the tax costs for this project 15m euros. So we need to secure the funds. Secondly, I'd like to ask you to see if your officials have a physicality study on the Ada Bridge. Did they do certain documentation and how they sought credit for the bridge on Ada, whether they owned certain papers and already entered into the project's realisation. As for Shida, the crossing, it's true that I'm going to help, but someone needs to address the memo to give the funds. It's a shame in the 21st century that someone has no electricity to work with a candle! And it's a shame, but you have to define the crossings. There can't be seven crossings in a small municipality. It doesn't give anyone in Europe. It's slowing down... Then, inflow of foreign capital you say. I'd like to see who can, which bank in Serbia can finance the highway with domestic capital. So IBRD, World Bank and other banks will finance. It is an intruding of foreign capital, regardless of whether the contractor is domestic, as it relates to the Beška Bridge, because today at 1800 hours the contract is signed, is true, for 72 million for the bridge's recovery, for the new bridge on Beška and for the construction of the Beška-Novi Sad highway. Therefore, you want concessions, gentlemen of the DS, and you react like this. You're talking about investment, some are calling for some investments at the airport, but remember, from your ranks, only on that investment have 16 people been arrested! So when one of them is arrested by the Ministry of Capital Investment for some investment, then call me. Only one when there is. And on one small investment, and imagine, not until God, that you're doing this concession on the highway, so you wouldn't be able to get in jail! I remember, and there are documents of your contracts, gentlemen, and honest shops. The contract with your friend, not to call it, was 960 million dinars, and the annex, three months later, a billion dinars. Annex to the deed, and you're making two or three more annexes along the way and then you're asking me how fair it is to be done! Take a look at some paperwork. If you're particularly interested in coming to me, I'll show you. Then, we have something else. We're talking about toll. Why is it used? Well, don't, gentlemen, I asked a gentleman what he had in math when he passed. He doesn't know that the big item is maintenance roads. It's not just picking up toll to spend and making money. Maintaining roads in the European Union's territory costs 30,000 euros per km annually. And right now, we can extract $600 a mile from our toll. So that's why the European Union is asking to raise the price to make service quality and to have good and safe roads. The big item is maintenance roads. Talk - they're all thieves. Let's not do anything and let's all be honest. Here, I've had time, believe me, for eight years I've been mayor and I haven't been found by anyone, but gentlemen, you've been ministers, too. You had ministers. How many miles of highway did you do? Not a mile. Secondly, it's true that you were doing what the King's gentleman was talking about, a tour around the Kings and a bridge, but you didn't pay for the Bridge. You owe 53 million still, people come looking for money every day. You didn't pay anyone anything, what you did, gentlemen, when you had ministers. It's got to be paid. And it's true that the current toll is 7.2 billion dinars. It's true that we'll pay for it in a few months. This government will pay for everything and bring to zero travel companies. I guarantee and you call me if I don't keep my promise. Gentlemen, I will pay as Minister and Beška, two billion and 200-300 million. We have to pay for it. People can't work for nothing, they didn't get paid. So we'll pay for it. As for the New Market, Tutina, I completely agree with Mr. Speaker that the road is in bad shape. We are investing extremely much and we will also create a tour around Novi Pazar, we are already designing, project documentation is under way. It is true that the road to Tutin is bad, it must be invested there, the roads must be completely finished in that region and we will finish, and I will visit Pazar these days, and I will begin. It's true we're working now on the Ivanica-Studentica, in a few days and we'll be done with it. It is true that we are doing a reconstruction of the Royal Kopalnik, a gentleman from the Kings, and that is currently the biggest investment in that part of Serbia, according to Novi Pazar and Rasko. Maybe you didn't see, though, walk, look, and it's true that we're doing a bypass, but it's not through some fields, but where you projected and geometered an exceptional plot; and we'll finish the bypass because the project documentation for the tour around the King ends in July of the month. I promised, and I'll make it. Next, toll - four billion, you calculated, it's true. Do you know what four billion is? That's 50 million euros. That's a five-mile highway full of profile. Now you're saying you can do it at that pace. If we were to finish all those miles from Horgos to Požega? It's true he has the stock that's been done. You talked about the role of the state yourself and that it would be a profitable investment, because there are also large interest on the investment of bank funds. In order to cover the investment, the state has to give its share until traffic increases. Since we don't have the money, we're investing in something where the funds are being raised instead of the money we're supposed to give. The study was done, in exactly the same way it fits the full investment to cover and that there is the interest of European companies, world and domestics to do this investment. No one's gonna work if they know it's gonna be a loss in the beginning. It's true that you're proposing public works, but, gentlemen, the time of work has passed, cost bitumen, costs stone, we can't use a wheelchair. I know you're saying it, but it's demagogy. It needs bitumen, it needs equipment, it needs technique, it needs machines, and it costs a lot of money. Public works yes, but with equipment, technique and large funds to be invested. You know what the price is, etc. They can no longer be used in the 21st century. We need to clear this up. Secondly, this is where we talked about honesty. I listened, you called us thieves, cheaters, that we would steal, that we would do this, and we certainly won't do it. If you want to control, come. I suggest you give your representatives and have them control everything, form a congregation team to control everything, and everything will be transparent, at any time of the day and night, you can look for information and see and follow. Don't talk about honesty here at the pay phone. I don't know who he has to vote with, and I don't know what they're doing, etc. Don't, it's a demagogy and you don't have to do it! You asked me where legalization is five euros per square. Where you are not in power, there are five, and where you are – 350 euros per square. Remember. I want you to explain to me, you're saying that by credit, here, when your minister was in power, how many credits did you get for the roads? Zero! The ones who made the most noise here. It is true that Bor-Zaječar has started to work, and I am not ashamed, it has been done from Bor two and a half kilometers and from Zaječar six kilometers. There's 11 left and we'll be done this year, I guarantee you, and check if you don't believe it. Call it in, check it out. It's true that here you were talking about the King, about the investments, you know what's there, and you're asking for a bypass around Zica. It's a shame! Towkers pass a meter past the great Serb sanctuary, the frescoes fall off, a bypass has to be made. You're not going to have a bishop on a monastery's estate now to control your procedural flows and ask for your conditions to be respected in the church's port. We're going to make a place where the Holy Synod is and where the church made the decision to make it, and that's very important. And not to talk about chaos, about everything, it doesn't stand. You're asking me what the commission is. What do you think? Please, this is one process that is strictly controlled at the highest state level. If you're used to asking immediately what the commission is, ask your minister. I didn't open a trucking company during my term of office. You're asking me for a bridge project on one of the largest European rivers, to ask the locals, and there's no such thing in the world. Imagine that they asked the locals when they projected the channel under the Lamanche and say, "Let's make a deal on how we're going to do it." These, for God's sake, from Zemun's office were the loudest, I don't know what that looks like, it doesn't lead to good. So don't worry about Uzica, they'll all get theirs. The project is over and the Space Plan to Požega, if God will, we will discuss it very quickly here. Don't be angry, I haven't memorized, say whatever you want, it's important that we make way for this Serbia to get the highway. I welcome you and thank you for your attention and I hope you will vote for this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15759	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry Mr. Minister came out, but these fellow Members of his will seem to me a little more well-read and educated than Mr. Secretary. I wanted to tell him that I was smarter than he was, taking all kinds of trips. My best passengers were those from Chačka, professors of the university, staff at the institute, doctors, educators, students, smart people, smart neighborhood, I come from that neighborhood alone. I would like Mr. Velimir Ilic to begin by visiting his municipality and villages from the municipality he comes from. That'd be good. On the other hand, at least you, representatives of the DS in his ministry, could have taught him to say or at least say another word more correctly, because in order to go, and I'm willing to translate it through Lamanche, at least so much he must know, one sentence in any foreign language to go on such a journey. As for his work and what he should be doing as a minister, we had a circus today and this other circus guy, this fellow, Bogoljub Karic, held a press conference, they could have been together, they were a great tandem. But his job is not to inform the public and to abuse a congregation pay phone and say that someone was stealing something. He must, as an executive officer, and in this case the minister, with great powers, report it to the competent state authorities and then see if his fingers are involved or any of his coalition partners or any of his associates. It's not enough to just come here. I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman to let me know, since the minister's out, whether there's still a congregation restaurant or a buffet, because I don't have time, I really have a lot of work to do in the O.R. to ask myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15761	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15762	According to the Rules of Procedure, when one point is on the agenda, the committees in charge should declare themselves by it. Mr. Secretary gave a speech here, and he's running away. It is obvious that it does not know that the responsible Finance Committee has failed to gather one single time because the ruling majority's MPs did not want the concession decision to be discussed on the committee. The Finance Committee has never discussed this before, and to Mr. Neanderthal, who throws the subject out of here and talks, it should be clear to him, Mr. Secretary. About how to collect the toll and what it looks like and how it wants to show that we don't know what toll is and that there are expenses. Let Mr. Secretary know that I'm a member of the Finance Committee and that and how well I know how to read the reports. It says here that the total revenue on the Belgrade-Pozega highway is 1.543m euros for concession periods; that the ongoing maintenance of 63mm 300 000 euros, investment maintenance of 30m, the cost of the 56m collection system, the concession fee going to the state is 146m, the depreciation of 192m, total costs of 488m. The gross profit it will make is, a billion 64mm and 900m euros, and when the tax on profits of 106m and 500m euros is paid, it remains a 958m-euro concessionaire for one share of the stock, and the entire share costs 769m euros. Who's illiterate here now and who's doing the illiterate? Now where is the share from Horgos to Novi Sad and from Novi Sad to Belgrade, where are these revenues? They're at least twice as big. (Dear Shormaz from the scene: "So many or so"? ) Mr. Shormaz, we heard how you too know how to discuss, especially when it comes to these two shares: from Novi Sad to Horgos and from Novi Sad to Belgrade. The highway is almost built, the infrastructure is completely finished, and the land there on the part where a few more kilometers to be made is already bought. That's why the state is in charge, the loans are already coming back, Mr. Secretary's argument is that that part of the loan that's left will be returned by the concessionaire, and what about what we did? Who's that going to? Who's gonna get it back? Citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15763	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15764	Indeed, in one funny and inspired act of government, we had the opportunity to spend half the time in a way to hurt a member of our 100th Rules of Procedure and to fall into the face of all the MPs that he was the government, and that the National Assembly must listen to him. So it turns out that MPs don't know math and a lot of other things. The minister was angry because official data circulating between the authorities were read. In translation, it means that the prank was depreciated, so the minister was injured! I understand that feeling of his, but he has no right to insult the messengers of the people, for he makes the messengers account, and not the messengers to him. The minister was offended that several speakers used the word "snake", forgetting that in fact these MPs quoted the minister as saying. He spoke in those words about Labus, Dinkic and other people with whom he is now in power. But what he demonstrated was that he turned the truth, so he told a former Deputy Prime Minister that while he was a minister of traffic, he had made up a private company, and this man had his own private company for 20 and a change of years, and he invented that the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia was brought in in 1998-2000, and he was brought in several years earlier and was then Minister Bane Ivkovic. It's just that we just had a newly-roasted magistrate, who obviously hasn't accepted these master's manners yet, but has accepted those manners he's known for since 1990 and some year, by the nickname that exists in Chačka. I warn the chairman of the National Assembly that they have this in mind when the agenda is being determined on Tuesday, because we want this government to be resolved, if nothing else, then because of these ministers, like the one who just lit the door.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15765	Momir Markovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems the minister has realized that the government will be replaced on Tuesday, that the election campaign will begin and he's on his way to a pre-election campaign - let me go, let me go, let me do, let me do everything in the King's office, in Raska I'll do it. He reminded me of some pre-war campaign when he promises – I will fix your trip to the village and school for 500 students. He says, "Wait, people, we don't have that many kids." And I'm gonna make you kids. That's exactly how Velija Ilic went. He mentioned the name of our minister of traffic and connections. When our minister, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, had trucks and radios, he had a transport company, Mr. Velja Ilic was in jail, but he was in front. He mentioned Zemun and business space. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament I was the director of the business space in Zemun, arrested for hiring 72 people, arrested me in action "Sabbe" for a long list of employees, and Minister Velju Ilic soon for long fingers. We asked him, he says - you want to know what the commission is. When we asked how big it was, he wouldn't normally say it, so the only business secret for the minister was the commission. Essentially, it is high, because who would have given their way from Novi Sad to Belgrade without a commission, who would have given their way without a commission from Horgos to Novi Sad, who would have given their way without commission from "the ramp" to "the Trupal Forests" and the concession?- I'm sorry. So he puts people in those cabins and charges the toll. All that, ladies and gentlemen, in the West costs. Otherwise, not to spread the fame of how much he's been working, how much he's done since the last time he came out, he didn't know the door to open, he still didn't make a bridge at the Tribute, still in Belgrade, but literally, none of those capital investments did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15767	Mr. Markovic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15768	So, I'm sorry the minister ran away, I'd like to say it to his face, but I think you gentlemen, as his people, will convey everything he's said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15769	Mr. Markovic, you've had plenty of time with the minister, you could have done it while he was here. We'll, uh, discuss the first thing that's been hurt by the Rules of Procedure. I was a little tolerated by calling the Rules of Procedure and I didn't hear anything that was hurt. Did he mention you? Okay, we'll get to that. MP Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15770	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at you, and you yourself have now said that you have been overly tolerated because you have not heard any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The Dignity of the Assembly begins from the first to the next through the speakers of the SRS and all those epithets at the expense of the minister here. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one here has to love any minister, but he can respect the minister's office. No one here has to like or appreciate Velimir Ilic, but perhaps he could respect the minister, even if his name is Velimir Ilic. Mr. Arsic presented information regarding the toll collection, with all due respect to Mr. Arsic and all the honour of being a member of the Assembly's Finance Committee, but he did mix billions and millions, a little euro, a little dinar, etc. It is very nice when a traffic infrastructure and traffic strategy in Serbia is being considered by a traffic-related man, but the man is an autolimar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15771	Mr. Grouch, don't start with what you said you were challenging, understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15772	I apologize to both you and the National Assembly, but these are facts. On the other hand, my predecessor for this speaker said what he could do for him. So, while the minister of the SRS had his own car transport company, Mr. Ilic was that. Perhaps Mr. Ilic was that and that, but Mr. Ilic, unlike my predecessor, was never in prison for this pay phone. There are many such things, beginning to mention, that there is another foreign word to know. As far as I can see, most of the SRS MPs have learned one side of the word for today's session, and that's a concession, and they've repeated it well, but only learning the words of concessions, probably doesn't mean they understand the concept of concessions themselves, but that's another time. Finally, the fear of most SRS MPs is understandable, the fear of whether it will be, the whole process, implemented, legally – it certainly "yes". But the matter of commissions, the question of various possible actions, events during the process?- I'm sorry. I understand their fear, because the first concession in the previous period, it did the SRS the other day when Diku gave Bogoljub Karic a concession service, I don't know what deadline. You probably weren't all directed to that, so it's understandable your fear during these concessions or the award of these concessions. Thank you, and I apologize once more for time's overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15773	Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? First, let's see the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic. First we need to clarify the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cevrovic, are you in the Rules of Procedure? First, let's get the Rules of Procedure straight, see if we have any problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15774	Mr. Angelkovic, you, as chairman, are in charge of any intervention from this pay phone that has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, to give an explanation, so unless the MP is satisfied with your explanation to direct all this to the day of voting when the National Assembly will decide whether there have been any violations of the Rules of Procedure. But I didn't answer because of this violation of the Rules of Procedure, which could be attributed to your account.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15775	I accept it, but I wanted to be tolerated to end up in a good atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15776	You are known for your tolerance, but I wanted to point out that here, indeed, in continuity, you are in violation of Article 100(1) and that I do not list any other members of our Rules of Procedure. I understand the need to defend the government's political stance, but this is where MPs who defend Minister Velimir Ilic come out, not because of his political views or what is the subject of this debate, but because of something that can be brought to our attention to his emotional state, behaviour and obvious unadjustment, the academic title he has received, so the means of informing us. Please, the point of these injuries that we are advertising here is that one member of the government is not showing respect for the National Assembly and that disrespect demonstrates both in his own vocabulary and in his own attitude and in what is worst, by twisting the common known facts. That's what we've been pointing out, that's what these injuries are about. So I ask you, Mr. Chairman, when it is voting day to put on the agenda to vote on whether Velimir Ilic, as a member of the government and minister in charge of representing the Government in the National Assembly, on this agenda point, which is in some way touching these concessions, injured Article 100(1) because he insulted the MPs with his inappropriate stand for this speaker. If he had the need to react emotionally, he could come out after every MP and explain, to reason, so if he didn't convince the MP, that there was another situation, and this is "an block". He insulted the parties, still took advantage of the opportunity to bring out black underwear from a time of too much love with some parties. He has this tendency to change parties in co-operation and I don't attack it. We're here, time will show everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15777	The first thing is to clarify the Rules of Procedure. I've seen you, Mrs. Comic. I couldn't react whether he was hurt or not, because I wasn't there when Minister Ilic spoke, I'm sorry, so I don't know if he hurt anyone or not and whether he hurt the Parliament's dignity or not. Given that there was an initiative to vote on this in the voting day for your position that the injured Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1) by the minister, would, of course, be the Assembly and ask the service to record in the voting day, whether this member was injured by Minister Velimir Ilic, and that ended the debate on the Rules of Procedure. Now let's see the replicas. Mr. Arsic, wait. First, Mr. Gordana Komic's MP, I realized that the president of the municipality was recognized in Mr. Ilic's discussion, then Mr. Disic and he said he recognized himself, and then Mr. Arsic, because he recognized himself, more specifically, he was called by Mr. Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15778	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the replica based on the incorrect interpretation of the question of DS MPs and what the minister said in his reply, which is part of the National Assembly's stenogram. All that the Minister has said, says everything about him, and nothing about the subject, and especially nothing about the MPs, for a stenogram of the National Assembly that will certainly be consulted when there are talks about concession agreements, I want it recorded and compared to the speech of the Minister, that DS MPs have not received an answer – where they can see a study of justification; where they can see the planning documentation, where they can see the decision of the Reviszione Commission, where they can see a decision on the assessment of the number of millions of euros put into both proposals for concessions for expropriation; where they can also see a decision on the assessment of costs and where they can consult all the material that would normally be the documentary material on the subject of concessions, which is offered to the Assembly for adoption. So, knowing the very good work of the Assembly, in the stenogram we want to record that the minister, again speaking about himself, and nothing about us, has also shown ignorance of how to call a tendering agreement. The offer that MPs participate in tender committees, and in particular a statement which obviously mixes an analysis of the environmental impact, with its own clear notion, unfortunately strengthens us to believe that the prime minister did not prepare well for the defence of the concession case proposal, which he offered to the National Assembly, or for some of his reasons for which he had the right, did not want to share his knowledge with us. In any case, as a parliamentary group, we want the National Assembly stenogram to make it clear what we wanted to hear as an explanation, and what, unfortunately, we did not get from the minister as an explanation, with sincere faith that there is a good intention in the concession proposal and with a sincere desire that whenever there is, after all the years of "income" with already finished parts of the highways, we really see good roads with Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15779	Replica, MP Mita Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward with a replica initiated by the minister. I think he insulted more MPs and more Serbian citizens, cooked and simply left. As for the municipality of Shyd, from which I come, the minister demeaned the municipality and said it was a small insignificant municipality that has seven border crossings. Mr. Minister, we didn't make those seven border crossings. It is known who has determined where there will be some border crossings. For your knowledge, Shid keeps a 150km border belt, which is not insignificant at all, and it is no small thing, and for that reason there are seven border crossings. Of these seven border crossings, the only border crossing at the "rail station" can be classified as the good and border crossing "Batrovci", and these other border crossings, when you enter from the west, and we are the westernmost municipality in Serbia and the first municipality in which citizens come from the west, when they come to our municipality, to our border crossing, as if they came to the Middle Ages. Do they want to go to Europe like that? Although we are the only devastated municipality in Vojvodina, we have had the strength and courage to at least bring electricity, water and phone to the border crossing of the "Shid-Tovarnik" because last year alone, 100,000 trucks crossed that crossing, and no number is known for passenger vehicles. The minister should know who and where the boundaries are and who's setting them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15781	The word is made by MP Milos Disic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15782	We don't know if we can keep working unless we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15783	Mr. Dishic, we're just respecting the Rules of Procedure, and you keep going. You know who's authorized to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15784	Today we are witnessing that the minister has arrived to divide the citizens of India into fishermen, peasants and other intelligence. As far as Indjia is concerned, his problem is with the commission on these two bridges. Just to remind you, Mr. Secretary, I didn't mean to offend you earlier, although I knew that story. He forced himself that story, insulted himself. To say that the variant of the larger bridge is 52m euros, and the smaller bridge is 26m euros, that the bridge was not designed by peasants, but by experts, and Mr. Minister can see for himself. So this isn't about peasants. That's where the peasants live, so they live everywhere. It's nothing tragic, it's not even a problem. It's just that if we had more peasants, this country of Serbia would be better too, because this is a agricultural country and it's the only agriculture that can get us out of this misery and poverty. That is why Velja Ilic should not worry that there are peasants there, but should take care of what is better for Serbia, what is cheaper coming out and the days entering commissions in personal interests and putting it in her pockets. So, the population of India and the surrounding areas are familiar with this, and they knew in advance even before the tender, which the variant was chosen, that it was a longer version of the bridge, a larger bridge, and that a commission had already been taken. So let the Minister ask himself what is good for the people of India, let him do a little bit and beyond his conscience, to satisfy what the needs of the people of India, and not his personal needs, just commission and commission!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15785	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic, are you present?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15786	Mr. Angelkovic, I have just come out to explain to you that there is something wrong with the MEP identification system and to point to the injury that you are constantly doing, which refers to Rule 94 of our Rules of Procedure. As chairman, you are required to keep an eye on this screen. So one of the most responsible duties of the chairman of the National Assembly is to keep an eye on the screen and see if the number falls below 84, he is required by that member to determine the session's interruption until the quorum is established. It is an injury that constantly seems to be happening, and what the screen is in front of the chairman further confirms that he is violating the Rules of Procedure, because he is pretending not to see that the "down" quorum has fallen. Please take care of it, because if we do and there is no quorum, the session is not regular. There's one more thing about this crowd that's in a hurry. Gentlemen, you asked for this, you asked to work in continuity, no interruptions, until the agenda is over. You're obliged to secure the quorum and you're obliged to listen to what we're saying from this pay phone. That moment when the cadaverum falls below 84, we'll call you again to be present, because you've "patented" this form of work of the National Assembly. I ask that, in the day of the vote, the National Assembly declare whether the chairman of this session, at this point, has done a violation of Article 94(1). The Rules of Procedure, for he did not pay attention that at one point the National Assembly worked without 84 MPs!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15787	So I'm very careful watching the O.R. and it's very clear, when you're looking visually, whether there are 84 MPs or not. Believe me, the moment I found out, in any way, if it was about 80 or 90, I'd turn around and look and if it wasn't 84, I'd interrupt the session. I'm very careful to see that there are over 110 MPs in the O.R. right now, I'm sure. The monitor has 86 and, therefore, one and the other criteria are fulfilled. The second thing, that's under Article 94. I can't watch every second. I guess it's easier for you to watch. Since it's easier for you to look at the monitor, it's resolved by article 82 when representatives or heads of parliament clubs feel they have no quorum to ask for, and at that moment I'm obliged to re-establish the quorum. I'll always do it, as we did last night on two occasions, once there was a quorum, the second time it didn't and there was a break. If anyone suspects a technical failure, I ask the technical service to come and look, if someone has a problem with their card to report it to the technical service and that the technical service responds, because it is their obligation, to solve the problem. Of course, when it comes to your request to vote, as we will vote on article 100. We'll also vote on this in voting day. I'm asking the service to record that, too. Let's move on to the lines of the reported, so your party colleagues don't put them in a position that they can't use their right to replicate. I give the word to the Messenger of the people, Veroljub Arsic, and then to the messenger of the people, Alexander Djordjevic, for the replica they sought.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15788	I use my business rights because I was called directly by one of my colleagues, by name and last name. I don't know what would happen to this dear colleague of mine who, believe me, I'm not mad at at at all, to call me "autolim." I wouldn't be mad if I was, because it's an honest profession. Someone has to do that, but the gentleman forgot, in an attempt to insult me and humiliate me, that he was in fact humiliating all the craftsmen in the Republic of Serbia. So much for how much you take care of the citizens. As for millions and billions, it's just a simple lapus, and it happens to anyone who wants to explain something, and there's only three minutes for that. As for the commission, I didn't tell the minister that he took the commission, but, hands to heart, if you let someone make 2.8 billion euros in one period, and invested 769 and still gave him some of the infrastructure that was expensively paid, I suspect the minister took the commission. I just asked him if he took it and what his commission was, nothing more! Maybe the man in the show of honesty, if he really took the commission, that's what he tells us. However, he will have to answer later, but you can expect anything from Velija Ilic, even that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15789	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Djordjevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no matter how much the Minister of Resolute Ministry of Capital Investment is not present in the Hall, his address to the National Assembly and MPs showed how much and how the minister shouldn't behave here, because this National Assembly, of course, should have the level of which your representatives, when they come out here for a pay phone, speak. If you are talking about bill proposals and you are defending them, and you have no arguments, then that's not how you talk to primitive behavior, especially when it comes to the minister, who was talking about what SRS MPs were saying when it comes to public works and everything that's related, when we said you didn't have a clear program when you formed the ruling majority in this assembly and government, and when it comes to public roads in Serbia, you don't have any national strategy, and that's just shown on this proposal for concessions that you proposed to the National Assembly to adopt. Mr. Minister has given himself the right to tell many lies. When he was an opposition, he spoke of construction firms that were never paid after the NATO Pact bombing, when damage was done to the Republic of Serbia of over $100 billion, and you know it very well. At that time, the government of the People's Unity, in which Serbian radicals participated and when our minister was in favour of traffic and connections, managed to rebuild all the destroyed facilities of NATO bombing. Those construction firms that didn't meet the contract with the Land Reconstruction Directorate about what they had committed to the contract, of course they weren't paid, and he's giving himself the right to say-- I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do it. Serbian citizens pay through taxes all of that. It is important for Serbian citizens to live better. Mr. Minister put out a bunch of empty phrases for this speaker, as in some part of his political party or party. You can shout as much as you want, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to these three ministries, the Ministry of Capital Investments includes the former three ministries, has not had any program and this has just been shown on the basis of these proposals that you submitted to the National Assembly. So much for the Minister of Capital Investments, who, by his own knowledge of ignorance, speaking for this speaker... (President: Be nice, finish up.) )......................................................................................................... Mr. Velimir Ilic has shown by his conduct that not only does he not respect the National Assembly, but he does not know this matter that he was supposed to defend and this proposal that the government submitted to the National Assembly, when it comes to the roads, concessions and everything that was in connection with the proposal that you made to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15791	I am concluding a joint single search on the proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of the highway from Horgos to Požega, LOT 1: Belgrade-Pozega (E763), Lot 2: Horgos-Novi Sad (E75) and Lot 3: Novi Sad-Belgrade (E75), with a proposal for a conclusion, and a proposal for a concession for the construction, maintenance and use of the E-80 highway from Nis (Trupale loop) to Dimitrovgrad, with a proposal for a conclusion. Since we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on those items of the agenda. We are moving to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEDICAL PROTECTION OF ANIMALS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2005, 2006. And 2007. YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, which unanimously supported (by members of all parties) this proposal and the Legislative Committee. The Committee on Agriculture proposed a legal and technical editorial of the text in the Programme for Animal Health in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007, Chapter I. The measures of general preventive animal health, which reads: In point 2) replace the word "marking" with the word "registration". A representative of the proposer agreed with the legal and technical editorial of the text of the Committee on Agriculture. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for the orderly word. Consent to Article 156. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motion for a decision. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Neither the proposing representative, Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, nor Dr Zoran Mašić, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, nor Milos Aligrudic, the Legislative Committee, wants a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have a statement, I conclude a unique search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING A DECISION ON IMPLEMENTATION TO THE PEOPLE'S IMPROVAL INSTRUMENT FOR THIS POINT OF THE END OF THE Agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the application of immunity to the National MP Dark Glisic, which was submitted by the Administrative Board on 8 December 2004, – Proposal for a decision on the application of immunity to the National MP Zlatko Radic, who submitted the Administrative Committee on 8 December 2004, – Proposal for a decision on the application of immunity to the MPs: Bogoljub Pejčić, Blagica Kostic, Radojlo Bukic, Radovan Teodorović, Slobodan Zivkocin, Milan Ninić, Staniša Stevanović, Tomislav Kitanović, Sanja Čeković, Niko Jovanovic, Radoslav Jović, Vojislav Mihailović and Veroljub Stevanović, which is the administrative committee on 1 February 2005. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and equivalent to 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be 5 hours, and shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the parliamentary groups have failed to apply for the word, according to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the representative of Proposer Tomislav Nikolic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search, does the proposing's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on proposals for decisions in general. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – The election of members of the National Enlightenment Council For this item of the agenda, you received a report from the Committee on Education of the National Assembly on the issue of selecting members of the National Educational Council, with a summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, with biographies of candidates, made up by the Committee on Education, as well as amendments and addition of the summary lists of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, which are contained in the report of the Education Committee on the discussion of the correspondence of national minorities of Serbia-Montenegro and the Bishop's Conference of Serbia-Montenegro, as regards the selection of members of the National Educational Council. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and equivalent to 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be 5 hours, and shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I declare that the mandated representative for this agenda point in front of the SRS parliamentary group is MP Zoran Krasic, and I would like to inform you that the statements for the word have been submitted by representatives of the SRS and DS. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. I would like to inform you once again that, according to Article 89(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with the order of the MPs, submitted two parliamentary groups, so there is no need to make an alternate list, but we will go in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15792	Well, we had to report on this item of the agenda to remind the citizens, who watched one night session a year ago, when the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Education and when a patented project called the National Educational Council was adopted. Let us remind you that we have then submitted amendments to this particular member of the law, which regulated the way members of the National Educational Council were elected. Then, at the time, the minister of education, who later resigned or was relieved, but I think she resigned, refused to accept our amendments that regulate the way these members of the National Educational Council were elected. The congregation's majority, at the time of the sadly formed coalition, had rebuffed our amendments. Then it happened that, within the legally prescribed deadline for the selection of the National Educational Council, it was not possible to make a choice – the way the election was so well-conceived that there are almost 42 members and that there are some institutions that propose candidates, literally, "as horns in a bag". It's impossible to reconcile. Our Assembly Educational Committee came across a miracle because it turns out that some of these associations do not even exist formally, and it is practically impossible to come up with a proposal. In order to resolve this problem, a broad interpretation of the provisions of the law, with the courtesy of the Legislative Committee, was resorted to this summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council. Okay, I agree, and the president of the assembly. I really wouldn't have the opportunity, nor the intention of talking about the proposed candidates, because I don't know these people, or their qualities, and it would be terrible to say anything without knowing about these people. But first of all, I called to point out that the assembly majority must listen to the opposition, that the budget, measure, determine whether what the opposition proposes is worth it, is good. If you feel it's good, feel free to vote past what you got as a warrant from that coalition government of yours, because you see for yourself that when these jobs get caught people who probably have good intentions, but don't know how this job is done, then we have this situation that we don't have a National Educational Council for months. We have a situation, I won't open it much because it will be on the agenda on Tuesday, that the minister must enlighten his decisions to arrange what is in the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council. Practically, that initial error, when the amendments and the addition of the law were adopted, made a chain of errors in the entire education system. There is no National Educational Council, and you have practically forced the minister, who was present at the time, to decide, under the pressure of the National Council, on something that is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council. You take this discussion as a warning. It's a good thing the minister pulled that bill this morning when he saw what was missing. It's a shame he didn't withdraw the bill on government, because there are even bigger shortcomings there, so I don't go back to the agenda points from this session. At least two or three of the bill's proposals were severe, believe me, after a while, it appears as a boomerang. The proof of that is this item of the agenda, probably six months late, comes before the National Assembly, because it's set up so that it can't work. In this case it does not help to twist hands or threats, because there is no institution that would suggest something. So, take care when you vote on amendments, when you take political views, call on the profession a little bit, call on your own and other people's experiences. Don't rush into anything that's adventure, with a tragic end or bad consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15793	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I give my word to the MP from the list of registered speakers, first Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, and let MP Milan Veselinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15794	Thank you and thank you for calling me, so we'd be deployed, a little bit of them for us. I don't want to talk about this much for the simple reason why I think I'm getting tired of getting a culmination. We've been working for two days, and we'll probably work deep into the night tonight, and that side that should be full is half empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15795	Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15796	Of course, since I wanted to talk, I had to apply, so I raised your quorum a little bit and so did my colleagues. Of course I have an objection to how the session is supposed to be held at all, because we go in from night to night, not only in the night, but in the days when the assembly's meeting is not held, but that's why I have two principled remarks that made me feel that I have to report, and they're more legal, but they're just essential, and for me, it's, I have to admit, very important. The council was to be elected 60 days by law, 60 days from the entry into force of the law. The law came into force on 7 June 2004, and I understand that the deadline had long passed. The consequence of not being a tip on time is that last year's programmes for learning in primary and secondary education were written in the Ministry by people whose expertise is under question, by people who were not authorized to do so, and it was necessary to establish advice and to give advice to these programs. We are all fortunate that parents are not aware enough, so they did not make a question of it, because we know how the children at the beginning of the school year passed on the programmes written by Minister Colic. My second objection is to Article 11, which implies the composition of the council. The law explicitly said which structure elects how many members of the council. At point 9, we have a member from the national minority list who jointly submits to the advice of national minorities and enters the council. When I looked at the list of proposed members of the council, I realized that the Assembly, or MPs, had proposed members of the order of national minorities. However... (From O.R.: Time. Forty-two minutes, if anyone asks you, it's time. The law explicitly states under point 9 that a member of the National Council is elected from the order of national minorities. By the name of the first proposed, I would assume that it is a national minority, although I do not know it, but by the name of the second proposed I know that it is not a national minority. I simply needed to make an objection to the violation of the law and to the time when counsel was to be proposed, and also because of the way individual members were proposed, so as not to further analyze the other members. This is what was simply the most impressive and striking thing for me at first sight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15797	Thank you, Mrs. Ruzdić. I'm glad that half will now be half full. Here you are, Mr. Veselinovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15798	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as when we adopted the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, when we discussed a few days and one night all over, and about one such important matter and one important body we discuss again at night. I think the election of members of the National Educational Council deserves MPs of this high house to be heard, to be made public, and of course this is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Surely, the election of members of the National Educational Council is important for the citizens of Serbia, and that is why we Serbian radicals want to point to the gaps that this assembly majority has made since the very formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is impossible to talk here about selecting members of the National Educational Council, not mentioning the Minister of Education who did not find fit to attend this agenda. It is impossible to talk about the selection of members of the National Educational Council, not mentioning the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Why am I saying that? Because we, the Serbian Radicals, pointed out during the amendment and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System last year, sometime at this time, at the end of the regular session of the Assembly, that such a law, or such proposals on amendments and additions as you have proposed, are not good, that they create a ballast for the Ministry of Education and even regulate this matter in education. It is ballast, for this reason we have given, and only the establishment of a National Educational Council where several associations, i.e. institutions and institutions propose members of this body, as well as in that law, that is, in the current law that applies, by including some ballast such as the establishment of institutions, centres, licences and the like. We warned you about this in time and we submitted more than 40 amendments, which you ignored and you did not accept. The basis of our remarks has been shown that the Law on Systemic Solution in Education and Education is not good and that the selection of the National Educational Council will not be possible within the time limit. I'm a member of the Assembly Education Committee, and on many occasions this matter was on the agenda, but we didn't decide anything there. We simply received information as to who suggested the candidate, which institution, which institution. It lasted somewhere from August to February this year. There were proposals and candidates on those committees for which we SRS MPs had no participation. We don't know all the candidates except for some candidates and some name that's famous in education and education and higher education, or representatives of religious institutions, national minorities, representatives of professional schools and the like. However, none of us SRS MPs have proposed any member here on this list. In addition to creating ballast in this law, we believe that this advice, as it is, will be restrained by Minister of Education Slobodan Vuksanovic not to violate the law as it is, that he does not go from day to day in the affair after him. A man who doesn't seem to understand his business. He is not present here tonight, but for the sake of the public, I must say that Slobodan Vuksanovic has repeatedly broken the law, given himself some powers that do not belong to him, starting with the introduction of a "Bosnian language" on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, until the last affair about photographing students of the "Jovan Ducic" elementary school. I don't know what our Minister of Education's morale is, and what a face it is that all these affairs can endure and continue and tell his story that he's not guilty, he's not informed, that it's all transferred to another's field. During the introduction of the Bosnian language to elementary school in the Republic of Serbia in the old Raska area in the first and second classes, he denied himself; on December 23rd, the minister said that he was mentally against the introduction of "the Bosnian language". (Glass from the O.R.: theme. That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15799	Excuse us, the Messengers warn us so that you may be able to discuss the matter a little bit. The theme is the choice of the National Council, and it is proposed by the Committee, and it is elected by the Assembly and therefore, for the sake of respect of the Assembly, of course, it is not possible to attend in any way by a representative of the Government, because the government must not influence this choice, the Parliament is choosing. Please, so that advice can be controlled by the minister. So, in no way should Minister Vuksanovic be here, which is why he wasn't invited, and if he was invited, I would ask him out. That is most natural, and I ask you to speak of what is the subject of the agenda, lest the messengers warn us. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15800	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. This is the topic, the selection of members of the National Educational Council elected by the Assembly and who will represent our education. I don't know why the Minister of Education or anyone could not come to this congregation, and he found fit to be present on congregation committees, where this matter was debated. He found the same there to be. As far as the Minister of Education is concerned, you will have enough to hear about him now, if you have any power, this item of the agenda has to be put in place, to adopt and become the assembly item of the agenda on which we will discuss these issues concerning the affairs of the Minister of Education. I think that's what the citizens expect, and I say from this pay phone openly, the Minister of Education had to resign before this last affair.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15801	Please, for the dignity of the Assembly, do not argue with the MPs. Be nice. Let's talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15802	Why is the election of members of the National Educational Council now delayed? That is why, as I said in the opening note, because the Law on the Foundations of the Education System is not good because you brought it to "mouses" or to the congregation majority. That's why it's been almost eight months since we've had members of the National Educational Council. Now I'm going to read you article 11, remind you of what it really took and it had to be done. Listen now. In Article 11. The council has 42 members. There are a number of categories here, which should be proposed by the National Educational Council. The applicants of the list set out in Article 3 shall be obliged to submit the lists of candidates for members of the Council two months before the term of office of members of the Council which they propose. They had two months to propose and didn't do it. Next attitude. The list referred to in Article 3 shall contain more candidates than the number of members to be elected. Then, if the applicant does not submit the list within the time limit set out in Article 4 of this Article, the National Assembly shall elect members of the Council from the order of the prescribed structure. So we had to do this job a long time ago and that members of the National Educational Council were elected long ago. Unfortunately, until today, the members of the National Educational Council have not been elected, and therefore the minister has a great space to maneuver, to continue doing illegal acts, to behave arrogantly and normally that what is happening on our political scene. We Serbian radicals, as I said at the beginning, do not have our representatives and candidates in this National Educational Council. We personally do not know or know them in part, but I must say that these structures that are represented and the candidates who are proposed are probably depicting the congregation majority here, and they are probably this congregation majority or group that makes this majority known. There will be time, only you have no nerve to listen. You're probably in a hurry, but I want to say openly that we should all talk about this, especially these candidates that you have proposed or perhaps close to your parties. In the end, let me say that this item of the agenda should be made known by you who participated in the proposals. We Serbian radicals will probably not support those members of the National Educational Council who have no credibility behind them, who has criminal activities behind them, or perhaps some immoral actions, if we find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15803	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. That's the purpose of the election, therefore, that everyone votes for the member who will. The word has been made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, I will wait for you to insert the card. Otherwise, to avoid confusion, it is a clear point that two months before the term of office, the position cannot apply to a council that has not been elected. You know, we have to pick him out first so there's no misunderstanding, so you can explain. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word and let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, exactly a year ago, we were here discussing amendments and additions to the law on the foundations of the education system, and then we made that first precedent. We stayed until dawn in this room when we talked about amendments to that bill. Of course, the most amendments had the SRS and, of course, the majority of the congregation did not accept those amendments. What is controversial in the Law and what we have pointed to at that time is a member of the 11th current Law, which refers to the National Educational Council. According to that Article 11. The National Educational Council has 42 members and is prescribed a procedure for proposing and selecting these members. At that time, we pointed to problems that may arise and which later proved to be in practice regarding the proposal of members of the National Educational Council. Namely, the promoter imposed a legal obligation on certain professional associations, groups, institutions to propose a number of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, and I then spoke to this speaker and warned that no one should impose that obligation, that no one could commit any association, union or anyone else, to participate in this if there was no interest and will. However, the position of the proposings and the parliamentary majority was to do so, that it was good for this country, for education, for education of this country and so it was done. Article 11 also provides for the National Education Council to be appointed in this assembly within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. It is also foreseen that, within 30 days, all authorised proposings should be made known and delivered to the committee responsible for their proposals. That's where the problems started. Problems have arisen, as some promoters did not deliver their candidates in good time. The Committee has held several times on several occasions, several times sending notices, requests from authorised proposings to deliver their proposals on what they were deaf of. So they had no desire, no will, and no interest in participating in all this. The Committee held several meetings on the same topic as how to overcome the problem. The Committee held meetings on 19 August, 3 November, 23 December, 14 and 19 January. Five meetings to resolve the problem, because the law did not provide for a clear and decadent procedure for selecting members of the National Council. The deadline for the appointment of members of the National Education Council expired on 5 August 2004. Gentlemen, it's almost a year ago, to be exact, 10 months ago. We've been waiting 10 months for the National Educational Council, and the law here was passed and worked until dawn, because it was urgent, because it was the end of May, it was the end of the school year. The law was to be passed so that everything in education could go according to the law. Then we wait 10 months to solve the basic matter, the basic problem, and that's the National Educational Council. Furthermore, it is not only a matter of procedure, in the proposings, that the problem has arisen that we have stopped when authorised proposings did not want to propose their candidates. The Committee came into a situation where it did not know how to overcome this problem, so the Committee addressed the Legislative Committee, asking the Legislative Committee to give advice on how the problem could be overcome. The solution was found that MPs were also empowered to propose, so they too could propose, so they would sit down and fill out what the mandated promoters did not do, so the other MPs, mostly members of the board of the ruling coalition, gave their proposals by what principles, rules and criteria. So we finally got this list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council after 10 months. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in our education is, I will not say catastrophic, but very close to it. This government is probably the most inconclusive in terms of education and the least seriousness it has shown in this field of education. That's what I'm confirming by the arguments and the fact that in a year, she changed two ministers of education, and that we changed four presidents of the Education Committee. I will also support this by the fact that we have a lot of affairs in the field of education and that, both the government and the resolution minister, but it seems to me that most of all the Board of Education is silent about these affairs, does not schedule sessions, does not discuss these affairs, is not discussed on the Committee and is not looking for solutions from the Government, or the competent ministry. As the current minister is inconsistencies, unprincipled and does not act according to the law, he does not respect the Assembly and the board of directors, Mr Veselinovic has just shown and proved by that story of the introduction of "Bosnian language" in schools in the Rasko area. Mr. Minister himself said at the Committee's session that he would not accept it and that he could not accept it until the opinion of the competent institutions that would make it clear from a professional point of view. And then overnight after three days I approved teaching in the Bosnian language in the Raska area. Of course, that's the story we're going to talk about on Tuesday, I hope we'll have a debate here on the government's trust, or mistrust of the minister of education, and then we'll be able to justify why we started this initiative and why this minister can't stay at the head of Serbian education. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about the names that were proposed here, it's about people I don't know. At the vote, we will define ourselves according to their professional and moral qualities, but I just wanted to show you, there are problems in the law itself. I suggested last fall on a committee not to compromise, not to break the law, to approach the amendments to the law. They said then that it was urgent, that we didn't have time to change the law, that we had to urgently appoint the National Educational Council. Here, it's been six months, maybe more, we haven't named him, and we could have changed the law in six or seven months, to make the law better than it is now, to be precise, unequivocal and clear to the end. The most important thing about the National Educational Council is that no one is forced to propose or participate in this body, but that the ministry is doing so in the manner in which it is authorized and able to do so. I'm sorry I took a little time. Once again, I ask all MPs to come forward according to the professional and moral qualities of the people who are proposed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15805	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15806	Ladies and gentlemen, what I was saying here last night was that I was slowly coming to fatigue, not slowly, but to total fatigue. It's kind of strange for me to be present, which is few, which should be much more in this case, I'm going to use an expression that might be difficult, unseriously related to this subject. You can throw away, but education is the most sensitive subject and the most sensitive segment of life in our country. If you don't set the foundation properly, your house will be weak. The foundations are right on the children, and this very educational council, which was to be chosen, should have been chosen as soon as possible, not because, as some say, let's criticise the minister, not to criticise or condemn them, but to control them and help them. Maybe a lot of things would have been premeditated, a lot of failures would have been stopped, or there wouldn't have been if the minister had had someone to contact, someone to guide him and help him. We can't blame the minister for everything, but I have a story for him later, where we're going to well criticize him, and especially for what, I'm not going to say that hard word, deceived us about the introduction of this language. To go back to this advice. The ministerial post is quite a slippery terrain, one of the slipperyest and most sensitive, and this one, however, is a bit gentle and can be very easily slipped. Cholicka was a little more stable, but if God sent her from that place or Darwin, I don't know. Just now someone mentioned God and the oath and our messenger, no longer ours, far away. Maybe he kept his hand on Darwin's theory when he took an oath, didn't know it was the Gospel. So, he's late a lot. I'm not going to make any remarks now to the board president, with whom we have extraordinary co-operation, but I insist and urge that this be done as soon as possible, to help children, enlighten and parents, as well as the minister himself. I'm not gonna take your time anymore, because it's really late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-20-0.u15807	Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more registered to us, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposed candidates for members and president of the National Educational Council in the voting day. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE TRUTH ON NEW CHILDREN MURDERED IN MORE CITY IN SERBIA You received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by a group of 22 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Presentations and Proposals I remind you that, pursuant to Article 156(3), Article 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the parliamentary groups have not applied for a word, pursuant to Article 156(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the proposing representative, MP Ivica Dacic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Presentations and Proposals want to say, MP Blagoja Krajinović? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more registered to us for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly, in the day of voting, will decide on a proposal for a decision, in general. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF ARCHIVE CITY THAT IS KEEPING IN THE MUSE OF NIKOLE TESLE, AS THE PERSONAL FOND OF NICOLE, FOR CULTURAL GOOD FROM EXCIPIENTLY REFERENTLY, YOU HAVE received the proposal for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. You have received an amendment from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Archive Building List. Since the Committee on Culture and Information has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become part of the draft law. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Since we have conducted a unique search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE STRATEGY OF THE Development OF THE ENERGETICS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA by 2015. You received a motion for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly, in the framework of a joint search on the 7, 15 and 23rd agenda, carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. We move to the 28th point of the agenda: – DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES REFERRED TO INSTRUMENTS, DECISION ON PAYMENTS IN THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICANT INFORMATION AUTHORITIES AUTHORITIES OF THE INSTITUTION AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICANT INFORMATION, THE PUBLICANT OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION OF THE PUBLIC A PUBLICANT OF PUBLICANTING INFORMATION. You have received a report from the Administrative Board, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner's act on information of public importance. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the proposing representative, MP Ivica Dacic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does he wish to say the rapporteur of the Administrative Committee, Petar Cvetkovic, vice president of the Administrative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a decision to give its consent to acts of trustee for information of public importance, in general. We move to the 30th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I remind you of all rights to Article 156. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's Parliament of the Prophets, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Since we have conducted a unique search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. We move to the 31st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - Boris Tadic. I remind you of all rights to Article 156. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Markovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Since we have conducted a unique search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda: – The election of the Ninth Member of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia has been received by the proposed candidates for the selection of nine members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, who have submitted the previously elected members of the Council. You've received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information. I would like to remind you that at the session of the First Extraordinary Session in 2005, held on 17 February 2005, the National Assembly elected eight members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, on a proposal from authorised promoters, and the ninth member should be elected on a proposal from previously elected members of the Council, in accordance with Article 23. Radio-diffusion law. List for the selection of the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, in accordance with Article 24(1). The law on broadcasting contains only one candidate. I remind you of all rights to Article 156. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in voting day on the election of the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Dear Members of the People, I thank you for your appropriate and responsible work all these days. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure, on Monday, May 23rd, at 13.00 p.m., as a day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you and everyone who can rest I want a nice weekend. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I apologize for this delay, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 229 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, we will work until the end of the vote today. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the law on the market of paper and other financial institutions Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, in principle. For 129, against 90, seven of the 226 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle and we move on to a decision on amendments. I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Boris Karaicic to Article 1. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 128, two of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 128, two of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 226, two of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 101, against 109 abstentions 19, one of 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 128, two of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 127, they did not vote three out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia, based on Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and due to the previously accepted amendment of MP Boris Karaičić to Article 1 which became an integral part of the bill, submitted the amendment to Article 3. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against 30, it did not vote 75 out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Branislav Rankic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103 against 128, he did not vote one of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Decision on the existence of general interest in the feedback of certain provisions of the draft law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 4. The draft law provides that the provisions of Article 1(1) point (1). 1) - 3) and Article 2. The draft law has a feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee concluded that there is a general interest in the feedback of those provisions. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put in Article 4. Proposal for a law of the order of Article 1(1). 1) - 3) and Article 2) of the Bills have a return to the fact that there is a general interest. For 129 against 104 of 233 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 1 paragraph 1. 1) - 3) and Article 2) of the draft law contained in Article 4. It's a bill of law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 198, against 34, one of 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, in general. For 129, against 102, two of the 233 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Market in Securities and Other Financial Instruments. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Action Fund Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Action Fund, in principle. For 163, against 67, three of the 233 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Jovan Palalic as member of the 2nd and Peter Jojic to Article 16. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 142, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of 231 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 156, there was no vote of 73, out of 230 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The Prime Minister and the Privatisation Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 102, against 126, two out of 230 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 128, they did not vote 34 out of 231 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 158, the abstention one, did not vote four out of 233 ambassadors. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. A representative of the government accepted this amendment at a session of the National Assembly. The Privatisation Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 160, against two, he did not vote 71, of 233 ambassadors. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. A representative of the government accepted this amendment at a session of the National Assembly. The Privatisation Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 227, against one, abstention one, they did not vote four out of 233 ambassadors. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Karaicic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 158, six of the 232 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. A representative of the government accepted this amendment at a session of the National Assembly. The Privatisation Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 230, against one, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, of 233 people's ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Boris Karaicic submitted an amendment to Article 6, proposing the addition of a new member of 11a. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 156, six out of 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 127, it did not vote seven out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 126, three of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 130, they did not vote 34 out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, there were no 38 votes, of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the action fund law in general. For 162 against 70, not one of 233 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the action fund law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of Privatization Laws After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the privatisation law in principle. For 161, v 68, abstention one, were not voted by three, of 233 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, in the course of a review of the bill in particular, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic withdrew amendments to Articles 15 and 22. The bill's proposal, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill became amendments to the MPs: Verice Radite to Article 2, Jovan Palalić to Article 10, with correction, Aleksandr Vlahovic to Article 23 and Nemanje Sarovic to Article 37. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 34, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stefanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 138, they did not vote four out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 126, four of the 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 129, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 34, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 157, seven of the 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 105, abstention 21, he did not vote 71, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 127, they did not vote 73 out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Vlahovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against 105, two of the 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 104 against 127, they did not vote two out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 125, it did not vote 75 out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103 against 108, with 17 abstentions, four of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 128, 35 of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 126, 37 of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs Boris Karaičić and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 137, two abstentions, three of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. Representative, Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 128, 36 of the 232 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Jovan Todorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. A representative of the Proposer, the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 108, they did not vote 33 out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 108, 35 of the 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 124, six out of 233 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 31st Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 126, they did not vote 73, of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Vlahovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 105, with 20 abstentions, they did not vote 44, out of 232 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 135, it did not vote seven out of 233 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 199, against 31, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 232 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The proposing representative and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, two of the 233 MPs did not vote against 103. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act in general. Just a moment, excuse me, please, professional service is asking for a moment. Please, since two amendments have been accepted in the same text, the Legislative Committee must have meetings to confirm and inform us, I would ask for a 15-minute break to meet the Legislative Committee.
