ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12121	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I knew that I would wait for the replica without the presence of Minister Lalovic, because he knows that it is embarrassing for him himself to say this, but that is why it will come to the approval of most MPs in the voting day, and above all the representatives of the union of employees and workers in Serbia, because it is an amendment to Article 243. For the sake of the public and for you who were not here yesterday, I must remind you that this is about the amendment of Mr Dusan Mrvos, Dr Zarko Obradovic, and the same amendment in the essential sense I submitted. It is that we are actually looking, the MPs of the SRS, and they have also asked the gentlemen mentioned, that the government be one of the guarantors in "the conclusion of a collective contract between the employer and the employee, or representatives of the union". As things stand, I must inform Mr. Minister, in this way, since he is not in the O.R., one of his members will pass on to him, one MP from this party has entered the O.R., in the day of the vote, an amendment to Article 243 will be voted. I can't say that, but if other colleagues stay on the principle they put out here, as the SRS does, it will happen, and Mr. Minister was on national television last night in a conversation with the president of the Independent Union of Serbia and in an address with "Miko and Lale" said the law would withdraw if the amendment to Article 243 was adopted. Therefore, it is necessary that, colleagues from the SPS, I believe that they will do so in the next amendment, and colleagues from the NS, or the SPS, who are in the joint parliamentary club, once again tell the minister that they will vote for the SRS amendment, or theirs in the same text, and then you can inform him not to enter the hall, because he said the law would withdraw. What does that really mean? And the minister's behavior, and above all, the short fuse he has, it's said to the people, that he says about our arguments last night at the end of the debate that they're pointless, pointless and they're back to the past! I must remind Mr. Minister, I suppose this lady and this one of his MPs present will tell him about the period he's talking about returning to the old many workers in Serbia today are dreaming. It was not a golden time and did not run honey and milk, but workers also had a job under former law before the "Lopovsky Milovanovic" because it was voted for by stealing votes in the Assembly, with the help and organisation of the DS, workers had the government's guarantee. Since the minister is obviously incapable of guaranteeing on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia a general collective agreement, he should withdraw the law and make it even better to resign, or the entire government, if he cannot be guaranteed to stand behind it. I will continue with concrete examples and with counterargumentation of last night's statement by the Minister on the amendment that I will have, almost identically, is actually just a technical matter, such as this mentioned colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12122	To be clear, we are talking about the amendment tabled by NS MP Dusan Mrvos and together SPS MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Dusan Mrvos reported and then Zoran Krasic. Mr. Stevanović has given up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12123	Ladies and gentlemen, in the opening exposé of Mr Lalovic, it was said that this law, among other things, is the paper and the essence of this law, puts social dialogue, i.e. collective bargaining as a dominant form of agreement. That's great. That's the most sincere thing to do, and that's the principle in Western European countries as well. There is a social dialogue category of bargaining and this collective bargaining is practically dominant bargaining. I will only list examples of the two Western European countries that have done this. Ireland did it in 1987, with one audit in 2000. There is no problem with unemployment in Ireland. The Netherlands did it in 1982, and the Netherlands is in such a situation now that, at a time when everything stops in the Netherlands, everything stops working, no one works, for another 50 years, they can live on the same level as they do now. That principle is remarkable and on that side I absolutely support that part of the labour law and part of the minister's presentation. On the other hand, social dialogue is always composed or has three participants. On the one hand, they're employers, on the other hand they're representative unions, and on the third hand it's a government-wide state. Why would that be different with us? The government has the most clearly defined role in this agreement and, frankly, the government has the greatest power to decide and create any law, except, of course, the National Assembly, and the laws and miles for social dialogue and miles for the development of the country. At the time when all partners reach their agreement, or not their own, but to reach an agreement on the most important problems in their country, when the ways and times of solving these problems are defined, the national consensus is then reached, i.e. the so-called The social pact, and only then can each of these partners do their job and the state is making progress. As far as I know, the Prime Minister knows what he's doing and he's behind it. And most ministers know what he's doing and he's behind it. Why is it a problem for Mr Lalovic to accept this amendment and the government to be one of the signatories of the general contract – that by his signature or signature of the government's representative, the government will be guaranteed these general terms or so on. the national consensus reached between the employer or employers, between the trade unions and the state. I'll tell you one thing. General collective agreement, or let's try to quickly clarify what it looks like for people who are not in that matter, and why everyone would be in this matter: there is a general collective agreement that applies to the entire territory of the country, to all branches and to all employees; there is a border contract for each branch separately; there are territorial collective agreements and individual collective agreements. In a general collective agreement that applies to the whole country, to all branches and to all workers, general things are defined, basic things, the minimum of which later moves towards collective bargaining on branches, territories or between trade unions and employers within one company. The general collective agreement says, here is news in the newspaper, "Evening News", among other things, the third party -- it is agreed that the minimum profit is 6.993 dinars, meaning 7,000 dinars. The general contract says the minimum wage will be so much that the hours are eight o'clock. Not the government, or not in the general contract working hours, remains between employers and trade unions to agree whether to work from 6:00 to 2:00 or work from 9:00 to 5:00. The state is guaranteed to work eight hours. Anyone who complains and says that the employer makes him work for more than eight hours has the right to protect himself and to seek the help of the state. The State shall send its inspections, etc. I don't see why if we want to pass this law that's much better than the current Labour Act, then why should the government that the law proposes to the National Assembly and this National Assembly not accept the possibility that this government that proposed to the National Assembly and the National Assembly that will adopt the law will not be guarantees of general things that practically create miles for development, investment, etc. (President: Time. I'm finishing up another sentence, so the essence of the story is just one. What we do and what we suggest we stand behind it and guarantee it. The government has proposed legislation, so why shouldn't the government be, because it is already a participant in this social dialogue, through its representatives as one of the three entities and then why wouldn't the government be a signator of this general contract and these general things and by its authority the Government has guaranteed in this case both employers and employees. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12124	Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12125	In addition to the principled disagreement of the conceptal nature that SRS MPs have expressed over the past few days, it must be pointed out: this government has promised to make real institutions; the government has promised that the state will be guaranteed; individual ministers in this government, and recognizable by the words - problems and results, have also pledged to solve the problem among others and this problem. Last year, the government proposed a Law on the Social Economic Council, it proposed a Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, the law that is on the agenda and announced a series of laws that directly or indirectly touch the matter of working-law relations. If this is all promised by this government, then this government must not escape from the collective bargaining process, it must not escape, because it is the employer, perhaps the largest employer in this country, and directly in the case of employees in the authorities of the state administration, which is indirectly when it comes to employees in local self-government, public services and public enterprises. The government must not avoid collective bargaining for another reason, and that is because it is the only one responsible for the country's economic policy. It is due to enter this process and agree in this dialogue at the end of each year the lowest labour price to be the rapper and basis for the award and evaluation of work in the Republic of Serbia. There is no clear economic policy in this country if the labour price is left to the freedom to negotiate and negotiate only between the employer and the union. Then the state will have another situation, that it comes to a non-critical, selective one, and it can appear even after several years and conclusion, to the misreplacement of personnel from one branch and one area into something else. Therefore, the government must be a mandatory participant in collective bargaining when it comes to the general collective agreement. She can't avoid it. All ILO conventions aimed at regulating the relationship between employers', trade unions, trade unions and states, employees and states, employees and employers, if they foresee the possibility of collective bargaining, are based on the three-page principle. All we have here is a clear message from this government that she doesn't want to be a participant in collective bargaining. He doesn't want to have an obligation, he doesn't want to be guaranteed, he doesn't want to run a coherent economic policy, he wants that economic policy run by the capillaries of this system! If the government avoids its participation in the process of adopting and amending the general collective agreement, then this government makes it clear to everyone that it is not interested in work, employees, profits, interests, and in the end that part of human rights that concerns work and work!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12126	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, so Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we advocate that the Serbian Government be a mandatory participant in the conclusion of a general collective agreement. It's not a new solution for us. That solution has been with us all along, from 1990 to 2001. If the government is not involved in the conclusion of a general collective agreement, we will not have credible participants. We can't talk about union credibility today, sort of an independent union, even though we're not the most satisfied work of running the Independent Union. If we're talking about these other unions, Branislav Canak and the Independence Union are not at all representative. These days, according to our information, Branislav Canak collects some signatures from peasants, from agricultural producers; one 50,000 such routes because it is an amendment to Article 243 and then an independent union will be representative. You know, farmers haven't even heard of an independent union, and far from supporting it, because we all know the engagement of Branislav Chanka. He is the same as Natasa Kandić, Sonja Biserko and Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo: they have all been on the same mission since 1990 until today. If we're talking about the employers' association, do we have representative associations? Well, so to speak, we don't have any. There is one union with 10-15% coverage when it comes to membership. Of course, this is where Bogoljub Karic is pushed on the big door as president of some phantom industrialist association. Minister Lalovic is not here, I would warn him, Bogoljub Karic can fool Lalovic, so Slobodan Milosevic, our president, has cheated a hundred times. He used the Fund's resources, he used various loans, but instead of building factories in Kosovo and Metohija, he built villas on Dedinj! That's true!- I'm sorry. In Serbia today anything is possible! So, in these conditions where we don't have credible employers' associations, when unions are suspicious about protecting employees, the government has to be guaranteed a minimum of the rights of all employees. We're very different conceptally from the promoter, and that's true, and he was saying it on TV last night. Minister Lalovic has come from the DOS since 2001. You know what their currency was – only the market, the market will solve everything. The market didn't solve anything! We are witnesses, a few years ago, that the market has not solved anything in the surrounding countries. Who's pushing that concept? First of all, it imposes the IMF and the World Bank. In all countries and in Serbia, in the previous three years, since 5 October, it has happened in the same way. There were several phases of this concept: – the first phase is the sale of companies. It was a company sale and no sales were good. Even those sales, such as cementists, were not good sales, as the number of employees was reduced, for example. at a cement store in Paracino, from 2,800 to 700 workers. Then there's no money for pension and health funds or taxes. The number of workers has been reduced. – The second stage is reportedly a market-based price base, a euphemism for a major increase in prices and electricity and utility. You know everything's been picked up ten times. – the third stage is the liberalisation of the capital market, where investors are reportedly coming. No one came from the investors, unless we count these sales, where the money went into the budget and spent, and all was followed only by the liquidation of banks and the bankruptcy of the economy. So that concept proved to be incorrect. It is possible to go with another concept like it is in Slovenia, as it is in some other countries. Minister Lalovic is deeply wrong when he insists on this concept. Let me finish when it comes to the amendment. We are pushing for the Serbian government to be a "mandatory participant" in the conclusion of a general collective agreement, because it is the best guarantee for the minimum rights of employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12128	National MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12129	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 243 submitted by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, of course... (President: that amendment is later, we are now talking about Mr. Mr. Gristle's amendment to the same member. )......................................................................................................... The same is the essence of the amendment, only one word has been changed, which speaks of the need for the government to participate in the conclusion of a collective agreement, alongside representative trade unions and representative employers. It is necessary that the government also participates as a tripartite partner in the decision-making and conclusion of a collective agreement. So it's clear here that the government wants to push the cowardly egg to employers and trade unions, that they decide for themselves the fate of workers. However, it is necessary for the government to take part because, of course, the government is the biggest guarantee in concluding a collective agreement. Simply put, Karic, Smiljanic and Lalovic would negotiate. These are the current representatives of the three sides, which would conclude a collective agreement, of course, to be better for Serbian workers. However, Mr Lalovic has repeatedly said that the amendments to the SRS and the SPS have brought us back to the past. I have to point out Article 179, which speaks of nine ways to fire a worker. This article 179 is also the most important after which this 243, which gives the highest protection to the working class. Of course that finding to return to the past doesn't make any sense. It brings me back to that story, gentlemen of the DS, who say that if we change the Labour Act, apparently, that way we'll drive foreign partners who are very interested in our economy. Therefore, we cannot give them the hard-earned factories that our fathers and grandfathers built, while giving them free labour and that they can develop their business in Serbia, and we can be their slaves for life. So, as Minister Lalovic says, we now need these crocodiles to be victims. Gentlemen, these crocodiles mentioned by Minister Lalovic, they don't shed tears over the real crocodiles who shed tears when they firmly tighten their victim into their jaws. The previous speaker mentioned the suspicions of union representatives. That Mile and Lal, we saw last night's show on the first RTS program. There have been obvious examples, since 2000, of union representatives. One of them was Vranusha, who gave fire speeches on all local and state televisions, defending, hitting on the chest, protecting the interests of the workers. The previous government has found a way to calm him down, which is to immediately put him on the EPS Management Board. So did the previous minister, a working class leader, set up as minister for labour and employment. The current minister has come as well. So, since 2000, this government has a clear goal of how to put an end to all the rebellions; by sharing them with good functions, high wages and hitting the workers, you are damaged, you are like this, and your pocket in the first place. That's why I'm saying there are far better examples. These are trade unions in TENT, in TE "Collabara", where union representatives provide their workers with ideal conditions for summering and wintering, especially disabled jobs in the spa. I had a few more interesting questions for Mr. Secretary, but since he's not present, so much for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12130	National MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12131	Dear People's MPs, there is a hierarchy of legal regulations in every legal system that determines the rights and obligations of citizens. The labour law, it used to be called "the labor constitution," but a law like this that was proposed, can't be called a labor constitution. Despite the attempts by the SRS parliamentary group to amend the bad text of the bill, many provisions, repair, unfortunately, the government has not accepted many of these amendments, none of the amendments that are essential to protect this law but to protect workers in a difficult position from coming DOS to power; and now the extended DOS continues to humiliate workers throughout Serbia, through the abolition of basic labour rights, basic rights to profit and to naked life. Avoiding the Serbian government as a participant in the conclusion of a general collective agreement is the escape from the truth and responsibility for the state of workers in Serbia. If the general collective contract, following the Labour Act, is a roof collective contract, the question is, how can, under Article 245, the Government or the municipality or other local authorities be involved in the conclusion of a special collective contract, as founders, and the Government, which is the founder of the republican public enterprises, cannot, and on the other hand, is directly responsible for the restructuring of 63 large enterprises in Serbia. Apparently, according to the Republic Government programme, unfortunately, these large enterprises, with more than 200,000 workers, are left to destruction. He probably wants to go through the bankruptcy proceedings, why they should be sold in bankruptcy proceedings. The robbery privatisation, which takes place two years ago, with praise that the process should be accelerated, in order to achieve the objectives of the employers, and the previous government, to destroy Serbia's economy, and when Serbia's economy is destroyed, it is easy to rule the hungry workers, the hungry people. It was explained in an amendment by MP Natasa Jovanovic that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not a member of any employers' association. If you look at Article 243, what were the previous speakers talking about here, who are these representative employers' associations? It was said this -- whether Karic is the representative leader of those employers who represent the power and strength of Serbia, as he called his movement. In the King we have a representative of the so-called Industrialists' associations, the owner of the Builder Radenkovic, who destroyed with the rest of the company "Kablar" and now the workers of the "Cablara" are out of work. Even those poor compensations they received from the municipal court in three and a half years can't be made through the Trade Court. Whether the fate will be experienced and the workers of Magnochroma, workers of the Car Factory, when these two large collectives in the Kingdom are being driven into bankruptcy, and unfortunately, on the boards of the Magnochroma and the Cars factories, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are sitting. On the board of directors, Igor Tadic is now an adviser to the economy of President Tadic. As Magnochrom stands best known workers in the King; out of 5,500 workers there were 2,200 of whom only half of them receive a profit, while others come to work at 10.00, no work, return at one or two afternoons. The bottom line is two different concepts -- fleeing, as said the minister who is not present here, with his exhibitions that are attempts to humiliate the SRS MPs and the amendments they have submitted, that everything proposed by the SRS MPs is back to normal. You don't need to run from anything that represents... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And old, if he's all right. Unfortunately, this concept that has been applied since 2000 is the destruction of both the economy and the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. This concept of the IMF has been well experienced by Argentina, Indonesia and many countries in the world, but it does not give up on this concept here, because these tasks should be completed until the end. I hope that what the SPS and NS MPs have said will remain consistent, so at a cost, if the minister has not withdrawn the bill by now, to do so now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12132	Thank you. Let's go again, so there is no confusion, we are now talking about the amendment submitted by Dusan Mrvos, the MP from New Serbia and the MPs from the SPS, Mr Obradovic and Mr Petronijevic. Concentrate on what we're talking about. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic. The amendments are similar, I totally understand, but they're just a minimum of concentration. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Just to finish Mr. Baralic, you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected members of the leadership of the Independent Union, MPs Dusan Mrvos, Milisav Petronijevic, Dr Zarko Obradovic, submitted an amendment to the draft law on work on Article 243 which is being changed and read, as we have received an explanation. We think a few more sentences should be said here - the general collective contract is one of the most important flows of union struggle. Those who don't understand it are pushing the union into those positions to deal with those issues that need to be resolved by other laws or regulations that regulate protection at work and things like that. It's perfectly normal for a working man who's a callionic, a hatchet, a miner to have a liter of milk every day because of the coal dust, because of the spontaneous, for evaporation, etc. It's normal for medical workers working in the radiation zone to have lead aprons. It is normal for other workers who do heavy work to have those means of security that are necessary for them to do their job safely. It's perfectly normal for workers to work eight hours. In Čačka in the "Car Lazar" cafe, which has been in place for 100 years, there is a monument-plate that has been erected "three eights" – eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours of cultural ascension. It was the subject of a union struggle from the Socialist Workers' Movement 100 years ago. The union doesn't have to deal with it today. The union should deal with those issues that are on the agenda right now. When a union is representative, counterpart Mrvos has given a highly correct elaborate, then it should be in this relationship, as this amendment envisions, with the government. Who's that scaring? Who's afraid of an organized and powerful union, he actually has other ideas, that he's making little unions that are going to screw up a union fight that's easier to manage. That's what we saw, not to repeat, all the colleagues sitting here. This amendment better regulates, in a clearer way, not as it is said here, as those who oppose our arguments say, that in this way the government commits itself to doing something that is the past. On the contrary, this is how the government puts itself in a position to participate in something that is very important for millions or two million people who are in a working relationship. I suppose the government as an executive authority that assumes responsibility for the exercise of power, given to it by the parliamentary majority, elected by the people, should not fear its workers and its union. It should be expressed in such a way as to accept this amendment. If they don't, they'll have rich individuals who can directly influence, lobby. There is no law on lobbying in this country yet, I hear it is in preparation, which will be able to influence the various legal projects on the sidelines, without knowing who is proposing them, on whose behalf they come and why someone has accepted them. This way, by accepting this amendment, these things are regulated in a better way. To say in the end, the claim that this is a reverse could also be the claim that this is a step forward. 100 years ago, these same unions fought to cut these wages to eight hours, to pay extended labor, so they were fired, so they were arrested by the gendarmes, which is why they were in the credentials. It can't possibly be that left-wing solutions in the labour law are turning back. Once again, I want to say, we speak here on behalf of the workers. Employers are capable enough, rich enough, powerful enough to lobby representatives of government in every country in the world through their associations and other informal and non-social lobbying groups. That's why I'm voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12134	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12135	Mr. President, it is my advice to you to concentrate on holding a session, not to share such sermons with the MPs of the SRS who are very responsible, the honorable, who protect the interests of workers and who for days are trying to convince the minister, who is not here and I ask you to tell me in the end where Minister Lalovic is, do you know where Minister Lalović is at the moment we are discussing this!? That's what I'm asking you to answer me after I tell you where you hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you don't know, try the department to find out if the minister is in the building and that's my second question!? If it's in the building, if you get a confirmed answer, why isn't it in the O.R. when it comes to discussing the key amendment to Article 243 without whom, or as he suggested, the law has no purpose! It's all the same as it was. You hurt a 99th member who says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda," and you objected to the MPs of the SRS not to talk about it. They speak, and they tell us nicely, both Mr. Stevanović and Mr. Cetrovic, that they are talking about an amendment that is essentially the same as the one that Mr. Dusan Mrvos and Zarko Obradovic submitted, and that the amendment of the SRS, whose bearer I am, is essentially the same. Perhaps you have forgotten that the Constitutional Court, whose head is still this Vučetic, a great expert in G17, made a decision, after more than a year or two, MPs can, and that is Article 137. Rules of Procedure, to speak about other amendments by applicants from other parliamentary groups. Moreover, by the way, as President of the Assembly, you have not made an effort for a year to provide us with the information provided by the Constitutional Court, and as regards amendments and other matters, to deliver the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure – only so much about you and your concern for the respect of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12136	I'm obliged to give an explanation and an explanation to the Rules of Procedure. I will tell Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is the chairman of the Administrative Board, that you have the objection that he did not do what the responsibility of the Administrative Board, which is to order the professional service to deliver the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, which is now a reminder and a secretary and I thank you. At the same time, I haven't been President of the Assembly in a year, but I only take care of facts, so I guess most of them know that. When it comes to Article 99, he explicitly says, as you quoted in your first position, that the MP is obliged to speak about what is on the agenda. I warned all MPs about it, and I don't know where you got the idea that I called up some MP group, because I didn't mention any MP groups. I asked all MPs to concentrate, because already several speakers, and I am not making that kind of difference to pay attention to which parliamentary groups, in their performance, quoted a completely wrong amendment, so I warned them to concentrate on what amendment we are talking about, and of course, by retaining the right of MPs to "the Constitutional Court's decision" that they can also talk about the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, which they are doing. There's one such debate going on right now. I don't know if you're satisfied with the clarification or not. No, you're not. ) Then the Assembly will declare this in the voting day, and now, please, again according to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12137	Mr. President, you don't detest the MPs from the bench because I'm reporting again, by another member, but because you're inexhaustible. They resent your reasoning, not that I report back. Article 28. The Rules of Procedure say that you, as president of the Assembly, are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you, as the President of the Assembly, are, as you say, less than a year old, to count on you the one day when you didn't know if you were more president of the Assembly, perhaps with that day, 365 days, and maybe not, it doesn't matter. There's a day in 2004 when you had a dilemma about whether you'd be or not the president of the assembly, you might have forgotten that. So, you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it is completely hypocritical and incorrect that a man like this Assembly has been appointed – from the beginning of the multi-party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is fortunately the chairman of the Administrative Board, can point to mistakes when you make them, you transfer them in his absence, "he did not do so by the Administrative Committee!"- I'm sorry. I spoke to you personally, and I told you that you, as Parliament Speaker, didn't bother to do so, and otherwise, regardless of what is now being denied, you spoke to the MPs after the presentation of Parliamentarian Cetrovic, and said that they should concentrate on what they say. I am telling you that according to article 99, the MP has the right to speak only about what is on the agenda, and Mr Cetrovic had just done so, as did Mr Stevanović before him. So, you didn't follow what's going on or you don't know what's on the agenda, and you're left with me to answer where Minister Lalovic is right now, and I want to know if the President of the Assembly has information on where the minister is, is he in the building and if he is, why didn't he enter the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12138	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. So, since I am obliged to work on the Rules of Procedure and I advocate that the law be the same for everyone, you quoted a good member, but I didn't even tell you about that member, but about a member of 69 who says what the Administrative Committee is doing. He says, "The Committee shall follow the application of this Rules of Procedure, consider and make proposals for its amendments and additions and give an opinion to the National Assembly, at its request, on the application of certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure." Since you made the request, I have informed the Assembly that I will inform the President of the Administrative Committee about which I have not said anything wrong, because I do not know why, and that I will inform him that there is such a request and that something is done, and of course, that the professional service will be at his disposal. Just a moment – I realized, let what is not my obligation under the Rules of Procedure, since there was insistence, to answer, therefore, the President of the Assembly is not obliged to give notices where a minister is located, but if you specifically ask me, Minister Lalovic is here in the Assembly, monitoring this session and discussing the labour law, so don't throw it away, it's not correct. So, there is and if there are any more questions, I'm willing to pass them on. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristic answered. Be kind, before you heard from Mr. Ristic, so I asked him, and I'm certainly asking if you're satisfied or not? Here you go, Mr. Ristic, so she'll get Miss Jovanovic's word. Respect the order of the Members of the People. Wait a second, you're not wearing a microphone, Mr. Ristic, do you agree that Miss Jovanovic should take her word for it first, so you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12139	Although Mr Ristic has made many mistakes when he was chairman of the Administrative Committee, he knows, unlike you, what is the order and that, when you give an answer and an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to the MP, you must ask if the MP is satisfied with the answer. Since we're not your little girls in the bench, I'm obliged as an MP to go out for a pay phone and tell you if I'm happy with the answer or not, so you be so kind as to hear what I'm about to say. I am not satisfied with the answer, first of all, as regards Article 28, and I have advertised it, and you have called upon a member who speaks of what is the jurisdiction of the Administrative Committee and I am not satisfied with your indifferent position in the presence or presence of the minister. It is true that you are not directly obliged to tell me this, but I have asked you as the first among the equals and as president of the highest legislative body if you have that knowledge. You said you had: now tell the public and the MPs that the minister is outside, drinking coffee when it comes to Article 243 and the general collective agreement and justify it to the Serbian citizens that you are watching it peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12140	I'm sorry, I'm going to keep going by the law and I can't deceive the citizens. I can't really see anyone drinking coffee from here, so I can't give you an answer that I'm watching something calmly, because I'm not watching it. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12141	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been objections here to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to the president's reply that he will order the Administrative Committee to conduct a draft of the Rules of Procedure, which is impossible. It is impossible for the Administrative Board of this Assembly to incorporate the Constitutional Court's decision in the current Rules of Procedure. So there is no authority to do so under the terms of a member of the Rules of Procedure who quoted the president. So that's an impossible thing. Otherwise, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are very often strange and very often have not been made at the time when necessary, in order to regulate some social relations. It is particularly a question of why the Constitutional Court has not yet resolved the matter of the term of office of the Administrative Board to the envoy of this House without its consent and without its written resignation. It's simply because we mention the Constitutional Court decisions and the Rules of Procedure on the work we're working on, I think it was a good opportunity to remind ourselves of the constitutional court's behaviour, but also that the Administrative Committee, as it used to be, requires it to do something that is not in its domain. Therefore, the Administrative Board cannot incorporate the Constitutional Court Decision, which puts a certain part of the Rules of Procedure out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12142	Thank you. Fortunately, I hope you'll be happy with my answer, because I've been paying attention to what I'm saying and I've made it clear that "I'm going to transfer the request to the committee responsible and its president", not that I'm going to impose anything, I have no intention of ordering anything. Here you go, about the same amendment. Replica? Here you are, Mr. Aligrudić, a replica of Mr. Ristic's exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12143	Well, there's a preferred practical thing that has to do with the DSS MP's club. So, some decision by the Administrative Board, the case of Dragisa Djokovic, etc. was mentioned. I'll remind you of something that's true. And that is, that the Administrative Board has made no decision to take office, nor has it taken them in that case; that there has been talk of the late resignation of the MP; that there has been a special relationship between the DSS parliamentary group and the mechanism already known to the public – in which way the DSS has prevented something that is simple kidnapping and purchasing of mandates, which happened in the previous two years in this assembly, and that in this mandate, except in this attempt, has never happened and we hope that it will never happen again in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12144	Thank you. Replication on the replica? (He speaks to Ambassador Ristic. Don't... What about you in the Rules of Procedure? What, now he's replicated the gentleman and you're giving a replica to his replica? (Bosko Ristić, from the place: I didn't even mention him.) No, you're not. He gave the replica because he recognized himself in an incorrect description. So it's very clear. Come on, be kind enough to stop this kind of discussion, please, Mr. Ristic, there's no reason... ( Ambassador Ristic insists). Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12145	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention of calling any MPs or challenging a replica or any of the MPs' groups. Since what I was saying about this speaker was interpreted, I believe that in a flagrant criminal way, Mr. Djokovic was taken away without his will... (votes - auuuuuuuuuuuuu) that the law and the Constitutional Court's decision were broken, and that is by those who call for legalism very often and persistently. I call upon the Constitutional Court to decide as soon as possible on this term of office and on this abuse!- I'm sorry. You know that a criminal complaint has also been filed against individuals who have organised a lecture on the alleged "past" statement, which resulted in the end of Mr Djokovic's working relationship, which is now literally on the street. Therefore, behave consistently. And you who have called upon the application of the Constitution, and obey the law. In this way, and with the fact that one of the Presidents of the Trade Court of Pristina in the same way ceased to serve as a judge, because someone falsely filed a personal request for the termination of the judicial office, it is shown that these institutions, which we now point to, are not doing their job in the right way. In this country, it is possible that someone on a "personal request" loses his parliamentary mandate, or that his judicial office ceases. We have officially, through the Justice Committee, received a report from the Great Personal Council that the man had ceased his office on a personal request, that it had been established in this assembly, and that the man had not even spoken to the Great Personal Council at all. It is about Mr. Todic, otherwise President of the Trade Court in Pristina. It is a parallel between parliamentary mandates, judicial functions and the way the ruling majority is dealt with with its political inexperiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12146	One moment, please, Mr. Aligrudic. Please, just a moment, so, quad-erat demonstration -- what happens when you don't respect what's the subject you're talking about. Now you understand, I suppose, why I insisted so much on concentration. But now I owe you an explanation of the way I run the session. I was just quoting what the Management Board was doing. In both cases, which we were talking about, the Administrative Board is a body that finds something. He's getting on. And we have a whole series of examples and I don't see why we should go back in time. He realizes something's been done. It is not correct from this pay phone to explain that something has been falsified, if they have been informed from this pay phone at the moment of surrender by all, and by the gentleman who was then a MP, that it is "the resignation he signed", and that it has been established, and all MPs have been informed about it. Please, administrative committees in a situation that solves such matters, as it has never been before. The Administrative Committee now finds that there is, for example, the government's conclusion of something and must be respected for all 250 MPs, because there are 250. Earlier, he found that 308 MPs were sitting in this assembly, including some salaries. He's trying to figure it out. As far as I understand it, and you correct me if I'm wrong, he doesn't have any other authority in that sense and I don't see any reason to open the debate, now, what was going on now, if it's the competent institutions that are doing their job on everything that's controversial, and what was going on, independent of the majority and the minority. Well, on these committees, as you know, there are MPs present to all parties, please. Do you want to continue? He's speaking to Ambassador Aligrudic. Here you go, replica to what you said, then by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. Of course, you have a replica of my exposure. (He speaks to Ambassador Ristic)
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12147	As you have heard from the President of the Assembly, in a previous assembly of parliament, the fact of the Administrative Committee, whose chairman was then Mr Ristic, was done a miracle unseen, that there is no idea how many MPs there are in the National Assembly! Are there 250 or 280 or 308?- I'm sorry. And that's all because someone was trying to, by force of God, counter and then with the applicable provisions of the law, regardless of "the Constitutional Court's decision", take MPs' seats to MPs. It was about the 45 mandates of DSS MPs, which was an unprecedented scandal, which also required the OSCE to react and thanks to the pressure and pressure of Europe, which led to a change in this state in the Serbian Parliament, a "extortioned decision of the Constitutional Court", which was totally contrary to the nature of the law itself and the proportional system, which we all talked about together, that is, what we have observed. And as for who asked, what did he sign? Well, there are graphologists in this country. Well, if anything is wrong with anyone, let him appeal to the court, and let the court determine the matter, and let the court determine who is the signer and the claimer.- I'm sorry. And to mention, sir, I don't even want to mention his name anymore, not only did he seek and resign, but he also asked to be granted those rights that belong to the MP on the basis of the termination of the term of office. So that's the living truth in this case. And those who tried to "small" the parliamentary mandate of the other parliamentary group, which the DSS never did, and the sooner we fought the battle to preserve our mandates, which we won in the elections on the basis of the coalition agreement, well, that one should worry, because the famous one is the folk: "what is smart, it is... ".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12148	I didn't hear the end and I don't want to hear it, because, please, since I insisted... Be kind, please, since I insisted that we talk about what is on the agenda, I give it to the Rules of Procedure, under Article 94(2), pause – that parliamentary groups consult whether they will continue on what is on the agenda. I'm taking the opportunity to inform time on the 4th of March to this day, which is today February, there is certainly no 365 days. It's a five-minute break. [[After break – 13,20]] To begin with, to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have found that we have enough MPs to continue our work. Replica, MP Bosko Ristic. If I understand correctly, the replica of the President of the Assembly's explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12150	Your Honor, you said in your statement that I would deny it unless I was satisfied with some of the facts you've made. You mentioned that during the last term, the Administrative Committee allowed 308 MPs to sit in Parliament. By that logic, I gave the card of a letter bearing the number 304. My card carries 306, but I left it so I'd have the right to go out for a pay phone. So, by that logic, there are over 300 MPs now, and I would like to know the number of cards carried by the MP who replaced Mr Djokovic in Parliament, who did not resign to his term, but, in one criminal act, someone organisedly handed over his resignation to the Parliament administration and was then at a session he was not invited to, he was found to cease his term. That's the difference between what the Administrative Board did in the previous term. He called on every MP whose mandate was decided. Let me remind you, it is true, and a very large number of MPs were present, so here are the MPs who have disputed whether there is a right under the DOS coalition contract, which is authorized by the proposings, to request the termination of the mandate in accordance with the then applicable article 88. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. Here is the difference, now that member of the law is no longer in force, and that is why I am asking the prime minister, Mr Kostunica, who was the loudest to return his mandate, why not protect a member of his party whose party took away the mandate beyond his will?- I'm sorry. It's legalism!- I'm sorry. Legalism is to fight for every man, for everyone's right, not to let the mandates be taken away in such a way and to end the electoral will of the citizens. Where is freedom of mandate, where is freedom of political conviction?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12151	So I'll give everyone my word, this is about the wrong interpretation. Mr. Ristic, I didn't say anything. Please listen to the clarification. We have a problem today, because MPs aren't sometimes focused on what it's about. I made it clear: "not a number of MP cards", because as you know, it would be clear to all those who are watching this programme, MPs from this assembly, occasionally for different reasons, stop being MPs. For example, they become MPs for the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament. Of course, then the next card number is issued. In this way, 92 MPs from this call, which is because they have become MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament, which is because they have delivered the services of decisions on their resignations, citing different reasons, some for pregnancy, some for some other reasons, not including, have resigned and are not members of this assembly. I was just saying that this assembly has 250 MPs all the time, and the number of cards I think goes to 348, I compared to the state where we were employed in the ministry by 308 MPs. That's two completely different things. Understand, people don't get paid by the number of cards, but everyone who's employed gets paid, so when the Assembly pays small salaries for 308 MPs, that's often more than when it pays big ones for 250. That's all I was talking about. Now according to the Rules of Procedure: MP Zoran Nikolic, then Zarko Obradovic, then Mr Karaičić, then replica Mr Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12152	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 100, by the way, I wanted not to report to the Rules of Procedure, according to the agreement on these consultations in this time, but apparently, the insolence of certain MPs has no limits. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12153	Sir, I'm warning you, under article 100, that with respect you address the MPs of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12154	I'm holding on. I would like to thank Mr Ristic for visiting our parliament, because as far as I can tell in the last month he has visited once or twice, as two-thirds of DS MPs once in two or three months stop by this parliament, but they are raising money neatly from the register. The other thing is that Mr. Ristic here said one, I guess, legal assessment that in a flagrant criminal manner he seized the term of office of Mr. Djokovic. When we talk about the number of MPs, 308 MPs were on the payroll in the last meeting. You were the chairman of the Administrative Board. Put your finger on your forehead and wonder what you've been doing with that assembly. Mr. Djokovic, as you said, is now on the street. This says how much you don't have elementary political persuasion. For all I know, Mr. Djokovic is a member of the GO DS. If he's on the street, then you, Mr. Ristic, sees your main DS board as a street, and you see members of the DS General Board as streetmen. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12155	For the second time, I'm warning you not to violate article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12156	Now that you've dared to give a legal assessment, then I'll give you one lesson, maybe it's not legal, anyway, it's useful for you. Mr. Ristic, take a basket of corn, go into those corners, fold it up and unlock it by the end of your term to repent your sins for everything you've done in the last three years. So you may have the right to say anything about the legal matters and the legal aspects that are being done in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12157	Mr. Nikolic, just a moment, first he goes after the Rules of Procedure, then the replicas, we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, allow me before that. Mr Nikolic, for the third time I warn you, if you again seek disciplinary measures that are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and in this way insult the dignity of Members who are adults, I will give you a warning, and I ask you to take care of it. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, and then in line for the replicas, Mr. Aligrudic, Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have volunteered to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Rules of Procedure relating to the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly for the sake of and the truth, I came out to say a few words to this assembly, because believe me, I feel sick in my stomach when I listen to people from the previous DOS, MPs in the current assembly, when they talk about Parliament's behaviour regarding the mandates of MPs. The truth for the sake of it, the dignity of the Assembly, cannot be skipped by what the Administrative Committee is, and Mr. Bosko Ristic, as chairman of that Committee, worked during that period. So much stranger to me when I see a fellow MP, Ristic, coming out here and talking about it, counting on us to be short of brains and memories and not knowing what happened. I must say that we, the Socialists, in April 2002 asked to apply the law and mandates of the SPS to us. The Constitutional Court's decision was made in May 2003. Meanwhile, a phantom parliamentary group was formed, after which a party of the parliamentary group was founded, and we even had a situation that the representatives of the phantom parliamentary group, or one of them, were elected to the Serbia-Montenegro state union parliament. People, from a party that did not participate in the elections, had representatives in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly! You heard this phrase, that MPs were called to make a public statement whether they resigned or not. We had a situation on the Management Board that 20 DS or DOS members resigned and it was established on the Administrative Board. It was found here in the Assembly. Then only one day they showed up and sat down in these parliamentary benches and, of course, took part in the vote. Then we heard, and I say the pearl of legal science, and probably the work of this parliament, Mr. Ristic's explanation, says, those MPs were in legal and factual error. So we're not talking about those DSS MPs who fought the battle in front of the Constitutional Court, we're talking about what we were done here. Instead of covering up, to apologize, to the ears and to keep quiet, they talk about mandates. The National Assembly should also know that such MPs, who speak in this way, are reminded that they have held the congregation majority more than a year in one illegal way and have passed a dozen laws despite the election will of the citizens. Don't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12159	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Karaicic. I took a break for the consultation and so this wouldn't happen, but, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12160	Since we entered, dear friends and colleagues in this assembly of parliament, I have abstained from talking about how the mandates have been stolen. Today I heard that Mr. Bosko Ristic, imagine, went out for this pay phone and that he was talking about someone stealing someone's terms. Imagine, Bosko Ristic, who was responsible for "stealing the mandate", not taking the mandates, talking about someone stealing someone's mandate! This is worse than when Karic talks about workers or employers or at least at the same level. Since I have been silent about this for several months and I am not talking about it, and I will tell you that me, Vojkan Tomic and Mr Bajcetic, by your decision not legally, but by political decision, were left without a mandate at a session which was also illegal, as well as the Labour Act that you voted afterwards. I'm taking this opportunity to finally explain to the public not only why you did it and how you did it, but who you really are, Mr. Ristic. It may take me a little longer than three minutes, but let's be patient. You said you took the terms by law, and that's formally true. What is not true is that the PDS party at the time has never taken away my mandate. For me, Mr. Tomic and Professor Bajecic took over Momcilo Perisic's mandate to address the late prime minister. It was your political decision back then to stay in power for a few more years and thus to have a majority in the congregation. What does that have to do with the law? What does that have to do with mandates? Your decision was to rule without a majority in this congregation, and that's the point. It doesn't matter whose name it is. You're neither the first nor the last to do it, that's what you've done before and the SPS to someone else. Don't you who smuggled cars from Holland in 1995, 1996, to talk about justice and honesty, yes, that's what you did. Get out here and say that's not true. So, you...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12161	Mr. Karaicic, please, I'm warning you under article 100 you can't accuse the MPs without proof. Please take care of the dignity of the Assembly, continue and bring an end to the address of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12162	The Honorable Chairman, the whole Nis knows he did it. I'm just saying what the whole Nis knows. So your political decision to withdraw mandates has allowed you to have power for two and a half years without a majority. This assembly assembly will never do that. There's no one sitting here unauthorized and there's no one who's turned into a party because it's someone's political decision!- I'm sorry. I said every word true and I didn't lie, and you, if you have the courage, come out here and tell me what's wrong. Let me tell you, I won't even listen to you, let alone ever talk to you about it. Never.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12163	I know you've all answered the line. I have no intention of allowing this tone in the congregation. We'll work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 81, paragraph 1 of the session lasts from 10.00 to 1800 hours, with a one-hour break. I'm taking a break from one hour to 14:30. Thank you Mr. Aligrudić, Ristic and Vukicevic for their understanding. [[After break – 15,40]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 159 MPs are present in the O.R. Please, let us first determine the quorum for work. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that we have enough presence to continue our work. I remind you that at the end of the afternoon, we had three applications for the replica: Mr Aligrudic as president of the DSS parliamentary group, as a group of DSS, Mr Bosko Ristic, has been mentioned several times in the presentations of previous speakers, several times in an offensive context, which is why the president of the Assembly warned speakers not to express himself in this way, Mr Vucicevic, who, meanwhile, gave up his replica. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudić first. I ask all participants in the debate to stick to the congregation tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12165	Instead of a direct replica of what Mr. Ristic said, I would say something, and yet the occasion. I would remind you that today we have a labour law on the agenda, a bill whose text is clearly better than the text of the Law which is currently in force and which will be put out of force by adopting this law. As for how our working day should go today, I think it should be in the spirit of discussion about the law. Today we had representatives of the union of Serbia present, who were very interested in the course and outcome of this debate. It is certainly of interest to all those who are following the broadcast on the third channel of state television and on that behalf, regardless of all the arguments that have been made so far in the debate, I would indeed like to appeal and ask that we return to the topic of the agenda, and I appeal to all MPs who intend to take part in the debate concerning what is the result of the earlier fact of the Administrative Committee in the earlier assembly of Parliament and what burdens our society with the fact that the "Bodrum-Solunical" transversal is, to leave it behind and to turn to what is today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12166	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ristic. National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12167	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I answered the replica after a series of insults, slanders, lies, and I expected that the head of the DSS parliamentary group would at least publicly apologize for being distanced from what the MPs had said before him and thus show that he did not agree with the hate speech we heard from this pay phone. However, I will not descend to the level and manner of speech as two of my predecessors, before the head of the DSS parliamentary group, have resolutely rejected all these slanders as untrues, but above all, these slanders and falsehoods speak of those who utter them. People, individuals who are unfulfilled in their ambitions, who in this way and in this kind of speech address their fellow MPs, talk about their state of mind, not about the personalities they have made so many false things about. It speaks of a large amount of hatred that is spread from this pay phone to political opponents. This speaks of the nervousness of a political group that lost its irrevocable legitimacy and support of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens see it well. Serbian citizens no longer support such a policy. All those who sincerely advocate reforms, European Serbia, Serbia in Europe, for standards declared by the ruling coalition, know that the political group cannot lead Serbia to Europe. This nervousness, the rebellion of citizens at all levels, the dissatisfaction that is being expressed, the energy that is growing, really creates anxiety in this political group, and that is why there is a situation where one MP for the entire parliamentary group, in particular the DSS MP, tells DS MPs who are also members of the DS General Committee, that they are alleys and that the main board is DS Street. This is already a well-known "tagetation" of political opponents. We've had it in the past. Unfortunately, in 2003, as a result of such "tagetation" of political opponents, there was one incident, when we lost our president, lost the prime minister, and it is clear... (President: Please, Mr Ristic, do not belittle the terrible act that happened in Serbia. It's not an incident. The prime minister of this country has been killed and I ask you to take care of it and ask all MPs to choose carefully how they express themselves. At the same time, I remind you that time for the replica is up. I'm glad, Mr. President, that you take care of it, but you haven't used your right to interrupt this session at the moment when the stream of insults went right towards my party, towards its highest organs, but you did so when that stream of slander and lies was told. You did it twice the moment I was supposed to get a line. In any case, this lie will not prevent me from telling the truth about this speaker, it will not prevent me from making legal analysis of the acts and actions that this ruling coalition is doing, because that is also the obligation of the opposition. The opposition is government control, and the control of the opposition is dictatorship. Don't behave like that when you're in power, because that's what Serbian citizens see. I'm glad that several members of the DSS, a fellow MP, came after those insults and apologized to me personally. I expected also the head of the parliamentary group to distance themselves from such exposure, to show that the parliamentary group does not have such manners and does not advocate a hate speech for this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12168	Just a moment, please, you're already the fourth to report to the Rules of Procedure. You're the fourth in your line of business, be nice. We must act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I call once again on all MPs to adhere to the letters of the Rules of Procedure governing the work of this institution as the most important institutions in the country. At the same time, I ask that all MPs, simply, maintain in part their emotions, and in part make sure that the citizens of Serbia are watching this programme and there is no reason to panic and give incorrect information. So, everything's fine. Some people are out front, having a snow problem, so they're slipping, but there's no riots, Mr. Ristic, don't disturb the public. There is also no problem, please, before signing the Studies on feasibility, obtaining a positive assessment and it is very clear that this is possible, thanks to the work of the Government, so thanks to the work of MPs and the position and opposition here. Please, don't give alarming information that we're away from Europe or we're not. Now according to the Rules of Procedure: Mr. Šormaz reported to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic reported to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic, then Mr. Zivkovic, then Mr. Karaičić, also after the Business? I apologize Mr. Šormaz, we had to clear up, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure you, Mr. Aligrudić, Mr. Zivkovic, and it was a replica that Mr. Markovic asked for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12169	I will appreciate what you said, Mr. President, although it is very clear that every word spoken here by Mr. Ristic has actually committed a violation of Article 100. And I understand that there were emotions in the performances of previous DSS MPs, especially I understand, if it was an emotional performance by Mr. Karaicic, I absolutely understand him, and I don't understand how Mr. Ristic has the nerve to go out and talk. It's a matter of his party and the MPs' group...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12170	Now I warn you, all MPs here have cheeks. Please choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12171	So, as for what Mr. Karaicic told him, I completely understand, because he was deprived of his mandate by the Administrative Committee led by Mr. Ristic. The Constitutional Court has returned that mandate, and Mr. Ristic has not returned his mandate. If someone does not return what has been given to the court's solution as a right, it is known what is the term for such a man in our people. Therefore, I fully understand Mr Karaičić's emotional performance and I think he was absolutely justified and that he must be, that you understand him for it. Otherwise, I apologize to the lady I see, so one of the unions, because there's no discussion about what needs to be done, about the Labour Act, because the DS gentlemen are nervous. They know that this country is going in the right direction and they are trying in every way possible to destabilise this state and this parliament -- to make out of it what was in their time, and that was one of the most common circuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12172	Let's go in order, I know, I saw you pick up the line, Mr. Ristic. We go in order, first by the Rules of Procedure, and the replicas come later. Please, let's take it in a row. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudić, then Mr. Zivkovic; then there's the lines: Mr. Markovic, Mr. Ristic, please note I can't remember everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12173	I don't need to apologize to anyone here. I didn't do anything in this House, or any of the DSS MPs, to apologize to anyone for anything. What one needs to apologize for or be ashamed of, is first of all, why he accepted the parliamentary mandate after that circus and the chaos that he led in the previous meeting, and even more surprisingly, the position of a political party in which he even offers the mandate under these circumstances. So that's what's the big problem here. Just because it is not a tragic case of the "Bodrumsko-Solunska" transversal has been resolved until the end and because it is not yet known who is the real ideologist of individual DS members, and the party outside of it is kept in its presentation, whether it is Ceda Jovanovic, whether it is Beba Popovic, whether it is the "Baby" truths that are being brought up here, that is why we have this problem and this debate!- I'm sorry. That someone in this country must finally clear it up. We've got to get out of here for a while with those things. What Mr. Shormaz just said, he's right. We have a serious debate today, and I said that in my first sentence, we go back to the Labour Act, we go back to the debate, not obstructing the debate and delaying one of the most important laws that this country needs to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12174	Mr. Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12175	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure: Members of the 100th and 102nd. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been injured in all three attitudes. Mr Nikolic of the DSS insulted, not only the present DS MPs who are members of the General Committee, but also members of the General Committee who have no opportunity to replicate and respond to the serious insults he has brought to their account. I also report a breach of the Rules of Procedure and Article 102. Which is why Mr Nikolic was not officially warned by the chairman because he used offensive expressions. I understand the insistence of the DSS parliamentary group's head, Mr Aligrudic, to return the debate to normal frameworks, however, he himself does not contribute to it. Speaking of DS policy, let the DS leave alone and take care of its party, that is what is legitimate and what can be understood. So, I don't accept the insults that come to the expense of neither the board of directors, nor the members of the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12176	Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12177	Let Mr Aligrudić take care of his party, not DS. At least what I expect, please nice, I have time to wait...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12178	Mr. Zivkovic, I understand, take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12179	... It is that Mr. Nikolic apologizes, not to me, because his insults mean nothing to me, I know who I am and those who know me, they know who I am, but, please, Mr. Nikolic is obliged to apologize to members of the DS General Committee, because they are not present at this session, and he has made serious accusations against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12180	I ask the MPs to listen to Mr. Zivkovic within his three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12181	I must say something else, this is the duty of Mr Nikolic, but also Mr Aligrudic, regardless of what he thinks he should not apologize, not for us, they, that is, should do it for yourselves because of this Parliament and for the public of Serbia, because parliamentaryism in Serbia does not start from the DSS and this ruling majority, but a hundred years ago and the dignity of the National Assembly are all obliged to protect, and especially you as the ruling majority. And one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12182	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12183	It cannot be allowed in this assembly that the respected officials of the DSS...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12184	Mr. Zivkovic... Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12185	... Well, they say there are... To explain the insults and lies brought to the expense of the Democratic Party of Emotions. Lies can't be...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12186	Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12187	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12188	All I'm asking is that you bring the end, three minutes, and it's 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12189	So, you can't tell lies and insults by explaining emotions. That's not right, first of all. And one more thing: upon the expense of the prominent MP, the esteemed Bosko Ristic, there were heavy insults, and Mr Karaičić, who, as far as I heard, said that everyone in Nis knew those lies he had told. I can tell you that I work and live in Nis and that I have countless friends and acquaintances and lies I first heard in today's session...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12190	Mr. Zivkovic, you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12191	So we have to do the right thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12192	Mr. Zivkovic, please for a moment...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12193	So we need to call the lies that are spoken with the right words. So, I'm done, I'm calling on those who told lies to apologize. It's human sin. We can accept that, but we cannot accept that lies are justified by emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12194	I've seen, just a little bit, and I've seen Mr. Nikolic, and I've written everything down nicely and nicely, and we'll clear everything up in this assembly, just asking those who advertise the Rules of Procedure to respect the Rules of Procedure by the time of the discussion. So, if someone advertises the Rules of Procedure, please respect the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going to the replicas. We saved the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Vice President Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, for the replica, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12195	It is unfortunate that the work of the National Assembly was interrupted by a declaration of hatred, which apparently exists, the Democratic Party of Serbia towards the Democratic Party. That hatred, fortunately, does not exist with all DSS members. This hatred is due to the way the DSS is created And it's time to say it in public. [[Laughter]] The way the DSS came into existence has just caused all the political philosophy that you're conducting. Your leaders and your chief ideologists are former, failed DS members, people who failed to achieve their political ambitions in the DS; then they went and formed a party and when they came to the opportunity, after 5 October 2000, they stuck a "knife in the back" of the Democratic Party (votes - Auuuuuuuuuuuuu).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12196	Mr. Markovic, who has been stabbed in the back by a knife, let the court of history determine, let's try to get back to today. And the history of what you did 10 years ago doesn't interest these MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12197	And today you showed your true face, that is, when you entered an open coalition with the SPS and the SRS (votes - auuuuuuuuu)...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12198	Mr. Markovic, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to deal with the replica, which is why you called.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12199	Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12200	I didn't realize you'd come forward, or as an authorised representative, you've come forward for a replica about the DSS discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12201	It's just confirming...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12202	Do you want to continue to spread the debate here now and with other parliamentary clubs?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12203	Mr. Vice President, I've also been an MP in my previous assembly and I don't see any way to interrupt me from saying what I want, except to set a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12204	No, no, no, I won't take a break. You're welcome to discuss what you want, and mine is to warn you when you break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12205	So, exactly what Mr. Angelkovic is doing is in favor of what I'm saying. I don't know what you're laughing at. I don't understand what makes you laugh or what makes you so happy today in Serbia, except for the fact that you've all agreed, everyone here, and radicals and socialists and DSS in hatred of the Democratic Party. (Glasses – auuuuuuu.) ) Mr Aligrudic says he doesn't owe an apology to the Democratic Party, but we listened to him humbly apologize here to Ivica Dacic. Hansel Dacic, I give you credit for the way On which you exposed a humiliated... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12206	Mr. Markovic, may I ask you to bring an end to your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12207	... Like when Mr. Schormaz was on the show with Mr. Vukic, so he tried so hard to please Mr. Vukic that it was hard to watch. I had to change the channel. (Glasses-aaaaaaah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12208	Mr. Markovic, may I ask you... Three minutes and 50 seconds, or four minutes. You've broken a minute more than you're allowed. Secondly, please do not engage in television broadcast analyses at the Serbian Parliament. That's not good. Let's leave it for the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12209	So you're working well, obviously, as a coalition, but I'll continue what I started. This all began by being a gentleman, a dear colleague, for many here I can say that they will never be appreciated in the profession or in public life as much as Mr. Bosko Ristic (votes - Auuuuuu). I can't imagine Mr. Shormaz as president of the Yugoslav bar. Of course, it's unimaginable. He barely became a working relations technician, and imagine a man being president of the Yugoslav Bar Association of Lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12210	Mr. Markovic, can I ask you something? Do you train my tolerance to allow you two minutes more than you're allowed and wait for me to interrupt the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12211	And I felt your tolerance on my back...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12212	I'll be tolerating for another minute, here, allowing twice the time, but you're still done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12213	I felt the tolerance of the SPS and the SRS and the 9th of March 1991 and when you arrested us, persecuted us, burned our flag in the Republic Square, which is likely to happen again when the Democratic Party of Serbia takes these badges from the SRS and put them on its lapels, but did anyone here hear a word of hatred other than what Bosko Ristic said was denied. Do you think you can defend, abolize, erase the mistakes of this government by mentioning our mistakes? What do you want to do about it? Do you think we're running away from our mistakes? We have also filed political responsibility, and another kind of responsibility is currently being determined before the court, and we are not running away from it and it should be determined. But, Mr. Aligrudic, be assured that someone will ask when this authority falls who forged and filed a counterfeit statement, let me finish, forging Mr. Djokovic's statement to the Administrative Committee. You know what a statement of will is. You're a lawyer and you know that "later statement derogates the earlier." You know any blank signatures don't have legal facts. And, Mr. Aligrudic, if you were already aware of the mistakes made by some of your ranks, in the last session, and you weren't immune to that either, you were involved in a lot of things, and you from the DSS, why you allowed yourself to repeat the same mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12214	Mr. Markovic, can I ask you and ask you, do you have any intention of finishing today?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12215	Mr. Angelkovic, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12216	Well, it's seven minutes, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12217	Here, I'm done, I'm sorry, but I have to give you an explanation for this. I'm sorry you didn't get a chance to hear what was said in a statement by DSS members here to the Democratic Party. Well, that wasn't equal to the worst times of RTS, or the worst times when it was publicly invited to a link between members of the Democratic Party. We are ready for what awaits us when DSS and Serbian radicals enter the coalition, but believe me, we have survived much worse. Your time will pass. Don't laugh. Don't forget that we sat here and we were the government, like you were, and some of us were osions like you now, and believe me, it all went away. You'll be ashamed of what you did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12218	I've seen everything, I've written everything down, and I've seen you, Mr. Shormaz, but I want to warn the Parliament that Mr. Markovic spoke for seven minutes and 45 seconds, and he was entitled to three minutes. Please do not train the chairman's democracy and tolerance and make sure when you say you speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. One thing is, therefore, a debate about who was saying it, and the other is respect for the Rules of Procedure. Let's go get the Rules of Procedure, get the replications. Now, for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure and by the applications for the replica Mr. Ristic, so Mr. Boris Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12219	Dear Chairman, I hope you won't disturb me and interrupt my presentation, and I will try to be precise and to make it clear to those who have mentioned my name in previous discussions. The way the mandate was taken in the previous period was mentioned here. I just want to remind those who were in the previous session and to meet those who were not in the previous session that the first solution was the "decision decision" signed by Mr. Jocic. The first decision of the Administrative Board was signed by Mr. Jocic. At that time, the mandate was taken from Mr Ljubivo Slavkovic at the request of the DOS presidency, as it was in the latter period, where Mr Kostunica, who publicly declared that the mandates belonged to the coalition in accordance with the coalition agreement, participated. Therefore, if someone calls for legalism, for the truth, for facts, he must not run away from his political views. Thus, in the same way, you should have consistently protected the mandates of those to whom they belonged by law at that time. Now, after the Constitutional Court decision, the mandates belong to the MPs. Those who advocated such a decision by the Constitutional Court, lobbying, exerting political pressure, are now ignoring the same Constitutional Court. Therefore, there are parties in the current ruling coalition that have simultaneously requested the removal of the mandate and those who have asked for the mandate to be returned. Your current coalition, the coalition in power, consist of parties actively demanding the withdrawal of existing mandates in the previous period. Is that not true, did members of the current SDP, who were then part of the Social Democracy, not ask for the removal of the mandate, now Karaicic is not sitting in a party whose president asked for the term of office of Ljubo Slavkovic? So, please, what are we talking about? We have to put an end to it sometime. "Point" is the application of the law and application of the Constitutional Court's decision. If we act according to the law, according to the Constitution, that's how we put an end to our mutual debates on this matter. It's unproductive to go back in time. We here have political forces that drag us into the past with a constant review of history, we have those political forces that have a political vision. I believe the DS is part of a political force that has a political vision. We stand for it, we advocate Serbia's reform, first of all, for the transition of consciousness that those people who are used to thinking in a dogma, those people who think ideologically, and are blind and grumbling in front of facts and truth, have no right to lead this Serbia. That's why those political forces that see the DS vision party... for Serbia's reform and for the transition of consciousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12220	I realized that Mr. Boris Karaicic gave up. The replica was reported by MP Zoran Nikolic; and I hope that it will never happen again that the chairman of the Administrative Committee, with a letter from a group of citizens or citizens of Mikhail Markovic, solves the status of MPs here in the Serbian Parliament, which was happening in the previous parliament. As you remember, Mr. Ristic, it was familiar to you, and that's how you usurped the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As an MP who respects the Rules of Procedure, it will take me exactly three minutes to say what I mean. A lot of things have been said here and I was imputed to say that I said something that I didn't, and I was actually insisted that I apologize to DS MPs who are members of the board of directors, but also to all members of the DS Board of Directors. I am taking this opportunity to apologize to all DS MPs who are members of the DS General Committee and all members of the DS General Committee, but on behalf of Mr Bosko Ristic. I didn't say what was said here that I said. That's what Mr. Bosko Ristic said. He said here he was a member of the DS General Committee on the street. I didn't say that. Otherwise, this is my second term. I've been here since January 2001. I've always tried to spread the spirit of tolerance behind this speaker and contribute to the debate. I've never been involved in a debate of this kind. When you go too far and you step on a sting that still hurts, then you have to be answered, because you dared to judge someone's sins. I will remind you of the word of Nikolai Velimirovich, "Do not judge other people's sins until you see your sins." You and you are just facing the truth of what you did and what the previous government did. My personal opinion is that you should be happy and satisfied, if you deserve to be forgotten in that context what you did for three years while you were in power. So don't reach out to the questions that you've actually been opening in the most flagrant form for the past three years, or three years while you've been in power. I want to say something about myself. I entered the DS in March 1990. The DS was formed on February 3, 1990. In 1992, I entered the DSS and I am its founder. I have my own political beliefs. They're democratic and national. The DSS is a European party and we're not nervous and we're not worried about ratings like you. We know that by safeguarding national integrity, we are entering the EU, but by making it valuable, national, traditionally integrated into European values. We are not ready to enter the EU as you have offered. In fact, we are the ones who will bring you and this people and these citizens into the EU. I am very sorry that, after so many mistakes have been made, the DS does not understand and will not face its mistakes and does not want to make that contribution, but also with you and without you, we will enter the EU and you will have to welcome it eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12222	The word has a People's Messenger, after the replica, Milos Aligrudić, and then the Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12223	Something about an apology. He should apologize to those we deliberately or accidentally hurt. I am always ready on my own behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group to apologize to anyone who is hot or accidentally injured by us. When it happened in this House and when we were distracted that something like that was happening, of course there was an apology. I can't understand one thing, nor can I judge it, nor is it possible for a reasonable man to assess it. How is it possible to apologize to someone who has not been injured and cannot be harmed in the discussion by the person who worships him for something that he himself boasted was good at? These are efforts to take seats in the National Assembly, 45 mandates, which is to try to explain how it is perfectly legitimate and normal to vote from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. How can those who feel that they can pass laws in such a way, and this law that we are changing today, which is the Labour Act, if that is how we talk, does that mean that you are sorry for your actions; does it mean that you are deeply sorry for the fact that you have passed laws with non-existent votes in the Assembly, that you have caused a situation in the world that you do not know how many MPs there are, that you have taken over the mandates of other parliamentary groups and that you have tried and dared to try to do so in this House. What you were prevented, because when it comes to the kidnapping of the mandate, two things are very different: one thing is when you seek to overturn the election will of the citizens while you have others, and the other is moral value when someone tries to do everything in his power and protect what the citizens in the elections voted and what is a parliamentary group. As far as the law and the Constitution are concerned, in the very law, I'm going to give you a little example of what we're talking about here at all. I'm going to give you one very simple and small example – is it possible to move from the parliamentary group to the other? It's not. It's not legal. No, and here's the simple reason, and if Mr. Djokovic hadn't resigned, and he's filed a verdict in some ordinary court procedure, let's get out of these stories here. Therefore, he could not and could not by the same law, because the law says, in the event of the end of the term of office of the MP, the mandate is made up of that list of parliamentary groups on which the MP was elected. That's what the law says. That provision no constitutional court, nor this Constitutional Court, has any other institution put out of force. Therefore, in the event that Mr. Djokovic, it doesn't matter, I'm sick of mentioning his name, staying in the DS ranks, so if, on some other basis, his mandate had stopped, the DSS would have the right to replace him. That's what the law says, and that's the spirit of the law, and that shows what's being protected here and what you're attacking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12224	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12225	And I repeat what I said at the beginning, and I end up with that, which is a smart thing to be ashamed of...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12226	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic. The Rules of Procedure are a priority in relation to the replica, Mr. Shormaz, I appreciate your objection, but it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12227	More lies have been told here, and I believe that every false act is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12228	Mr. Markovicu quote a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12229	There's no need to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, it's an article 100, I don't have to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12230	I'll give you the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12231	Come on. Well, that's Mr. Angelkovic now regretting giving me his word over the line. It means, "The People's Messengers are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." It's all done. Just a little attention...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12232	He was taking out a private...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12233	Mr. Aligrudic and Mr. Zoran Nikolic were false and thus injured the dignity of the MPs, especially those from the DS. We have nothing to regret. Everything we've done, we've done in our best interest and our best faith to work for Serbia's well-being. I'm sure all we did was for Serbia's sake, unlike you that I couldn't say. We have one mistake and I admit it and we really have one huge mistake and we regret it. Our mistake is Vojislav Kostunica. Our mistake is bringing this man here as president of Yugoslavia. Our mistake is that we have one non-existent party of our former members composed of our former members who carry the frustration of failure within the DS, which we have created and made of it a ruling party in Serbia in a short period of time. I'll tell you one more thing, I totally understand what's going on here, you're restoring the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. You're all back to the way things were, you're all back in time from 2000. You're doing it all. Except for one thing, I'm sure you'll never do one thing, you'll never bother to return Slobodan Milosevic, because if you return him to what then Vojislav Kostunica. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Aligrudic, you really tried to offend us earlier when you spoke. None of us said we were street boys. Mr. Zoran Nikolic said directly that members of the GO DS are street members. You, Mr. Aligrudic, feel no need to apologize for this and say more about you than you do about us. That reminds me a lot and I see that you have not removed from the political philosophy promoted by Mr. Jocic in words that you are making "sanitary cordon." When there's a "sanitary cordon," then there's two sides. You have to wonder who's with which one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12234	It is the People's MP's turn, just a moment, I've just arrived, it's the People's MP Shormaz, come in; Zoran Nikolic answered the line, after Zeljko Tomic and Mr Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12235	Because I respect the union gentlemen and the citizens of Serbia who are waiting for us to pass the labour law, I will be shorter than three minutes. I have a replica of Mr. Markovic's presentation, where he mentioned me on several occasions. First of all, I want to say that there are doctors, peasants, workers of various kinds and professions sitting in this assembly next to lawyers and work technicians. Well, that's right, that's what Serbia is, and so Parliament should, of course, represent Serbia. It has nothing to do with what you said. It's sad, and I'm glad you said that Mr. Ristic was doing things against the law as a graduate lawyer, top lawyer and president of the Chamber of Lawyers of Yugoslavia or whatever, although I know that country no longer exists but Serbia-Montenegro, and I don't know if they changed the name of that chamber. On the other hand, Mr. Markovic, if you are not familiar with this, I am not carrying any frustration with what I founded DS in January 1990 in Smederev. I was the first president of a democratic youth. When we created the DSS in 1992, of 21 members of the Municipal Committee, 18 made the DSS, and one didn't go anywhere, he left both, and two stayed in the DS. It is known why we were doing this, because we were making a joint opposition coalition in battle, in front of Slobodan Milosevic, and you didn't want to do it, but you made agreements with him, ran a "fair" campaign, and where you attacked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you never once mentioned Slobodan Milosevic. Even in 1993, you were ready to join him and the government to have your own Prime Minister. That's what you've been doing and you have no right to honor anything and speak to the DSS about it. As for Vojislav Kostunica, you have now shown that you are completely unworthy to mention his name, because you would never have been an MP had he not been the bearer of the list. You begged us, you begged us in front of that main committee, in November 2000, to make a decision to go along with you to the Republic elections and be the bearer of the list. You've been blaspheming and praying, because you knew how you'd go without it. The only victory on September 24th was the victory of Vojislav Kostunica over Slobodan Milosevic. We did not then win more parliamentary mandates than the SPS, they won more in the local elections on the same day. We did not win the parliamentary majority in the federal assembly, but Vojislav Kostunica negotiated with the SNP and created a new federal government that you later entered and did what you did and obtained the opportunity to enter the republican level of government. It's a shame to say something like that. You should be ashamed of everything you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-09-0.u12236	Thank you. I saw, I'm sorry, so they answered the line further and Mr. Hranislav Peric, Mr. Bosko Ristic. I'm really sorry, we have to work on the Rules of Procedure. This is the National Assembly. She decides the most important things for this country, the laws. That's why I have no intention of allowing people here to question each other, how anyone remembers what historical dates and how they interpret them, but I ask all the heads of Parliament to carry out consultations on continuing work on the labour law. On the basis of Article 94(2), I am taking a break, and since the passions are obviously arousing, the break will take longer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE RAD LAW (details ) I remind you that yesterday's session was interrupted during the debate on amendments to Article 243 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic. Six MPs spoke of this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
