ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which I suggest is deleted. The reason for the submission of this amendment concerns, first of all, the transformation of Article 2. I believe that the old solution is more complete and celery, to more clearly define the commitments of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. It is not clear to me that if we adopted a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija here two days ago and we have concluded that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must remain in the membership of the Republic of Serbia, why we are now deleting Kosovo and Metohija and the Government of Serbia's obligation to Kosovo and Metohija by means of a bill now. In order to explain, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because I see that most here in Parliament are not interested, I will read the old solution found in the previous Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said: "The Fund participates in the property, production and financial restructuring of enterprises and in the achievement of regional development policy, including encouraging the development of underdeveloped areas and stopping the emigration and return of Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija," which I particularly stress. Who bothers to stop the exodus of Serbs and Montenegrins in Kosovo and Metohija, to stop them from evicting? Let me remind you, there are 130,000 Serbs living in Kosovo. If this government of the Republic of Serbia has a maternal relationship with them, normally we will all experience another exodus and the very Serb families in Kosovo and Metohija are being broken down. It is further said: "The Fund participates in the creation of programming, infrastructure and other conditions of importance for the development of underdeveloped areas and for the achievement of general interests for the Republic in certain areas, including the halting of the emigration and return of Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with the law, or its programme." I do not see a single reason, not a single normal politician in this state of Serbia who is disturbed by these sentences that the Government has deleted from the law and puts a general sentence – that it encourages economic development on some development principles, participates in achieving regional development policy. All of this is eyed and irritated by Serbs and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Why does one Serbian parliament mind that the bill says "Kosovo and Metohija" and "Serbia", "a process to prevent emigration", "a process to assist", "the economic development of these Serbs", because if we want to talk about who is most vulnerable right now in Serbia, we have to admit, regardless of the very difficult situation in which, thanks to this regime, all Serbs in Serbia have come, yet the most difficult Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. We must, whether we want to or not, admit that they live in abnormal conditions and if the Development Fund deletes the sentence "Kosovo and Metohija", "the process of stopping the eviction of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija", and to prevent it, in fact, it does not prevent anything. Because I'm telling you that in the last year, no single dinar has been placed in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, as if there's not a single man out there who's interested in restoring something, to create something, to help himself and his family survive and to survive, despite the abnormal conditions for life and work, survive in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, I propose to this assembly that in the voting day accept this amendment of mine to remain this old solution, because we will therefore oblige the Government to place a certain amount of funds on both Kosovo and Metohija, both in order to create conditions for the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, as planned by this Development Fund and to prevent emigration. I don't see any reason to come from the Development Fund, if you can't do it anymore, and it can certainly be ten houses in one village for the returnees to be built. And here's Mr. Minister, so I'm gonna have to repeat what I said. Mr. Minister, here is a bill that the SRS parliamentary group disagrees with, and thus 130,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Let me introduce you to what this is all about. In Article 2. The bill deletes the words "Kosovo and Metohija", i.e. The possibility of the government reacting and preventing emigration from Kosovo and Metohija is deleted, normally due to the economic situation, as well as to terror. The possibility of helping Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is deleted, and there are businessmen down there who want to work, who want to create, who do not want to live on humanitarian aid, because they do not have it and have to take care of themselves and their families. I want this solution that was previously made in the Development Fund Act to continue, so that these sentences are not deleted. I remind you that two days ago, we adopted the Resolution, that the Assembly made a decision and made a commitment to that government of the Republic of Serbia itself that it must take care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and not only Serbs, because there are others who are threatened, which are: Gorans, Roma, Turks, Egyptians, and normally, there will be a number of Shiparas who will seek help, those who are loyal to the state of Serbia. Why should we deny such a possibility that certain funds of this fund, I don't know how they are, no matter how much they are, some are symbolic, let it be at least ten houses to be made in Kosovo and Metohija to those who are burned, destroyed, kidnapped, but it is still a gesture of goodwill, and I am sure that the state of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do so. I appeal once again and ask that this amendment be accepted in the voting day and, if possible, it would be best if the finance minister accepted it immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22428	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. The word has the MP Zoran Krasic on the same amendment, and then we will hear the data; otherwise, a bag or vault, as it is called today, holds, fortunately, a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22429	Let me just pick up where Mr. Kragovic left off. You see, we at the level of local self-government depending on the ability of local self-government authorities, and of course the resources, also have, if I may say so, some local developmental institutions. Then, at the level of the Republic next to this fund, we have other institutions that somehow affect development. One of these is the Road Directorate, which directs funds for that part of the infrastructure, which must take care not only of some current interests and priorities, but also of the long-term policy of road infrastructure development in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That I don't order, but make sure there's probably another 10 institutions that are in some way affecting development. Why have we submitted an amendment to this Article 2. The bill and they wanted us to keep the existing text of Article 3? That's exactly what Mr. Kragovic was talking about. You see, we have two processes today. The first process could, in a way, be defined by a single sentence that the Government cited in the reasons for the adoption of this law (this is the pre-latest paragraph within the Roman two – the reasons for adoption) where in one objective way this fund is spoken of as an instrument that should encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. It is likely the idea that encouraging the development of small and medium - sized enterprises with some dispersion has an inevitable impact on the overall development of the area. That's true, but believe me, at this point it's not a priority. You're free to encourage a small company in Golia if there's no infrastructure, unless there are other conditions that this small and medium-sized company can work there. First of all, we need these investments. We will later come to these provisions regarding the use of these funds and the way they are used. Now I would like, in the follow-up to the time I have, to strengthen exactly what Mr Kragovic was talking about Kosovo and Metohija's territory. As a small introduction, I'm going to give you something that was recently on TV, where a correspondent from the Shiptar Media read a lesson to all of us in downtown Belgrade. Well, among other things, the question of journalists is it true that Mladjan Dinkic says that international loans concerning Kosovo and Metohija are paid out of our budget, since you made such a statement, he is what would be said, in a narrow, dead term – and what is Serbia paying for it? See what message he sends in downtown Belgrade – what Serbia pays for. When the journalist said: well, Serbia invested in Kosovo and Metohija probably a significant part of the funds of those 20 billion for which there are papers that have been made, he said – well, but it was a federal fund, so they all invested. When asked whose companies are there in Kosovo and Metohija territory, he says: these are Kosovo and Metohija enterprises. That's where Serbia committed violence in the 1990s or late 1988s, 1986, because it's supposed to be a paperwork thing attached to some systems, which are based in Belgrade. Why am I saying all this? I'm not going to get out of the naphthaline right now on the subject of a bad sequencing. That's one stage that went negative for us. I will not criticise this solution where Serbia continues to pay off those loans, it fulfils its international obligations. He does not deserve criticism from the solution, and it is good that Serbia recognises, by pacifying its obligations, that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I want to ask you to think again, before you decide on this amendment, that today or these days and these months we are at a turning point whether I will win international law, truth, justice and justice, or we will get the most severe violence. You should know immediately that the United States and England are pushing for the Kosovo issue to be resolved by 1 June of next year. France and Germany are not for a quick solution, but for something that would be just, in principle, in accordance with international law, so that they would not experience indiscipline on their territory. I warn you of these stories of entities and of these nebulises that we have the opportunity to hear daily from one man, who is the president of the Republic of Serbia and one parliamentary group, with the support of NGOs, because they make up this Democratic Party. We have here a legal pledge, fortunately our only individuals, for some future definitive status for Kosovo and Metohija, which will be as far away from Serbia as possible. We need to be aware of that. Therefore, Mr. Minister, at this point, it would be much better to remain the existing text of Article 3 of this Law, because in this way we are manifesting not only political will, but we are making it a legal norm that, in all our development acts, all our regulations, laws, Kosovo and Metohija exist within the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. It's a shame there have been no significant investments these years. In one period we had some investments, one that had now fled to Karic. Of course, his investments, unfortunately I have to say his, he invested state resources to provide himself with some votes and form his own party in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. When it was condemned, he changed his story and went with something else. Accept this amendment. In this way, we manifest clearly, loudly, that all territories that can be classified under some criteria as underdeveloped, and especially the unique territory of Kosovo and Metohija, there is no division of the east, west, north, south, but the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija is covered by our regulation that regulates development. Investments are needed in Kosovo and Metohija. In Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary for people who want to stay there to live under the benefited conditions to be able to use funds. You won't do anything wrong. I warn you that one of the principles of the EU is that private property is sacred. So that our man who uses these funds through this fund will have to enjoy the protection of all the institutions that advocate, not only declaratively, but also in part, will have to prove that private property is sacred. So I ask all MPs, independently of political groups, that there is no cheerleading of exclusion when deciding on this amendment. By adopting this amendment, Mr Dinkic, the concept of your bill is not disturbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22430	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to clarify, it is incorrect for these members to exclude the authority of the Development Fund in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, for the simple reason that Article 3 clearly states that it is the Fund's primary task to promote the economic development of the Republic of Serbia on a permanent basis. If someone thinks Kosovo and Metohija are not part of the Republic of Serbia, it is a question for those who think so. However, it is said here that it is clear and loud that the main task of the Development Fund is to encourage the economic development of the Republic of Serbia on a permanent basis. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, the Fund can also carry out other matters of interest for the Republic of Serbia. So it is clear that it covers activities throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the definition of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is given by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say once again, that there would be no manipulation by this member, that the Development Fund is also approving loans to companies from Kosovo and Metohija today. The only problem that happens in practice, given that the Fund has single rules of business, is that it is difficult to establish mortgages in some areas of Kosovo and Metohija, since courts do not want to issue a mortgage certificate. The Fund then, during the previous year, found transitional solutions by giving the companies that actually worked on Kosovo and Metohija's territory, and they registered with us even though the courts of Kosovo and Metohija gave them no mortgage, our courts approved mortgages and received loans, both classic loans from the Development Fund and microcredits for self-employment, as well as agricultural loans. So the loans are definitely going to companies working on Kosovo and Metohija territory and today, they will continue. Of course we have a problem with the court system. The judicial system in Kosovo's territory will not allow the mortgage to be placed, we are rerouting it, at this point, in the following way. I repeat, the Development Fund should encourage the economic development of the Republic of Serbia throughout its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22432	Misreading, based on the replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22433	Mr. President, I have nothing against what Mr. Dinkic said, but there is one problem. It doesn't say. That's all there is to it. Mr Dinkic, please take a look at the bill, a proposal for the provisions of the law that are being amended, which are being complemented. That's page three. Article 3 of the Law has two positions. I'm reading to you the second attitude that you've now changed. You have, however, changed attitudes first and second in the text, which reads: "The Fund on Development Principles encourages economic development, participates in achieving regional development policy, and can also, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, do other jobs." That's what you suggested. What's a replacement? You have now deleted the following text: "The Fund participates in the creation of programming, infrastructure and other conditions of importance for the development of underdeveloped areas and for the achievement of general interests for the Republic in certain areas, including the halting and return of Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with the law, or its programme." Now you're telling me that it's all covered, and we're telling you that we need to keep what's in point 2. He's got to stay. This was our goal for this country to say – priority, which means the word encourages, allows for better conditions, for all those who live there and who want to return to their own to use these funds. We have tabled here a bill requiring amendments to the Social Protection Act, so we have even predicted as a form of social protection that all those who remain in Kosovo and Metohija have incomes in the 500-euro dinar equivalent per month. You said it didn't fit into the social security program, you're going to have a new law in a whole way to solve it. That law was here at the vote, not included in the agenda. We respect that procedure, we're in parliament, it's known that there are authorities. Later came the Social Security Act. There's something I can't say isn't, but it's not enough. We have principled objections. We said in principle that we're not for this fund, we're for a strong development bank, and we've pointed out all the problems of using the funds that are under the benefits of the market, where paperwork is spilled, money is taken and something else is going on. We're aware that it exists as a problem, it needs to be stopped, it's difficult to stop, but it can be stopped. We care at this point that in attitude 2, the words are: Kosovo and Metohija, the return of the evicted, the relief of living conditions for those who remain. I told you that private property is sacred in Europe, so be it in Kosovo and Metohija. I've only strengthened your principle. Then you go with some objective, neutral attitude for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. I know you do. You're talking about a mortgage problem. The problems with the mortgage exist in Belgrade, the same as in Kosovo and Metohija, only it is even more pronounced there. There's a problem in the pen, and there's a problem in the bullet. That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22434	We've allowed the misreader to answer. And you're misread? Based on that replica? Then we can do it forever. It's not right. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic. Of course, I'm not gonna stop anyone, but just to speak correctly. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic, it's your amendment, but next time correct to agree on the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am dissatisfied with this statement by the minister, and I have to react, because the word Kosovo and Metohija means a lot to me and I don't see any Serb, no Serbian citizen, to whom it bothers to stand in the bill, whether it's a Serb, whether it's not a Serb. There are problems in Serbia, there are many poor, many need help. But we still have to put our hands on the heart and say that the most endangered are those who live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija today. How are we supposed to keep these people from living down there? The economic situation will do exactly that to make Serbs disappear from Kosovo, unless the government takes steps, does not encourage exactly the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the mortgage problems. There goes the mortgage law, so he will adopt himself; the procedure will be facilitated, so that Serbian hosts in Kosovo and Metohija can live and work. They don't ask much. They're asking for a little, but they're asking this country to protect them specifically. The Serbs are not in the cities of Kosovo and Metohija. In 70% of cases, Serbs remain in the country to live. These are villages in Kosovo Pomoravlje, only three cities remain in northern Kosovo, and these are all rural households. And they need what every farmer needs: a tractor, a cow, a heifer, a pig, a calf to survive and feed his family. It's so small for this state of Serbia that it can invest, it has a priority just in this bill. I'd like to remind Mr Dinkic of his statement while he was governor of the National Bank of Serbia. He lectured at an American college and after a lecture on the situation in banking, finance in Serbia, a student asked him – Mr Dinkic, how do you plan to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija? Mr Dinkic replied to remind him – we left it to you Americans. Is this because of the adoption of a bill like this? - Why are you asking me that, sir? I'm asking you because this girl is from Kosovo and Metohija. What kind of minister or governor of the National Bank goes to a foreign state and says: we left Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. That is why I doubt the correctness that through one sentence – the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija go both. Why not be both Kosovo and Metohija? Why can anyone mind Kosovo and Metohija sentences? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22436	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I strongly protest that Minister Predrag Bubalo is not here today. These fine ladies and these gentlemen who came from the Ministry of Finance, everything with Dinkic, they really can't replace Predrag Bubal. It's just amazing that we're discussing a law that was passed in 1992 and that is now changing in a radical way. That's why we've tabled these amendments, and the minister's not here. Did he go with Kostunica to visit the Ustasha Croatian government, whether he went to negotiate, and you who frown should know that in addition to all the betrayals so far, our country's economic betrayal is at stake. If our businesses are under the protection of Slovenia and Croatia, nothing should be funny to you. You should have frowned on Dinkic earlier when he talked about it when someone, imagine and talk to radicals, said Kosovo and Metohija. That is what Ljubomiru Kragovic, who was elected MP in 1992 and has since been an MP in all councils. Ljubomir Kragovic was a national MP when the Development Fund was passed; five thousand times more competent than Dinkic to talk about it, because Dinkic could not see the National Assembly on the postcard. He was some failed assistant and he's in that status day and day. Imagine, he now tells a man who is an authentic representative of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, not like these self-proclaimed, that he does not know what he's saying. It's such an insolence and insolence, and I don't think a cheeky bug would go if he were here today, but he's not here today. He is the most responsible to tell us why this is the purpose of Article 3 of the Law, i.e. why the existing Article 4 is changed. I can't and I reacted at point 1. That's what the present ladies and gentlemen from the Ministry see. I asked that funding from the privatisation of state and social capital, since we still have this formulation under the Constitution, and this legacy from the past times social capital, i.e. the sale of enterprises in this property form, to include those assets from the sale of enterprises in the Development Fund. I was given an explanation, and I saw it in an explanation of the text of the Act that is changing, that it is not possible and that this is actually the basic reason why this law is being amended, because in 2001, the DOS government was then inaugurated, and when Alexander Vlahovic was ministered, the Privatisation Act that excluded such an opportunity – that the privatisation funds would be incorporated into the Development Fund. As they ruled it out, we later knew the affair of Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic – that the funds from the Development Fund were used for her father-in-law and the opening of some suspicious nightclub. As these funds from the Fund are being drawn to all possible sides and how even then, and above all, the SPS representatives advocated that the funds be, and even the DSS MPs, involved and were against such a law in that part, I know very well. I can't figure out how it's possible that you're rejecting this possibility that with the privatisation funds, this little bit that's left, except for the large public enterprises that the tycoons threw their paws at, and what's huge capital, I mean, first of all, NIS, EPS, so don't you think it makes sense that some of those funds go to the Development Fund. If many companies have already been sold out through one robbery privatisation, workers have lost their jobs, not a respected social programme, and you yourself know what members of the Committee and the Chairman of the Privatisation and Economy Committee have come about and how many disputes are being led to competent courts and how many processes have been initiated by the Privatisation Agency due to irregularities. Then how does logic not impose on you that out of five dinars, two dinars or three, I am now hypothetically speaking, it should be directed to the Development Fund. You sell out everything once, fill in budget holes, and that's what Djelic did and he ruined us both in 2001, 2002 and 2003, and you continued to act like that since 2004. You are filling the budget gaps from the privatisation process, and you are not investing in the Fund that should contribute precisely to what you have indicated as the basic intensity of this law: to finance small and medium-sized enterprises with private capital, to finance exports, through the approval of credit for crafts, to prepare exports, to grant loans to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, as well as the approval of loans to encourage employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs. All of this, beautifully written, sounds wonderful, and when you go to one of these, as you called, the region and in some town, in the headquarters of a Serbian district and knock on the authorities and ask for some of these loans, there's nothing. They get privileged ones, they get those close to the parties in power. I don't know how many calls I have, from various citizens from all over Serbia, to this assembly number of phones, and especially from the Shumadi County: from Topola, Arangelovac, Kragujevac – people ask me where these famous loans are. You know, if someone in the flag after 30 years has been thrown into the street and given him a severance of 5,000-6,000 euros and told him it's some initial capital that he can start a new job with and compete with the fund or ask for some of the favourable loans, he should come out if he has the courage of any MP from the ruling Kragujevac coalition, let him say what the number of people from the flag has received credits. There's not one! People spent it on purpose, to pay off their debts, to live their lives. Many wanted to, and I know many cases of young people who stayed with their families to live in the country, they want to do vegetable production, they want to plant an orchard. Who knows how many towns and district seats they've visited from their place, there's no room. It's all divided into a spoon and mostly privileged, both during DOS power and since you've exercised power. People who are free to compete and who are both craftsmen and entrepreneurs, who would like to do so and get some favourable arrangements, were not in a position, unless they were linked to political structures from the top of the government. In order for this fund to have the potential and potential to be able, under some future equal conditions, when the SRS will rule in Serbia, because you know that we are excluded from any form of protection and nepotism, it is necessary to channel the funds from privatisation, and what I have suggested by amending Article 4 or point 1) to the Development Fund. So we will be sure that in the future privatisation process, but we have to prevent robbery when it comes to both NIS and EPS, any factory that is not privatised, a certain amount of funds goes to the Fund to return to production. And in order to return, there must be a fundamental legal framework without corruption, without crime, and that people freely compete for those funds. You know, I'm sure you have friends and acquaintances and neighbors who'd start some private business, which are perhaps the best years to work, maybe they're members of your families, who have no one to turn to. To go to the banks that on these high interest rates give these loans and it's not worth it to anyone. So, just put the noose around your neck! The only option is to get a favourable arrangement, so these are loans like this; it's the same for you with this state-owned apartment corporation, who comes to that because it's a lottery, it's a limited amount, and to go to a bank, it's a whole different story. So, if he comes into a situation that under favourable conditions from the state, he gets a loan from the Development Fund, hires someone, then he'll be stimulated and starts that production and does something to hire as many people as possible. First he hires himself, maybe some family member. Think about it, because great misery and poverty are present in Serbia because of unemployment. You know we have a healthy workforce, but people don't have a job. Where to hire when these factories are closed. It's easy for you to talk in campaigns and make a declaration only, so the future is in small and medium-sized enterprises. From the time of Branislav Ivković to today, the same panel is spinning. Where are these companies, they're gone?- I'm sorry. This morning I heard that the business delegation of Serbia and the City of Belgrade (remembered after so many years) to the Russian Federation, on the 28th of this month, present the possibilities, potentials and readiness of our businesses to produce which we have exported to the Russian market. With one of the largest and most powerful countries in the world, we have a signed free trade agreement and they want to accept it, and they are at a price, every product that comes from Serbia. Because that's the legacy we have from the previous period, 20, 30 and more years ago, when we've been working extremely businessly with the former Soviet Union. Then how can you expect any part of that contract to be realised if we don't have production and these small and medium-sized enterprises that are able to produce something? You know what that foreign trade balance is? At an annual level of about a billion and 500 million dollars, of which: 300 million of us towards the Russians, and gas and oil, means, in the rest of the billion and 200 million, some other products, some raw materials that come into our country. Think about it, and don't take it so blindly that you accept everything a minister from the government serves you, even if the one you continue to warmly support. You will see that this will have negative consequences, negative for our economy, which is in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22438	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22439	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported, above all, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point to mention the SPS. I think that Miss Jovanovic is on a good track in terms of what she was talking about, and this is indeed a multi-year advocate of the SPS in this House, regardless of what the government was at that time, and when it was the government of Mr Djindjic, later Mr Zivkovic, and even when it comes to the part relating to the orientation of the funds achieved on the basis of privatisation, or on the basis of the revenues from privatisation. You see, where we're slightly different now and what we're different about is that we agreed with Mr. Bubal to vote for this law after all, the difference is in the next one. All these five years, privatisation has not served as one of the sources of revenue from the Development Fund. The bill said, the future Development Fund will not be able to finance itself from the budget. It is also said that any recapitalisation of the Development Fund cannot also be made through budget funds. Then we got that thing straight. I have no reason not to trust Mr. Bubal and I'll tell you what this is about. So, if we're not going to finance from the budget, that means we're going to keep at the level of capital that is currently in that Fund and it's about 450m euros or 38 billion euros. This Fund, as you know, has worked very successfully in the past 13 years and the SPS as the founder of this Fund at a time when it was in power, there is indeed reason to be proud of the Fund. With the Minister, Mr. Bubal, we've cleared up the next thing. Just because it says the Fund cannot be recapitalised from the budget doesn't mean it can't be recapitalised by other means. These other funds are also stated in some ways in the law, but these other funds can also be revenues from privatisation. That's what matters now. So there could be revenues from privatisation, because by definition they're not revenues from the budget. I'm talking about what we've cleared up with the Minister, Mr. Bubal. This means that revenue for the recapitalisation, i.e. resources for the recapitalisation of the Development Fund, can also be achieved on the basis of the sale of a part of public enterprises such as NIS. I purposely speak – works, because we socialists in part mean possible sales, but up to 49%, and always so that the state remains the majority owner of these public enterprises, just as it is in the law, i.e. in the proposal to amend and supplement the Development Fund law, it is said that the state in each variant will remain the owner of the Development Fund in a percentage that cannot be less than 51%. Of course, when it comes to selling these so-called so-called. large public enterprises, therefore, like NIS, EPS, we have access to that part of these funds should also be used for the capitalisation of the pension fund and some other funds that are currently in the deficit, but also for the development of infrastructure. The basic intensity of the SPS programme, and I see that it has also been accepted in this core definition of government, is that the Development Fund grows one day into a development bank. If it will someday function as a development bank, then it means that part of the Fund will have to be privatised in a way that does not involve selling 49%, but in a way that implies finding strategic partners to invest 440m euros in these 450m euros, so that the Fund will grow with its capital to almost 990m or almost a billion dinars, or euros, but in any case the state in that variant will remain the majority owner of the Fund. It's the most important thing for us. At the same time, the Socialists presented their view that it is necessary to pass a law on the so-called "Bubal" as well as here for the assembly speaker during the principle debate. regional development. Why? Because, among other things, the provisions of this law state that one of the main functions of the Fund will be to encourage even regional development. In order for this function of the Fund to come true, we must have a law on regional development that will define this matter to the end. I've been informed that it's already in the draft law, there's one draft, and we'll probably have a draft of the law for the first months of next year. Then we have a complete whole story. So, even regional development, fostering small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging employment. When we have an incentive for employment and the real basis on which future employment will be done, then we have some other problems solved, and that means: the rapid filling of the pension fund based on contributions, the accelerated filling of the Institute of Health, or the Health Fund, on the basis of the contributions and the rest of the resources resulting from this for the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. So that's what the Socialists are saying, I think quite clearly and with a lot of arguments, with a lot of confidence in Mr. Bubal, that we will get what we are looking for and what stems from Ms. Jovanovic's discussion. I repeat, regional development, the future of the Fund as a development bank, privatisation through recapitalisation, i.e. an increase in these funds. With all these conditions that exist now in the functioning of the Fund, therefore, lower interest than in commercial and business banks, grace periods and other benefits, I am quite sure that they will act incentivically on new employment, which is the essence of every economic policy, especially in the conditions of the Republic of Serbia when we have almost a million unemployed. So we're going to solve all those problems that at this point cannot be solved by some formal provisions and changes in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22440	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to speak with the President of the National Assembly and try to invite an authorised representative on this agenda item, perhaps some amendments to the SRS would be accepted. By explaining my amendment, I will try to show that it is necessary to adopt these amendments in order for this law to function properly. I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Jovanovic Todorovic, who made an effort to make a part of the job, which was to be done by Minister Bubalo, but I find it a little strange that Mr. Todorovic submitted an amendment to this law, so he withdrew it. If Minister Bubalo explained everything on the Committee, on which he was present, where did the need for submission come from, and then the withdrawal of the amendment? I don't want to go into controversy with Mr. Todorovic this way, but I just wanted to say about this performance. Indeed, I find some things a little clearer about the very reason for this law. The SRS parliamentary group submitted four amendments to the law and we respect the period when this fund was established, which is in 1992. Personally, I believe that this fund has contributed to the development of certain enterprises, as well as certain areas, in certain municipalities where these funds have been placed. Of course, during the 13 years that this fund existed, there was also abuse of the use of these funds. Now I wouldn't talk about it, let the competent authorities deal with it further. During his response to the amendment of MP Ljubomir Kragovic, Minister Dinkic said both by the Constitution and by the day before yesterday that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. That's absolutely true. Especially we Serbian radicals know that. I appreciate that the other MPs and the public in Serbia know that, but it would be good to stand. Then, I cannot accept the explanation Mr. Todorovic heard by Minister Bubal. We will not now write that the collection of funds at the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia can be of privatisation and can exist. In fact, some of the provisions of this law we fully support: the allocation of funds from this fund and its control, we respect and even think that this should be sharpened and strengthened. The composition of the Governing Board at the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, where seven ministers are scheduled to be there, I do not know the criteria which the minister may be, which he does not, but we do not dispute. I suppose you want to control the spending of those funds. If there are seven ministers in this Fund, I suppose the intentions will be clear and objective and there will be less abuse than in the previous period, in the period behind us. Then, I submitted an amendment to Article 4 and to Article 5. We have often complained that the essence of our amendments is to delete a member. Now the legislator of this law proposes to delete one member, and I propose to delete that member who proposes to delete a member of the former law and to remain as it was before, which reads: "The funds referred to in Article 4(2) of the law are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget of 1.5% of the total social product for the previous year, you are counting on the principle of maturity. The funds referred to in Article 1 shall be transferred to the Fund monthly, up to 1/12 no later than 10 days after the end of the month. "It was in the former law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. We in the SRS suggest that it remain because Mr Todorovic said how much the funds of this fund are and it cannot be increased. We know what our situation is in the economy and in Serbia at all. New funds need to be made. These are the funds of the fund that are currently in place and are not the funds of the fund that are available. The owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts and other entities interested in competing with funds from the fund cannot count on the total of those assets, because these are funds owned by the fund. We don't even dispute that 51% of the fund's assets, when it becomes a stock company, remain in the hands of the state. In fact, all that we think will improve the work of the Fund itself, both in the placement and use of these funds, we are in favour of staying, and what should improve not only the work of the Fund, but also the users of the Fund's funds, or their idea of developing small and medium-sized enterprises, we advocate that these provisions change. We also support the idea of reducing public spending, but not this way. Yesterday, a large number of colleagues spoke, not from the SRS, but from other political parties, of the possibility of saving public funds, and through the People's Office of the President of the Republic, and through part of the funds allocated through the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, which is spent in the way they were spent and where they are completely controversial. We're about to keep those funds from increasing. For me, what Mr. Todorovic was saying is suspicious. Of course, he didn't speak for himself, he said what Minister Bubalo said. Whether the assets from the sale of the company, therefore from privatisation, will go to this fund. But from what is already being spent as public spending, only a slightly different distribution to focus it on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, we would be pleased that it works that way. So already defined budget funds for 2006 if only from some positions were transferred to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and then it would be good, then it would benefit the citizens of Serbia. Where the minister should sit, that's where the bag is now. In order not to pull the minister’s parallel – a bag, I do not think it is appropriate for the bags to be brought into the National Assembly’s room and I suggest that it be placed below.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22442	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22443	So, I don't want to argue with my distinguished colleague, Sredo Periæ, because we have very correct relations, but in order to clarify. True, I submitted the amendment, so I withdrew that amendment for exactly the reasons I was talking about earlier. What did I propose with my amendment? I proposed to delete this provision on the possible capitalisation from the budget, but after these clarifications I accepted – if the Fund will be privatised on the basis of the capitalisation and investment of new funds, I just illustrated it. At the current 450m euros, we add 440 and we have 990, and we have the structure of 51% of the owner of the state, 49% of the owner of the strategic partner or more who invested in that fund. I had caution about what would happen in phase three, when those who have 49% would like to invest additionally in that fund, so they could raise it to, say, a billion and 200 million euros. What's the state's reaction to that, in case there's a provision left that can't be recapitalised from the budget? That's where I got the answer that pleases both me and the SPS parliamentary group and satisfies the essence. Then we will react with funds that are not from the budget, which are achieved on the basis of privatisation. That's what we'll do. If these strategic partners are going to tell you now, we're investing a hundred million and we're going to invest as a state 100 million to keep the ownership relationship compared to 51 to 49 percent, that's the point. So this is where the budget is important. It can't come from the budget based on the current funding of the Fund, it can't be based on capitalisation, but it can be based on other funds. That's what I believe, because I have no reason not to trust Mr. Bubal and the people who gave it to us, because until now, what they told us, we had reason to believe and it happened as they said. That's why I pulled the amendment, not for other reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22444	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22445	Amendment to Article 6. The Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law was submitted by the Verse of Radet. "Article 7 after Article 1 adds a new position 2 which reads: the Fund submits a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at least once a year." The original law stipulates that the Fund submits a report to the government of the Republic of Serbia every three months. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Law, Article 7, the report is scheduled to be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia once a year. When I was talking about this law in principle, I noticed one illogicality. Where the state should take the money, that is, that is, the money is required, as it was in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, to be adjusted once a year with the cost of living. We asked it to be more than once a year, and in the end you accepted, probably because of the blackmail of the SPS, which amended it, to make it twice a year. So where the state is supposed to make money inflation is small, it practically doesn't exist, it's enough once a year to reconcile. Where funds are collected, there are problems and there is much more to be coordinated there. It's a illogicality that you can't apply when you're dating laws in front of the National Assembly. What is the essence of the explanation, why this amendment is not accepted. She's very strange. In fact, it is claimed that there is double control of the fund's spending and that that is quite enough, so that the Fund has no need to submit a report to the Republika Srpska Assembly. What is this law that we are bringing as ambassadors? Why didn't the government regulate the way the Fund function by some regulation, because this law already existed? They could by regulation formulate it differently, regardless of the law or put this law out of force and form a fund by means of a regulation. If they had already allowed the Assembly to talk about it and the MPs to declare the value of this law and its quality, they had to allow the National Assembly, as the highest legislative authority, to control the Fund. Given that the inflow of funds of the Fund is excluded from the budget, that, first of all, it means the anunities that will be derived from already paid loans, the donations that will not be guaranteed, regardless of what it says here, the minister, when he spoke about this law in principle, boasted that the Fund owns a large amount of money, to measure it hundreds of millions of euros, and then I said, I am saying it now, that it should not be praised, because the Fund will be successful when there is a passing institution through which the money will come – as soon as it comes into the Fund to be placed further, and not to keep those funds and to look at the way it will be treated. The reply also says that practically the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not provide that the Assembly may request that some state institutions and bodies submit any report to the Assembly. I don't really know where it says it and which member of the Rules of Procedure it was prescribed, even though I didn't have time literally to follow it all. I still don't think that's prescribed, and I think that's a pretty bold response from the government to explain why this amendment isn't being accepted. Nothing would be bad, given that the Fund should work by speeding up, it is said in principle, a balanced regional economic development in the Republic of Serbia and nothing would be bad if the Serbian Parliament once a year had the opportunity to practically get information here on the business of the Fund, on placed funds, in which way and where they were spent, because then they would have a lot of data from some of their local environments where these funds came in various competitions and we would see how they were spent. I was talking about some of the funds that the Fund has already placed, when it comes to Bor, have been very unintendedly spent. That no one was responsible for this, for getting millions of dinars on a project to build a dairy in a village, and then for making the same money a car-a salon, and no one ever answers for it. In the redistribution, the same man, therefore, is competing with the same private firm and is receiving ten million dinars, and the Fund should, among other things, speed up and hire, from which no new job can be made again, but these funds are suitable because they are very low interest rates compared to banks that approve loans. That way it's enough just to manipulate money, to return annuities, as it's written here, to fund funds, and thus to get rich. No one's controlling you whether you've opened any drive, whether you've acquired new machines, whether you've received a certain number of workers or not. So that's something that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be asked about or at least allowed once a year to get some report on the Fund's business. On the basis of the report, MPs here could go out for a pay phone and say their opinions, and believe me, from most of the Serbian town, MPs would have a lot of stories to tell the assembly payphone about how funds of the Fund are not being spent. When I spoke in principle, I paid the most attention to this particular member because the distribution of these funds was also conditioned in the largest number of cases by political belongings or by someone, in some previous period, from those private firms mainly concerned by funding someone's pre-election campaigns and even party activities of those who rule today. They are those from local self-government who propose certain businessmen from their municipalities who compete for the Fund's funds – and then the "mig" from local self-government arrives and are said to have ten people who have applied for it, and you need to allocate funds to it. When those funds lie in the account, no one controls the intentional use anymore. This amendment, which is required to report to the Assembly once a year, is really important. MPs should accept it, although under current functioning we have a lot of laws that have provided for one type of report to the annual Assembly, however, this is not happening, even if you accept this amendment, I do not believe that it will oblige you. If the Government has not remembered in two years that once before the National Assembly, any report, of course you accept, this amendment will not be binding on the Fund, because in principle, the Assembly is acting under the government's dictatorship, or executive authority. None of the proposals stemming from MPs or parliamentary groups come here on the agenda. MPs who apparently support the majority have accepted the dictatorship. From a position that can be approved, but cannot be considered normal, given that I should be represented by a special group of authorities. So, let me go back to the amendment. It is illogical that you have deleted that the Fund submits a report to the Government every three months, because the government would have much more information on what happens to the Fund's funds, what is the inflow of funds into the Fund, and how much they are placed from the Fund for the Development of Economy. So, what you predicted once a year, believe that the annual report will be very easy to make up, that practically in front of the government at one of the sessions, which is loaded with thirty points of the agenda, some material will be the report on the Fund's work. This will be unanimously adopted without reading, as well as the fact that a large number of MPs here are unable to read or refuse to read the laws that we are passing. Then the Fund runs out of control, and believe me, much stronger and better control would have been if we had committed the Fund with this amendment to report to the National Assembly at least once a year and that it could be discussed. But it should be anticipated, if the report submitted by the Fund, the National Assembly, through its debate, contests, that the authorities (and the supervisory and administrative) that manage the funds that make the decisions on the allocation of these funds should be changed later. There is a lot of illogicalness, starting with the article that deletes the name of Kosovo and Metohija, later in the changes of individual members and practically comes down to this whole amendment and addition proposal, that the Fund will be one institution, a state, something similar to the functioning of the bank. He'll live off interest without the allocation of funds, we're already told, if he has several hundred million euros lying in the Fund, there's no interest in developing an economy, and trust me that the largest number of border areas I talked about yesterday is crying out for the means to start production starting with agriculture, to some others, plus if a huge budget surplus is included, which we're talking about here. It is completely unclear to the MPs why our economic situation is so dreary, in addition to the huge funds available to the Fund, the trade surplus, and yet you do not want at least once a year to discuss the Fund in such a way that the Fund will submit a report. You should accept this amendment. If you accept it, they will see for themselves that you, who represent most, will answer that you can hear once a year about how the Fund's funds have been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22446	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have adopted this amendment. The amendment of MP Jovan Todorovic to article 7 has been withdrawn. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not like to go back to previous members and previous amendments, although I believe that every amendment of the SRS should be adopted, however, I have to go back a little bit to the very name of the Fund. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Development Fund didn't invent DOS, it didn't come up in 2000. The Development Fund existed back in Tito's day and was filled with Serbia's economy. I know and build, investments are funded from that fund in underdeveloped areas. So the huge funds went to Kosovo and Metohija, the same Kosovo and Metohija, which the yellow and the Wolf want to give. Now these assets, these investments, these UNMIK factories sell, inn as if it were his fatherland. I know that my firm was, not to say, forced by the Republic, to install the most modern technology at the time into Kosovo and Metohija, so we imported the first sphere gas tanks in Đakovica, Kosovo Kamenica, high-end automation and technology from Italy at the time, because Italy was always at the top when it was liquid and oil gas, and we were directly installing it down. About the Fund things have been completely clear since then, and so on. All I care about is, I see you're also predicting stockholders in the Fund, who's gonna be the stockholder, why didn't you put the painting on him? I already see at least three of your sponsors, who will be shareholders of this fund. The question is this. What if the Fund goes bankrupt, what if a conducting or falsified bankruptcy is introduced into the Fund? Who will bear responsibility, and what about the investments that began at that time? Let me get back to the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 where I request that Section 2 be deleted. In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia and you who are just here, I will read Article 7(2) of this law: "The funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot be used for the recapitalisation of the Fund". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that the Fund cannot finance itself in the beginning and that the state must at first separate itself from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For matters to be clear, Article 7 refers to Article 8, where it clearly states as in Article 4, that the Fund cannot be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and these funds cannot be used for the recapitalisation of the Fund. If we turn Article 3, and we see where the Fund funds are allocated, we will see: 1) annuities based on credit ratings, only when the funds are provided, so credits from this fund can be provided and then on the basis of annuities; 2) solidarity aid and other funds of international financial organisations, which are granted to countries in transition to promote the employment and realisation programmes of regional programmes. What if they don't give you those funds? It's not mandatory. It's not the first time they've lied to you. And those six billion are still on the Hungarian border, and they were due to arrive in October 2000. Point 3) Other sources, donations. Is this where you predicted Sorosch? Every penny you take from him fat you have to pay back. He who sells his soul to the devil, and many in Serbia have sold their soul to the devil. Therefore, I suggest that you adopt the SRS amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22448	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22449	This is one of the members best depicting the fundamental and principled difference between the SRS and these parties that make up the majority and who exercise power in the Republic of Serbia. You see, you've had a problem with this article how to define what you've covered by Section 2. You wrote that budget funds are not allowed to recapitalize the Fund. Of course, there are systemic problems. What's this about? The fund is a legal person, but it's not a company. The fund is essentially an account where funds are collected, these funds are channelled through a business bank, but where the funds will be decided by the Fund. What is the task of the Fund's resources? To allow some development to be used and returned under some well-favoured conditions. When they come back, probably as a minimum, it's not to lose a substance. This means that it will return to some period in an increased nominal amount for some market developments that should allow for the absence of real loss of these funds. The fund is not even imagined as some income institution, but as a means that turns the same substance and allows a larger number of entities to develop. Of course, when it comes to the idea that the possible property transformation of this Fund is a legal person, not a business society, then we come to the conclusion that 51% can be in state property, for which there are actions, and 49% in another form of property. Then again, the problem arises why someone would invest 49% in this Fund when by definition it's not something that brings profit, but it can only affect a private to get a relatively good strategic position and condition on the market. I don't want to open the topic any further when it comes to concepts called – a placement of funds through the Fund, where practically the Fund's accounts are run by these state funds, but I want to point out another concept: that it's much better if the state has actions in one of these so-called so-called. Development banks and that through the bank business. Then the state bank under the Law on Banks and Financial Organizations can also do its own recapitalisation, capital increase, etc. Not here. This fund had problems, it should be said, because that bank where those funds were held at one point thought they were their assets, so it got involved in the real decision-making process on the essence and the placement of the Fund's funds. There was always a dispute between some of the former governments, one of the banks where it was being led, which followed, and which certainly had a much greater impact than the Government, on the placement and use of these funds. Now the situation will be identical, with the primate having what you have given as a solution in the next article, that a mini ministerial council be the Management Board of the Fund. Basically, with this concept that you are developing, you create privileged status only for certain individuals and legal persons who would be users of these funds based on the development programme of their small and medium-sized enterprises. We don't need such a fund. It will be selective, will not be based on objective principles, on conditions that have been given in one neutral way, which should enable effective use of these funds. That would mean already seen, already known. The principle difference between the SRS and this concept, which has not been slow since 1992, has been of some importance, has been under certain influence and has now only changed sides of that influence. They changed the names of people who would influence and, in some ways, only to some extent, changed those who could possibly use these funds. The concept of a development bank or a good business bank where, on the basis of the state-owned actions and the placements of some state-owned funds, the benefits of, with, of course, control by a state-owned authority, why not say something that would have been modified access to that solution that you had with the housing insurance corporation, however, there is only insurance, and here would have been a placement. There would probably be one formula that would be economically more cost-effective for the state as an institution that has provided funds, for whoever goes into this project of small and medium-sized enterprises, which you are talking about, but also for the other part of the development of infrastructure that is directed towards underdeveloped areas. I remind you, again, you have so many institutions leading to the infrastructure of accounts, both the republican, the local, the circuit, the para-institutional system of organization. And we don't have a unique view and strategy on how to develop it. The proof of this is the previous item of the agenda where the state is said to have investments, so there is a certain amount of funding, and it is reportedly, some projects that do not have a legal basis, but if we go beyond that and put aside then we will see the Vlasina project, and we will not know how much it will cost, nor know what the essence of this project is, whether it is sewerage, road, electricity or anything else. Furthermore, you have a lot of public enterprises of republican importance that also have their development projects, which are essentially infrastructure: electricity, water, road economy, Telekom. You wrote off Telecom, because, probably, with another 10% of Soros activity, it gets its own telecommunications and fixed telephony system, which the previous and this government has allowed to develop uninterruptedly. The fact that some ministers on TV talked about these cable systems and how they're going to seduce order, tie it to the cat on the tail, because in practice nothing happened. What Mr. Markovic had just explained and when he stated, I think you missed the topic here in the concept, and within your concept you went further with the failure, because you considered this fund as a haven of state resources planned. You said it wasn't possible to capitalize the Fund. I have to tell you right now that you've used the wrong term, because the Fund is not a company, but only one account where the funds are held, and the board of directors decides on the placement of those funds. And if the state has an interest in strengthening its influence, it must also have an obligation to provide additional funds to be placed. You presented the Fund's capital as shares, because you started with the Fund being a legal person dealing with economic activity. He's not that kind of legal person, and that's where you made the mistake. Many mistakes have been made in our regulations, they are in some way legalized and legalized. You see, your influence based on the capital that the state has in banks should, among other things, benefit from such things as development.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22450	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22451	We've finally reached a member who's actually changing this law. It is a member who should say that the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia should also have a dominant impact on these funds. For the public's sake, the new member of the 9th reads "The Fund's Management Order is the Management Board". Now it goes, as we know, and some dear solution: "The board of directors has six members, which are acting as the minister responsible for the economy"; Bubalo, he is a representative of the government for this point of the agenda, but he is not, there is Dinkic's bag; "Minister in charge of Finance", Mladjan Dinkic; "Minister in charge of Science", and this Popović; "Minister in charge of Capital Investments", of course you know, "Minister in Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs", Parivodić, too; "Minister in charge of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management", the lady and "Minister in charge of Work", which is, the MP, Mr Lalović, who, when he says untrue. You see the composition, and what was wrong with writing – the function of the Fund's Management Board is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems that you did not grab that solution, because you have a problem with Police Minister Jocic, Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, probably this Dimitrijevic is bothering you, too, because I don't know who's bothering you. Why did you cut the government short and put it into this board of directors and disabling the entire government? Of course, if the state fund, if you are still in the positions of that concept, the structures managed by the Fund should be representatives of state property, and these are not just ministers. That's got to be understood. There's probably someone else who's not a minister, and he can represent state interests on the board. Every time it went to the governance structures that needed to reflect the government's functions, we were in a field where there was no room for economics. The state is a bad economist. It's been going on for two centuries, and since it's been going on for two centuries, it's just presummation. How, say, these ministers are going to assess the justification, the integrity, the cost-effectiveness of a project. Of course, you'll say they'll use professional services to examine it, etc. Once upon a time, the Chamber of Commerce and every business bank had special departments that examined these investments. During that period with some positions, these items were looked at and they were made to elaborate on socio-economic justification, etc., compliance with development plans, microlocation wider, globally etc. I'm not sure this ministerial board will have that approach. Simply, they cannot, by definition, have this approach, but it will be like this: since from the Municipality of Secnica, the one who is a member and the party should be granted this benefited loan, and in the brackets what is not said, he will finance us in the election with, I don't know, two billboards, five thousand posters, etc. Then the second minister, a member of the board of directors of this fund from another party, will say, "You know what, that's not justified, it's set up on some glass feet." He will not be able to service the liabilities to the fund within these deadlines because it is quite different on the market and he does not need that product, and he planned that export when statistics are taken and how these goods are sold in the world; there is no passage as he imagined in his lab. You know what, we could accept it on condition that it's approved there, because he also has a good project. This is where the interests between these three -- four parties represented, because the functions of ministers are probably in better positions in the political structures of their parties, so we have party orientation. Anyone can challenge what I'm saying. Where's your proof? He'd probably find proof if he got papers on how the fund worked for the past two, three, five, ten years, there's no difference, there's no difference. It's not good for this composition to be on the board of directors. If you're counting on this composition, then it's better that you say: the function of the board of directors is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have much more justification for that. Why? Because the government enforces laws, because according to that basic regulation that regulates state property, which is the Law on assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the quasititular of state property, or whoever decides on the availability, use, management of state resources, and above all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with some of the modalities of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, in the form of consent and with some exceptions concerning local self-government, city building land, public enterprises and services. Some exceptions concerning use and governance, and generally as a general principle of the right of disposal, the government of the Republic of Serbia decides. So that's where you could find the buckle and say the government decides both on the status and functions of the board of directors. You've taken up the concept of the Mini-Government. This selective composition and this composition has quite a value to the idea, which I should not doubt, of good intentions to help state resources develop selected projects that need little help to bring these projects back to life, a little help for certain regions and regions to come to life and work. I mean, globally, you've made a misdetermination in this part too. Why? Since 1986, when some business activities started, conditionally speaking, people who wanted to pretend that privates, starting with trades, gems, some small productions, were mostly in question, and then we acted economically badly as a society. Why? Because we had a process to stagnate production in social enterprises: drives are closing, noises are empty, machines fail. People who have somehow come to their resources and have defined themselves to go into private business have invested their assets in fixed assets, instead of investing some arrangements in crafts, with use, whether the lease or some other form of existing capacities. Now, when you go through Serbia, and I have to tell you that in Belgrade there's a picture that doesn't correspond to reality, you keep Belgrade as a metropolis, but if you start already from the Great Plan towards Vranj, about nine o'clock in the evening, practically, traffic in place is interrupted. Why? Because people have a hard time living, they look from a decent distance to their former firm that's closed. That state didn't do anything to get it started. Before there were some possibilities, or normative solutions that allowed, possibly, a privateer to rent a hall from a social enterprise, working, not to enter... But the people of the moment when they saw that the state didn't work in a principle way, they were simply forced, because mathematics told them -- better my resources to invest in basic assets and start doing some work, than to get in with a bad partner in any kind of lease relationship or conversation, because then everything can come to my head. The majority who entered these combinations, which because of the director of this social enterprise, which is God-protected, which because of the policy, did not enter these combinations and social enterprises have failed thoroughly. There's space. Take all the systems where the halls buzz empty. In that part, nothing was done, possibly with the security of some machines, with some new production programs. Something could be done much faster, in terms of increasing production, increasing efficiency and employment of workers. I have to draw attention to you that even those people who have the means to start with small and medium-sized enterprises, so they found some location that they think is suitable for some things, they have a problem – because they can't provide people who would work in that company. In second place there are qualified tailors, qualified people where a company went down, and if he wants to move here now, he should practically move people, provide some new people. I'm talking about this at the level of a general discussion, without the intention of getting into some concrete things that they're suffering and criticizing, why not. I just want to draw attention to the fact that it's not celery, it's not justified this way to channel funds through this fund with clearly hidden political intentions, purely by the political intentions of some people who need to build a board of directors, and to close our eyes next to something that exists. So it's not in function yet and with an incomparably smaller asset it can be in some function. You could have drawn some conclusions from this Vlahovic privatisation. There are few companies where privatisation has been made under his law and that the number of workers has run out of work. Few of them stayed at work, and even, deliberately, made some union rebellion to use it as a cause for their decision – well, I own it, I don't want to work with my people anymore, close the company, so be it until we finish this labour problem, so when some other time comes, then I'm going to activate it. It's not the purpose of privatisation. If that's not what the lessons are learned, believe me, with this fund, which, by definition, can't have huge resources, let's be honest, because with us, it's all virtual. We have unmistakable obligations over a long period of time, and then we boast about some surplus. We have large foreign reserves, and it is said that foreign reserves are in the function of enabling exports and services of exports, etc. That's not true. This large foreign reserve function as a guarantee of foreign creditors. If someone thinks that the stability of the dinars is kept only by foreign exchanges, and forgets about the stock funds, for 20 years almost all Western European and US states, foreign reserves are not held in gold or in some foreign exchanges, but primarily in funds. The European Central Bank, security funds for the euro, is being held in dollars. You need to read a little bit. I get the impression that you're leading us towards a Europe, and when we're one step ahead of Europe, then we're going to realize that this kind of Europe doesn't exist. Take care, you have one picture of Europe, one picture of strategic interests in Europe, one thought. Europe has changed since these two referendums, it has changed completely, but you have not changed the picture of Europe and the illusion that you are throwing to citizens and businesses, and it seems ridiculous. Funny, get on TV, promote this European road, people get killed by laughter, and some cry, because they say – there's no shame in them. They don't look at CNN and BBC like they're not looking at a report from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22452	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Andric. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Public Entrepreneurs and Obligations of Activities from the General Interests (single) You have received amendments that were submitted to the Bill: Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, MPs: Miljko Četrović, Meho Omerović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Momir Marković, Veroljub Arsic and Vojislav Milajić, as well as the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations abroad. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22453	Mr. Chairman, we don't have a government representative here again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22454	We're hoping he'll come, since his stuff is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22455	She was hoping for a turkey and ended up in a pot. Don't inform us like that. She was hoping, so she didn't get married, so what do we do? You know, what's given as the government's position and the government's response to the amendment to Miljko Cevrovic, I don't know if you're in a fight there when you write, because Mr. Cevrovic just corrected what the government wanted to do with this bill. What's this about? The government put an autonomous province here at the end of the sentence, we felt that what is prescribed in the Constitution should be respected, so when a definition is given of what is a public enterprise, then those companies established by the state, then AP, and then units of local self-government go into the list first. So we think it's some kind of natural flow. However, I must tell you, given that I worked at the final stage of this law on public enterprises and on the activities of general interest in 2000, to be exact, since some people had done this law before me. Someone's going to ask the question now, how did you drop the AP, so now this government finds it appropriate to insert it? For the simple reason that the founding rights of public enterprises at the time had only the Republic and the units of local self-government, and when Cankov Omnibus Law came, it is now a new circumstance, the AP appeared as the founder and I must tell you that this is a bad solution. That's a bad solution, because that omnibus law is a bad law. Because someone believed that, allegedly, decentralisation should be decided in Belgrade in Novi Sad, at the time Canak thought it would be better if he decided than Zoran Djindjic. Then because of some interest, crazy law, crazy decision, it's not good, and since you're pushing, you're bound by Omnibus law, you think it's the best thing, although it's contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what they were talking about back then, but they all said it out loud, but we have to calm Chanka and Kasa somehow. Then that omnibus law was passed, butchered. When it started to apply, everyone was faced with the problem, because some things were insecure. You're under the impression that you're proposing these changes. It's surprising to me now that you didn't even accept this line of listing. The biggest problem with this intervention of yours is that you don't make a difference what a public enterprise is, what an action of general interest. For this reason you will have the opportunity to hear the arguments of these amendments – what is a public enterprise, what is an activity of general interest. I just came out to, as an introduction, announce this topic and to express the surprise that this amendment has not been accepted, because simply, this amendment is fully in line with these intensities of yours. You said that nothing important changes, just a sequence of lists. It's not just a numbering order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22456	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a subtitle be added to Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22457	Mr. Chairman, a moment ago Zoran Krasic drew attention that we are discussing the law again in detail without government representatives. It's inadmissible, it's anti-business. I suggest you interrupt the session until you get the minister to come here, one of these two. I guess Dinkic's here because we don't have the information where he is, and we know about the Bug that he went to Mesic. He should be prevented from doing what we're doing here, rather than getting Mesic to tell him something, probably like Drnovsek the other day. So, we insist and for the sake of the public, I would like to say that last week we held up the session twice because the minister wasn't here when the budget was being debated. Today, the Law on Public Enterprises is being amended. As much as you present it as a change, as something, let me say, less importantly, it's about one essential problem. Before I start talking about the amendment and the law, please let me hear your opinion on whether we will continue to work against the Rules of Procedure and without the Minister, or you will take a break and bring the gentleman here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22458	Mrs. Radeta, the expert service will ask where the minister is and if there's any hope of coming soon. We'll keep working. In case he can't make it soon, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22459	Please take a break, and then let's see if he comes for this bag he left here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22460	They've already gone to see what's going on with the minister. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22461	All right, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and you're breaking Markovic. First, you have brought a Rules of Procedure under which you have no responsibility and no obligation whatsoever. And the way he is, you don't want to apply. Okay, that's what the citizens of Serbia will remember, to evaluate and evaluate very quickly. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises. The government gave us this proposal here with 22 members, something I guess it should've gone through without a lot of comments, but then the government made one gaff. They thought they were very smart, and normally they weren't, so then the Serbian government proposed an amendment which is essentially an amendment to this law, which is an amendment to which the government adds Article 9a and in paragraph 1 says: "In public enterprises and enterprises with the majority participation of state capital, the issue of sale is up to 70% of the state capital to be privatised. "This is the essence. EPS, NIS and other public enterprises should be sold to tycoon and godfathers, of course, with a good commission of 70%. Dear colleagues, if this amendment passes and if truly the strategic good Serbia is sold as a percentage of 70% who knows who, Serbia has left economically irrevocably. That's why Mladjan Dinkic doesn't want to sit here, he doesn't want us to ask him who he means to sell strategically good Serbia at 70%. Then what are you doing? Yesterday, the day before yesterday, all MP groups are receiving representatives of some movement that has submitted a motion for change, excuse us, they are called "The People's Initiative", they have over 500 thousand signatures and some draft laws need to be put on the agenda. Then the government stalls, stalls the president of the assembly. All the heads of parliament groups they've been talking to, people say they've been told they'll support putting it on the agenda. We told them yesterday that you were all lying to them, that you put this law on the agenda, that first you will, through the adoption of the amendment of the Government of Serbia, to sell out 70% of strategically important enterprises for Serbia, and then you will tell those people: we will put on the agenda, but sorry, we no longer have free shares for you, or you will give them that 30% which remains free of charge, which they can tie the cat to the tail. If government officials sell 70 percent of these companies to their godfathers, which means free action to those 30%, which no one will ever need again. Will anyone who gets under the grain, with a good commission, EPS or NIS, come to think of buying those 30% shares that you'll be free to share? You are a permanent liar to the people of Serbia. All the things you were saying in the election campaign, you've completely turned it around, you're totally different, and you're trying to be something very smart now, so you're telling a story, and then you're proposing a law here, so, like, the government later thought that the amendment intervenes on the law. Tell the citizens of Serbia. There is no Dinkic, of course, where he can hear this and say it. Tell those of you who will vote for this law, say: Dear citizens of Serbia, thank you for choosing us then, we are lying to you now. We don't care what we promised you anymore, we now want to sell out everything that's left of that previous government. All that has been done economically in Serbia from 2000 to today is to sell out everything that is worth in Serbia. You've done nothing to make this people live better. You didn't open any factories. You've closed everything that used to be done. Those who left the assembly say they will not discuss Kosovo and Metohija, these Tadic's "yellows", because it is not, they say, the most important issue in the Republic of Serbia, the most important issue. However, they are more important economic problems, so they are not to discuss the budget, so they are not to say that this amendment cannot be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sell out public enterprises. Why aren't they here? They're accusing someone else of supporting the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Why aren't they here? So they can get away with it, and they agree with them together, because Bubalo and Vlahovic, when they show up on TV as guests of the opposing sides, act like brothers born, "as Vlahovic said", "as Bubalo said". So we know all of this and we're telling Serbian citizens that you're exactly the same, same DSS and DSS, you just care about destroying everything that can be destroyed in Serbia. The most frightening thing is that you will accept this amendment and that you will sell these strategic enterprises with a good commission. Imagine the citizens of Serbia when they sell you 70 per cent of the EPS and then whoever buys it won't think. He will not care if Serbian citizens are economically strong enough to pay electricity at the price it will (this new tycoon,) determine the new owner. Whoever wants to pay, and who can pay, and who can't have electricity. If most citizens can't, and unfortunately over 50% of Serbian citizens are poor and can't pay for this kind of electricity, let alone some tycoon price, what will happen? Whoever buys it will say, "We don't care, you live and return to the 19th century, you don't need electricity, we will export your Serbian electricity and sell it to whoever can pay for it." That's what you do with this law, so you change Article 8 on which Nemanja Sarovic submitted the amendment and you determine what the powers of the board of directors are, it's like something very important, which is what we do here. As we deal with these amendments, you will make a fine amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will become an integral part of the law. To see those MPs, representatives of the SPS who claimed they would not vote for this law unless this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been withdrawn, and we will see in the day to vote who will behave. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the SRS parliamentary group has submitted proposals for amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation. Here we predicted that the strategic good of Serbia should not be privatised at a rate greater than 49 per cent. So only 49 percent can be privatized. The state of Serbia must be the majority owner of these and such enterprises. These suggestions of ours, of course, didn't come on the agenda. When the president puts the vote on whether you accept this proposal from the SRS parliamentary group to put it on the agenda, you press the red button, you are against, you don't even know what we have suggested, you haven't read anything, you don't know what it means for the state of Serbia or for the citizens of Serbia. You're playing, ladies and gentlemen, with the National Assembly, as is the President, when he allows us to discuss these things without a minister, and then it's someone's fault that journalists write about MPs and this assembly, everything they write. Of course, they see the attitude of parliamentarians to governmental proposals, according to proposals from Serbia's largest opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, don't play with strategically good Serbia. If this amendment of the Serbian government passes, if public enterprises are privatised 70 per cent, be aware, you are destroying Serbia. If once a tycoon takes an EPS, NIS, JAT, what remains of these strategic goods to the state of Serbia and this people? Be serious, you didn't come here just to stay or just walk through the assembly. You came here to do something for the citizens of Serbia. You've made a coalition that you've made, completely out of your mind, out of logic, far beyond election results and let you. You work as long as you have such a majority. We don't mind. As long as you can, we'll knock you down and knock you down every day. We'll see how you go on the budget. What Bogoljub Karić is doing these days, what kind of shop he's having, until Monday, until the vote, who knows what your so-called. The congregation majority, but, of course, it's all your problem. This is a political problem, but I'm telling you about something which is a strategic problem, something, if you accept what will destroy economic Serbia is permanent. Tomislav Nikolic told you a few days ago that part of the Serbian government is conducting an economic betrayal in action. That's the way it is. If you join and vote and pass this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, then you join the entire assembly majority, Vojislav Kostunica and his government, that economic betrayal of the country. Strategic companies should not be allowed to be sold to tycoons, sold to anyone over 49 per cent. You didn't tell that to the citizens in the election campaign. You were telling a whole other story. But you will be very late when you are asked in the next election campaign – what about EPS, NIS and other public enterprises? It'll be too late when you say it, it's bought by some Hamovic, Lazarevic, Karic or I don't know who with 70%. Don't let that happen, ladies and gentlemen, you have no right to do that. You have no rights to the citizens who elected you, you have no rights to generations to come, it is destroyed once and can never come back again, keep that in mind and be aware of it. Please, every time I talk about every amendment to the SRS, I'm going to go out and talk about this, this way. The amendment submitted by Nemanja Sarovic, I recommend that you adopt it, which, believe me, is much less important than not to accept the amendment of the government of the Republic of Serbia, not to allow the sale of strategic goods to Serbia and this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22462	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad accepted the amendment. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. At the same time, I am informing you, the current government representatives (Mr. Dinkic and Mr. Bubalo, we spoke to them yesterday), Mr. Bubalo had to travel to Croatia, and Mr. Dinkic is not in the O.R. at the moment, but is returning. All responsibility is for the president of the assembly who allowed the minister to leave the session for an hour to finish talks with the unions. It is not correct to speak of what it is now, but of course it will return immediately and be present at all times, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, there are members of the Ministry present. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22463	Ladies and gentlemen, today at this session, unfortunately, one of Serbia's greatest frauds is under way. Why am I saying that? I have one big obligation because I'm one of the EPS employees and I'm from Lazarus. It is known that everyone in Lazarevec is employed by EPS, a surface spear of Kolubara and thermal power plants. It's a big commitment. Why do I say that? This amendment to Article 9a, which the government has submitted, gentlemen, is about to make a big scam here, where 70% of the funds are said to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22464	I don't know if you're in progress. You answered article 15, not 9a, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22465	Mr. Chairman, this is where we got all Amendment 9a, a member of the Serbian government. You didn't even read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22466	Of course I didn't read it, I didn't chair. He is now a member of 15, amendment to Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22467	This amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not been read.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22468	Just to check, I didn't have a session before noon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22469	No such amendment has been read at all. He was on Article 8, and on Article 9, but on Article 9a, which we received all MPs, he didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22470	It's okay, because the board didn't consider it. Here you are talking about Amendment 9a, not about the amendment by Ljiljana Nestorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22471	We had a meeting the other day, we were informed in public that the SPS parliamentary group had a specific delegation to discuss this matter and made certain promises. However, gentlemen, we must bear in mind a serious situation, so that we can have great social unrest in the spring because of the gatherings made by Mr Dragas and Branko Pavlovic. There are over 500,000 dissatisfaction with the EPS, which are at risk. Why am I saying that? It has been said that only 49% of public enterprises will be privatized and of course it's some standard that's being applied in the world. However, here we need the minister to explain to the public Lazarec and the general public of Serbia how it is going to privatise public enterprises. It's inadmissible to privatise 70%. Then Serbia itself loses its identity. All over the world, 49% is the most sold. Why don't we apply some model from Slovenia and some normal states? That's why I'm saying it's inadmissible that this is how privatisation is done, because we're going to have big social unrest in the spring. We had a restructuring in EPS and NIS, certain non-productive enterprises were singled out. Therefore, these companies normally go to privatisation, but this production part of course should not be privatised. Therefore, the Serbian government and the minister have an obligation to go public to inform the people of what is actually coming, what will be privatised, not to create a confusion between us MPs and the public of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22472	There's been a little misunderstanding. The technical service explained it to me. So, the amendment, Mr. Stevanovic, I did not lead in the morning, is an amendment 5a, which is added after Article 9a, and the remarks spoken by the MPs in the section I heard. So, it's not 70% more than 30%, I guess, but it's not correct to keep that up to date, it'll let the board of directors know. Once again, we'll be right back. Anyone else on this amendment to Ljiljana Nestorovic? No, I don't. ) (Verica Radeta, from the post: Can I talk about the amendment first to this article? ) Don't do that, I didn't run the session, so I didn't know the MP was uninformed. I believed his word, I checked it, he didn't follow it regularly. It's about the amendment to Article 5, not Article 9 and it's read by the chairman. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22473	Mr. Markovic, I really don't know what you're doing. The last 10 minutes you sat there and chaired, and there was no one at the pay phone, there were no speakers. Please pay attention next time there is no one to ask an MP to come out and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22474	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22475	Mr. Chairman, you don't have to explain this break, we've been consulting here at the club and we've come to the conclusion that you've actually interrupted the session until the minister arrives. After Veronica Radet, no one ever went out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22476	Whether someone was going out or not, but please, it is not correct in this way to express themselves about the MPs of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22477	On the contrary, we support this process of yours, because we have found that he should be a representative of the government here and you are quite right to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in public enterprises across Serbia, chaos, confusion, and now bitterness and fear prevailed above all. The great indignation and great fear exists among employees, for the simple reason that the fate of public enterprises is not only the fate of these employees in enterprises, but also the fate of the state. A country that loses those elemental resources can no longer count its sovereignty. I know that you're ready, that papers are already being prepared, that one minute someone will come in here and tell us that the part that you were planning to sell, to break up, to buy by these, silent and silent ones, and that you'll be shareholders. Public enterprises are state-owned enterprises, precisely because the state relys solely on them. I thought the experience you had with the sale of the tobacco industry in Serbia would be applied to other companies of which the state is financed. But the way we see it, there's nothing. I know the reason. You feel that in the spring, and in the early spring, new elections will change significantly in this assembly and in Serbia, that Serbia's citizens have burned to their nails and now you're trying to sell out everything that can be sold out. I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, and I ask that the words "planned way of distribution of public enterprise" should be added in Article 15 following the words "depending expenditure by purpose" in Article 15. To make it clear to the end, I'm going to read that fourth attitude. And Section 3 says, "The program is considered to be adopted when agreed upon by the founder of a public enterprise." In this case, it should be a state, because the state founded public enterprises. Item 4 reads: ''The programme contains particularly planned sources of income and expenditure positions. "This is where my sentence would come – the planned way of distribution. Therefore, the position of income and expenditure, the planned way of distribution of the profits of public enterprises, and then would continue to go towards the purposes of the element for a comprehensive view of policy, price, product and services, as well as profit and employment policies in the company, i.e. a dependent society, etc. The amendment was rejected by the Government with the following argument – 'Amendment is not accepted by what the Business Society Act is a detailed matter of allocation and payment of profits, with this law leaving the possibility for the issue to be regulated differently in the founding act. On the other hand, the bill indicates that all issues which are not governed by this law are properly subject to the provisions of the law governing the legal position of companies relating to a company with limited liability and a company of action’. Anyone who understands will understand. Probably not even the person who told me why the amendment is being rejected, things are not clear or clear enough for him, but he has to stick to the lines, because we already see the buyers of public enterprises. The other day I explained from this assembly pay phone that tycoons, tycoon groups and the tycoon lobby in Serbia were formed, that the state of Serbia has been robbed since 1990, that the 'Genex' exhibit in London, through which 80% of the businesses went, has suddenly become a private company. Even so, it was called Ju Point, and now it's called the East Point. So then the owner of the company shows up, so he buys Valyanica in Sevojn, so he buys Class, so he's very interested in the Borski mine, so he's very interested in some other jobs. Then, "Energoprojects" exhibits in London that went through jobs for all of Europe, for all of Latin America and all of Africa. The director of that facility there suddenly became the owner, though a little different, but the boss remained the same. It's the same Wolf Hamovic who's going to enter Elektroprivreda and the Oil Industry. Tell the citizens of Serbia clearly and openly that from tomorrow, that is, when this law is passed and company restructuring is carried out, Vuk Hamovic will hold the main switch and then have electricity for those who do not object to Vuk Hamovic. They'll export electricity when we need it and import it when we don't need it, just like they've done before. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all the smart states and all the smart governments retain the right for the state to run public enterprises, to have the state at their disposal. You decided to destroy the state with your departure and then the flood after you. It won't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22478	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22479	Gentlemen, the President of the Assembly has done one insinuation, his own personal fraud that doesn't work for the first time, and he's got someone who's helped him in this room. This amendment that we all got, here I am going to give the Vice President of the Assembly to read it in person. I'm undermining that we've got all the amendment to Article 9a. Read it. The president of the assembly knowingly did not want to read this amendment, which is very important and does not want to tell the public of Serbia what it is, what kind of fraud it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22480	Mr. Stevanović, I am not obliged to read what you need. You see that with the President of the Assembly. Let him read to you or you read. That's your thing, I'm absolutely not interested. The amendment is addressed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22481	When we get to the amendment, then we'll talk, we can't go over the line. I return to the amendment submitted by Mr Momir Markovic and inform the Government, representatives of the government, ministers, MPs who make up power in this assembly and the public of the Republic of Serbia, that by any chance in the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of special interest in the original text in 2000, we would be bombed by the Government today. Mr. Dinkic, you were at that traveling club that criticized everything and everything, the price policy, etc. As local self-government slows down, as the central government drills local self-government, you apologized. For some things I had an understanding because I was principled in the market economy, but the blockades, sanctions, the war, they did their part. If we had put this provision into law in 2000, we would have been bombed. There is almost no greater centralisation in Serbia than the one that is in action today. Now let's be clear, what you've done with finance in some way when it comes to public finances, a good part of these measures has been accepted. I'm not criticizing everything and I'm not criticizing everything pathologically, because on my skin I know how the state works, what pains are, what is obstruction and what is happening, and in that part you have an understanding of the SRS. Mr Markovic asked the amendment to supplement this Article 22 and thus manifested that local self-government is not so far away from the central government, because no state allows solutions, acts, measures and policies of the local government to violate what is commitment and what is government policy. The government and the National Bank of Serbia cannot watch local self-government disrupt macroeconomic stability with its policy. That's what you should say, disrupt, run some autonomous price policy, run an autonomous distribution policy, etc. In almost all countries, the central government has this supervisory and somewhat control function towards local self-government, especially when it comes to state property funds. I'm telling you this because you're leading an action to provide local self-government with property rights. You're wrong. Tear up that act. You'll make an even bigger break. What did Mr. Markovic ask for with the amendment? That in Article 22, in paragraph 4, after the word "costs by purpose", as regards seeing the dedicated spending of funds, the words "planned means of distribution of the profits of the public enterprise" should be added. A public undertaking, regardless of its activity, should normally be involved in some activity of general interest, without which unimaginable work and life in a given area is unimaginable. When a public company is said, it is likely to be quite associated with this activity. In the very notion of a public enterprise, there is much more to the expression that this company operates by means of state property. All the funds used by the public enterprise, basic, crafts, are state-owned assets. When by chance she calls, she's a state soy and it's undeniable. What's as dangerous as danger? As a danger, by bloating the costs of showing profits and later by the distribution plan and by the State's profit, it remains deprived of the funds. In this particular case local self-government appears. When I said a moment ago, I meant the origin of the funds, not the way and the level of government. What's the point? If, at the end of the year, a public company earns profits in its business and if it is a public undertaking completely in state property, all profits belong to the state. If a public company of local importance gains, the profits must belong to the local self-government and therefore the planned way of distribution may be prescribed in the founding act, that such a company should be obtained in a certain proportion of parts, so that a portion of the profits is reinvested. In what? In some new – 5% due to the successful business of public company employees. Mr. Dinkic, 5%-6% due to the successful business as a reward for workers, and that is possible. You have to know the distribution plan at first. We don't restrict you here, we help you to keep the bad guys from stealing. I have one more thing to tell you. While we are already in the field of this law, formally-legal, the SRS is a major opponent of one concept that we inherited, we all inherited it, and we, while we were in power and you came to power, that certain public enterprises were the founders of other dependent companies in their composition. Karic took over and thus organized his company. He closed the line like that, income comes from the side, and all expenses remain in the family. I don't want to tell you what's been broken by the old corporate law. There were no differences between public enterprises from the state interest and the republican level. We brought this bill for them, Mr. Dinkic, to keep you out of public business, because it was a great resistance in these companies: NIS, Elektroprivreda, "Vodoprivreda", "Serbishum" and not to tell you. No one alive could figure out how many companies there were and where the money was spinning. You have now attacked us from the position that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants centralization. I'm not attacking you to centralised, but I'm telling you, the distribution plan gets inserted into this article. If you put that in this article, then you can calmly adopt the next two amendments to the SRS, and I'll talk about them, as far as Articles 22b, 2nd and 3th are concerned. The problem we know, the problem needs to be solved, it has to be solved, we know what the dangers are. So you have 160 municipalities and no one else alive can grasp it. They run some kind of autonomous policy. In one part, we can understand them if they want to make a profit to invest in something. I want to tell you one thing. The structure and price of residential-communal services should be considered. If the economy is to have some reproductive capacity, then public enterprises of municipal importance need to have guaranteed reproductive capacity, because only then is there justification if they agree to the prices of their housing-communal services with some market developments. If the municipal public company raises prices, and for future ongoing investment or investment maintenance expects assistance from the local self-government, development project, help, then we have all robbed Bosnia. Then they essentially have an unequal distribution of profits and have illegally formed the price of their work. So I hope I've tried to bring it a little closer to you, what the SRS has been asking for with this amendment. I'm sure it's on the way to what the government wanted to do with this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22482	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22483	Thank you. Indeed, this argument is well-founded, so on behalf of the promoter, we accept the amendment submitted by MP Momir Markovic in Article 15(4) to add the words "planned way of distribution of the company's profits" after the words "cost by purpose". It was obviously a mistake in writing the law, given that the Republic public enterprises certainly need to know how to distribute profits, and why this would not be known in local and public enterprises. Thank you for this suggestion and remarks. I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22484	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment, since the committee in charge has not accepted it, and it will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. About the amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22485	Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to talk about this amendment and Article 15 until we discuss where we really are. Where we are when it comes to this law and what it basically says in the law. I ask that the chairman interrupt the session until we discuss where the amendment the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted as Article 9. We talked about it yesterday, we almost spent all day as a parliamentary group, both with Minister Dinkic and Minister Bubal. I think we've made it clear that the key thing that we've discussed here in principle is, when it comes to privatising a public enterprise, what we've been talking about here today, when it comes to the strategic activities of public enterprises, that it can't be privatised more than 49% and that the Serbian government can't sell more than 49%. That's what I was saying here in principle, when it comes to hydroelectric power plants, thermal power plants in Baja Basta, Gerdap, Kostola, etc. Of course, the government can do it under some other laws, only has to know, when it comes to the SPS, the moment you call the tender that this government no longer exists. I have to say it right now so it won't be... (From O.R.: That was it. I've seen the correction and I have it in paper, but I haven't heard the chairman say it. I want it so it doesn't turn out at the end of the session if it came in the benches, and that's what I'm talking about. So until the chairman finds that correction, I have it on the bench like you do, but I don't know if it became an integral part of Article 9, as an amendment to Article 9a, which the government delivered yesterday. Therefore, I ask the chairman to have time to devote himself to it. There may not be time to vote on the resolution sometimes, but there must be time to correct...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22486	Mr. Angelkovic, you mean the president of the assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22487	I meant, of course, the chairman's boss, we're side-by-side, me and you. I guess that's pretty clear to you, and to you and to me, we're here to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22488	Mr. Angelkovic, when I chair, I am the chairman-in-chief, so be my guest. You were thinking about the president, and you might be a side man.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22489	I love it when you believe you're in charge, so I don't think I'm in charge, so it's easier for me until I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22490	You're the side chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22491	That doesn't mean I won't, of course. To make things clear here. Our pledge was (and we did, and I thank Mr Dinkic and Mr Bubal, and we talked about it for hours yesterday) to specify the matter. We are in order to share 15% of the shares to workers, employees in public enterprises, and other 15% to other public sector citizens who did not use the second basis of the right to action. This is 30%, in that amendment it is as we have said, in that amendment it is exactly what it says and that in the present position 1 which should be attitude 2 instead of the words "the object of sale is up to 70%", what Mrs Radeta was saying (that it does not say what it should do) to stand – which performs the share of the general interest of capital to acquire actions without compensation is up to 30%. So 15% of the workers, and 15% of the other citizens who didn't use that right on another basis. When it comes to these 70%, Mrs Radeta, there is no opposition to the sale of 70% of motels, hotels, resorts and tourist organisations such as Jugopetrolturs and the like. So we're not against it, but when it comes to NIS, I was precise earlier, Ms. Jovanovic, when it comes to NIS, Đerdap, Kostolci, the refinery, the SPS is exclusive in that more than 49% of that capital cannot be sold, cannot be privatized. You say it doesn't say it in the law, it doesn't say it in this, because that law isn't even meant for that. It's written in other laws and under these other privatisation laws, DOS law. It's true that this government could use the DOS law and sell 70% of the refinery or the Gerdapa, but right away I'm saying that it would mean, if a tender for such a thing were to be called, that moment means that this government no longer has the support of the SPS. That's what I say responsibly here at the Serbian Parliament's pay phone. So that's two different things. One is what the law says about privatization of secondary sectors, secondary actions, public enterprises, and the other is what can be used by DOS privatisation law, where it could be sold in terms of strategic actions more than 51%. So I ask that this correction be first determined by the chairman, and if he can't determine it, let him interrupt the session until it's clear, so that we can understand and discuss these other amendments. We can't discuss the division of profits, when I don't know if we're discussing the distribution to 70% or 30%. I just need to know what was previously accepted and what became an integral part of the law. We think this is a good result, when it comes first of all to these 540,000 people who have signed it, but also to other people who work in education, health care, police, etc. which, on the other hand, did not exercise the right to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22492	Mr Angelkovic, the minister accepted the amendment to Article 15. Momira Markovic. And you've advertised here that no corrections have been read on Article 5, right? (Zoran Angelkovic: No, but 9a) Now we'll see, on Article 5, with the correction, the correction is read. Wait a minute, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22493	Let me get this straight. The government is 15. 9 p.m., 15:45 p.m., submitted an amendment to Article 9a. That amendment, it says ninea, and I'm reading what it says. So, when we saw that amendment, we submitted our amendment at 3:45 p.m., which the secretary says is untimely and we know it. But yesterday, the government made a correction on its amendment 9th, and that's this correction I'm reading, here it is, now I've given it to you, right in front of me. So yesterday, November 22nd, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, "the Official Messenger", and this, consolidated text, the Government submits the amendment of two, very precisely, to Article 9a, on the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of the general interest, which is submitted by Act No 05, No 011-2195/05-7 of 15 September 2005, which reads that in the present attitude 1, which should be the position 2, instead of the words "the subject of the sale is not more than 70%" should stand the words "which carry out action of general interest, capital to obtain action without compensation is up to 30%". The current position two should be attitude one. The following points should be inserted in point 3 – the shares remaining after the sale from the transfer of employees without compensation are recorded in the privatisation register. That's the other 15%. I ask you to respect this amendment, so that the mistakes that have been made by the technical omega will be removed, and signed by Vice President Miroljub Labus. Here, this amendment and then make it clear if it's an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22494	There's a word for Mrs. Radet in the Rules of Procedure, so we'll see, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr. Angelkovic chatted with me like this, I have come to the attention that the SRS has shared the opinion of the SPS, or Mr. Angelkovic, when it comes to Article 5, is it 5a, is it 9a, is it completely irrelevant, it's a technical matter, but it's a matter of essence. In this article, which we have received an amendment to Article 9a as it states here, it states that public enterprises and companies with a majority share of state capital are the most sold of 70% of the government's capital that is privatised. We in the SRS absolutely oppose this and say that 70% must be replaced by 49%. So, over 49%, there's no sale, as far as the SRS is concerned. Now comes what I was talking about when I was talking about some other amendment and I announced exactly what just happened. Let's see how in the voting day, to declare those who say they keep state property in this way, and now, as a deal has been reached, the amendment is changing, so it says that, in the present position 1, this is what I read, which should be attitude 2, which is irrelevant, instead of saying "the object of the sale is up to 70%" should stand the words "who are carrying out the work of general interest, capital to acquire actions without compensation is up to 30%". It's not a neck. It's a neck. So, to fool the public, as the SPS has agreed with representatives of the government, with Bubal and Dinkic, according to Mr. Angelkovic, he also agreed that "Djerdap", "Kostolac", NIS etc. will not be sold to some tycoons of 70%. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that it says here that the acquisition of shares without compensation will be at the most 30%, it is not disputed to anyone. I repeat, what I said this morning, what a free 30% of the EPS stock will do when Hamovic buys him 70% of the EPS. What's in it for the state, what's in it for these small shareholders, because then he'll buy their 30%. He won't. If this amendment is accepted, nothing has fundamentally changed. The government's intention remains to sell the public enterprises of strategic importance to Serbia, to sell the strategic good Serbia budget, along with a commission, and it doesn't matter how, even to sell them at some great price. These strategic goods must not be sold at a percentage greater than 49%. This change, ladies and gentlemen, I'm saying this for the public of Serbia, I'm saying this for those we spoke with yesterday, and we and all of you here are representatives of all parties, with those representing 500,000 people who expect a miracle of these 30% free actions. This means that those 30% free shares, and if they get them, they don't mean anything. This means something much more tragic, meaning Serbia's total economic destruction if this amendment passes with such a change. So it remains that the Serbian government will sell strategic enterprises, public enterprises of Serbia. And what Mr. Angelkovic says, he will not accept it if it happens, the government will no longer have support. I don't care who supports the government later or who doesn't, if they're selling EPS, NIS, Bones, Gerdap, etc. Then who cares about someone's support? Then the government will no longer ask you for your support, they will take what is enough for them, and they don't care what happens next to Serbia, with these citizens. So to clarify once again, this amendment is not a fundamental amendment. It remains the same, and remains the SRS' position not to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22496	Wait a minute, let me get this straight, along with the information I got from the service. So, first of all, in the memo Mr. Angelkovic gave me here, it's about how I got the information, the error, instead of number 9. It's supposed to be 5a instead of 9a. That's the first thing. The other thing is, let's figure out what Mr. Angelkovic was looking for. It shall be added after Article 5a, which amends the content of Article 9a. That's what it's all about. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22497	Just another brief clarification. Privatisation of public enterprises is not determined by the Law on Public Enterprises, but by the Privatisation Act. So public enterprises aren't just EPS, NIS, Serbs, etc. Public enterprises are at the moment all of these secondary companies that are isolated from large public enterprises. These are different resorts, restaurants, etc. Therefore, privatisation of any basic, any secondary activity, is regulated by the Privatisation Act. With this amendment, we are merely opening up the possibility, which did not exist in the Privatisation Act, that workers of these secondary companies, a resort in Zlatibor, JAT's hotel in Kopalnik, JAT's hotel in Slavija, will receive free action. Otherwise, these companies would be privatised, because there's no reason to privatise a social resort, not a public resort, and workers at a social resort would get free action and money, and in the state they wouldn't get anything if there wasn't this amendment. So this amendment gives up to 30% of the shares free of charge to Serbian citizens, 15% to employees, 15% to others. The subject of privatisation has been regulated by a completely different law, which we are not discussing here today, which is the Privatisation Act. That's what Mr. Angelkovic said. Each individual privatisation is subject to a special act. If the resort is to be privatised, a decision must be made to privatise a specific resort. The privatisation process of any public enterprise, the founder makes a decision, which is the Republic of Serbia, on privatisation. This law doesn't regulate itself at all, and I don't think there's any need to discuss it. Of course, it's possible to argue, but that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22498	Is anyone answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Angelkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22499	Mr. Wolfie, if you've got anything to say about the pay phone, don't come and talk to me. Whether I'm smart or not, don't be smart. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22500	Mr. Angelkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22501	You can do that in your party and in others, this is about the Assembly and I ask you to behave accordingly, as a MP and not throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22502	Mr. Angelkovic, please do not address the MPs in the benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22503	Pray for Mr. Wolf, not me. I answer the word, and Mr. Wolfie throws it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22504	You got the word and say what you wanted to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22505	Chairman, please allow us to discuss here normally. First of all, I would like to thank the president and the secretary for the clarification, because now we have a clear situation that it is a technical error, that it is not 9a, but 5a, in fact, that the essence is the same. I think we've come up with one substance that's extremely important. The SPS agreed not only with ministers in the government, but also with trade unions of public enterprises. We had a meeting last week and this amendment is absolutely in line with the signatures of 540,000 employees in public enterprises on how to share the action. Even employees in public enterprises weren't interested in only getting 15% of the shares, because they can't get, by the number of years, they can get a maximum of 7-8%, but these other 15% can get those workers and pensioners who didn't take advantage of it, and under this law they would have the right. I think it's a major improvement in this law on public enterprises, that this part of the stockholder's capital in public enterprises is provided to public enterprises employees, in the public sector, as well as others who have the right to do so. I hope that the way these actions will be distributed will be passed as soon as possible by the law here in the Assembly and it will be a very clear situation. We have responded to this article and to this law as an SPS. I didn't see any other parliamentary groups writing an amendment against that 70%. There is no such amendment in the congregation. It's the right of rhetoric to explain that you are against 70%, but that amendment that someone against 70% of the sales of these secondary activities here in the Assembly was never there. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: As soon as we do not vote for the law, that is clear. ) Mr. Krasic, will you vote against or for, you are the opposition and it is natural to vote against. I'm just saying, that amendment wasn't here. The only controversy created here around this part of the distribution of actions was in principle by the SPS today. We are pleased and grateful that we have come to a compromise solution, which is not a compromise solution in favour of the SPS, but primarily for the benefit of public sector employees and other citizens who did not use this right when it comes to granting free actions. Since we represent them, we're satisfied about that. When it comes to the possibility of selling, of course, we can always change the thesis, but very precisely I said, the SPS attitude, not my own, when it comes to basic actions. I've listed the last time and now, when it comes to hydroelectric power plants, the Bones, the refinery, etc. The SPS will in no way give support, but will be against the sale of these companies over 49%. Now you're telling us here, that's the point, why I'm calling – when it's sold out, it doesn't matter, it's sold out. He can't! There's a procedure for every sale. The government's decision has to be made first, and the tender has to be called, etc. The moment the government made that decision, before a tender was called and entered into any procedure, the government would not have any support here at the moment. That thing is completely clear. Another government, perhaps the current opposition, when it comes to power, to make such a law and privatise, but while the SPS is the one that makes up the parliamentary majority, we will certainly use our mechanism to protect that attitude. Although, when it comes to DOS law, there is a minister quite right, it opens up the possibility that even strategic actions can be privatised. Chairman, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22506	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22507	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, every MP has the right to ask for further explanations so that he may participate in the work. I'm looking very precisely, precisely for the reason that 9a is placed here in correction, and it refers to the amendments of Article 5a, or Article 5a is added. I'm asking if there's going to be a problem, did that correction become an integral part of the text of the law? I want a very precise answer, so there won't be a situation, aside from what anyone stands for. Zoran Angelkovic has made it clear what the SPS stands for and she is responsible for what she advocates, but we are interested in whether she has become an integral part of the law or not, given this technical error. Does it mean opening a debate or not? I'm not insisting, I'm just asking and I want a very precise answer. If the debate opens, we'll have a lot to say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22508	Mr. Petronivic, he could not become an integral part of the bill, as the Legislative Committee did not declare the amendment. The government is an amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has accepted the amendment, but the Legislative Committee has not spoken out and therefore cannot become an integral part of the bill. If it's not an integral part of the law, there's a debate going on and there's an assembly in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22509	There's got to be a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22510	The debate is open. I get the information again, I didn't preside, the debate is open, but no one answered the word. I didn't chair at the time. Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit, I'm not in a position to speak to Mr. Angelkovic at the same civilized and lexic level, but I am obliged to say a few things that are not true. So it's said that there are no amendments that would talk about some percentage less. There is no law, there is an SRS bill, a bill on amendments to the Privatisation Act, which we submitted in late February and early March 2004. For a year and a half, we have been waiting for you to put this on the agenda, where the SRS requires that in public enterprises and companies with the majority share of state capital, the sale rate is up to 49 per cent of the government's capital to be privatised. Since you're not ashamed to say it's not true and there are no such solutions. No, because it doesn't matter to you, because you can say anything. I'm surprised my friends from the SRS were expecting the government to fall or what? Someone didn't think there'd be any government conditions here. I'm sure, I listened to Veronica Radetta, we all knew, of course, that it would pass the budget, of course it would all go away. Where are all of these going to go to the election, "where did they go with the furry eyes" to go to the election and no one to get to 5 percent, so what do they do?- I'm sorry. And this is how they rule! And then it's our fault that we're not exactly on this article and this attitude has been submitted to the amendment, and we've passed the whole law. We passed the whole law, and for a year and a half, it wasn't on the agenda. We've passed the whole law that's not on the agenda. We submitted to them a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, popular in the people as a law on legalization. It wasn't put on the agenda. No one puts it on the agenda. We also handed over more than 900,000 signatures. I don't care if most people in the National Assembly put it on the agenda, nobody cares. Then they say there's no such suggestion. There are proposals, but the proposals in the drawer are one year and a half days away from the drawer and do not go before the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I just received a letter from a lady who signed as Vera Tomanovic from Užica, or Sevojn. I'll read you one thing from that letter, it's not related to any of the mentioned public enterprises. It is said: ''Please read this appeal in the name of minority shareholders of the Valyanica aluminum Impol Seval that, at least until a new assessment of capital is carried out, you will hear the truth about another abduction of a company that is of European importance. The company was sold by a sales contract, of course harmful to us, for 20 times the price. The price for which it was sold is $6.5 million. In Belgrade's Media Centre, we were in order to bring the state, or someone dealing with this problem, the Trade Court, the Privatisation Agency, the Public Prosecutor, the National Assembly, to pay attention to this big problem. But the media in Serbia are strictly censored. In addition to the shrewd texts of several lines in the journals, no other effect has been caused. The problem is huge. The company Impol Seval, whose majority owner is Impol, Slovenska Bistrica, with a demonstration of the finalisation line, which, you know, is a money mine in Sevojn, are planning to expand the foundry. The plan is 100,000 tons a year only overheated aluminium blocks. Serbia has poisoned the environment, and Slovenians, of course, have money. Mr. Wolfie, I'm writing this while I'm watching the assembly session broadcast. "Well then there are applications, and it is said: "We are looking for space in the media for us small shareholders who have 15% of the capital in Impol Seval. We tried to talk to members of the majority board. We were ridiculed and we were told that we were bottomless and they bought a pile of iron." This is just one example of how it works. It is true that privatisation is regulated by a special law, but it is also true that you know well that your key moves are, and that you are already discussing it, how and how NIS, how and how to privatise EPS, how to kidnap as much for yourself and the best men of the mafia as possible, and how that money can be shared, and that is the essence of the whole story. Whether to get a billion, a billion and a half or two billion, something small will come back to the state, you will load on trucks, and to the citizens of Serbia nothing of it, and some next government will support from the air. Since there will be no more of the highest income, what the state is supporting today, it will be supported by air, and pensions will be paid out of nothing. That whoever supports who, now I say, whatever it is and whatever it is, you will support yourself until the people finally say they will no longer suffer it, until the turbulence in society is so much bigger and when the people say, even because of Kosovo and Metohija, we are not ready to forgive everything else, thieving, crime, corruption and everything else, and when they say they want to change. Then when they say clearly and openly everywhere in Serbia, and what they feel today, then you will see how you will all be "cleaned" together from the political scene and then you will look at this National Assembly somewhere on the postcard and think about why you are and how you responded to radicals. We remind you and I regret that Predrag Markovic comes out, that it would be good to put these suggestions on the agenda, because then you wouldn't have had the possibility of any abuse in the privatisation process you've had so far. I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia are just waiting for such a law on the agenda, because all possible fraud we have foreseen in this law and directly opposed them. Do you know that it's possible that when you go to public auctions to a certain amount of money, it's enough to pay 50 plus one percent and never pay the rest. You've become the owner of the majority package of actions and you don't have to pay yourself any further. Fake investment contracts and other miracles, nothing applies to you from the moment you became the majority owner of 50 percent plus one. Serbian citizens should know that. That's why it's time to get in the way of these scams, and you yell at radicals and say that your radicals are guilty, but you compare yourself somewhere with radicals. Where you are less than ten times weaker than radicals, I congratulate you immediately, it is a great success for each of your parties. I think there are very few such places in Serbia but there will be none of them until the election. I think Serbian citizens are looking forward to the election and that's why they want to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22512	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. We're moving on to the next amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 16th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by the MP of the people Natasa Jovanovic, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Zankov, I really admire what dignity you have in all of this confusion, which of course you have not caused anything, you set an example for a highly moral man and, above all, of a man to express democratic abilities and potentials, as a Serbian radical, as you chair a session. This chaos that has been committed in the last half hour has become so common in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to misunderstandings with individual representatives of the government, it is really amazing how they get themselves out of this ambition in which every day they become more and more involved. The amendment submitted by counterpart Veroljub Arsic is in line with the Law on Local Self-Government, the Republic Constitution and the declarative aspirations of your individuals, even you who are the president of the municipality and you belong to the governing structure, for 15 years of "washing your brain" stories of alleged decentralisation, the independence of units of local self-government. When you look at Article 22b, i.e. the position 2 that my colleague Veroljub Arsic requests to be deleted, i.e. Article 16, existing Article 22, you will see that this is a direct attack that you will also give to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance and the Republic Government through this proposal of the law against the units of local self-government. When you look at Article 22b, i.e. the position 2 requested by your colleague Veroljub Arsic to be deleted, i.e. Article 16 of the current Article 22, you will see that this is a direct attack that you will give to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance and the Republic Government through this proposal of the law, in relation to the unit of local self-government. It is easy for you to hold various conferences, to call on permanent conferences of municipalities and cities, to have some chair them and to talk about projects for decentralisation and for economic independence of local self-government units, and then to come to the Assembly and to give these powers to Minister Dinkic, it is simply amazing. To order you to ask the presidents of municipalities from the governing structure who are MPs what they think about this, everyone will tell you in private – it's a disaster. Dinkic will destroy you, it's an abnormally detailed law there is. But when the budget law comes, as Mrs Radeta and Mr Vukic said, when all the other laws come and the one that directly affects them as executives of the government, they will all press green and say, no matter what, we will have nothing to do with radical amendments, but we will vote for the integrated text of the law that the Government has proposed. What does this member say and what Mr. Arsic tried to dispute with the amendment? It's just amazing that the unit of local self-government that needs to survive with transfer funds, which everyone has objections to, and I'm like any representative of the SRS against the care of some local patriotism, so when the law comes on funds that are directed to municipalities and cities, and you've never seen any radicals, not even any president of the municipality, say, "I'm a little bit, give me more, what you gave to Bora and Zajecara, and you didn't give Požega or what I know, Uzica. No, it's amazing. You know we're having such a discussion when it comes to these transfer funds. Because it always needs more. And every municipality and every city needs more. You have cities that are completely abandoned, especially southern Serbia, which is an undeveloped area compared to some central part or the northern part of Serbia or some Belgrade municipality. That's not what this is about. This is about the possibility that the minister, if an assessment, i.e. a programme of public enterprises whose founder is local self-government (this is the first position), i.e. the AP, as well as companies, or capital addicts, whose founding public enterprise, which the founder of a public enterprise has given consent to, is delivered to the Ministry of Trade Affairs, the Ministry of Labour, the Finance and the Ministry of Public Self-Government Affairs to monitor price and earnings developments. The second position says – if the competent authority of the local self-government units, i.e. the AP, has agreed on a programme set out in Article 1 of this article, and the programme contains elements that do not comply with the policy of projected price growth and earnings determined for that year by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister responsible for the financial affairs, or Mr Dinkic, may issue an order to suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the local self-government unit, i.e. the transfer of the corresponding part of the income tax and tax on the profits of the AP company, until the programme is harmonised with the provision of Article 22(4) of this law. Minister Dinkic himself, this morning, is the main news on all electronic media, as well as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, deny himself when it comes to the percentage of the projected inflation and what will happen to our domestic currency and with the price developments on our market. If you look, then why suffer the unit of local self-government or co-worker Gordana Pop-Lazic, or Milan Stevovic, or Mrs Maja Gojkovic, which is more incomparably capable, are smarter to project price and profit growth, i.e. the movement on the macroeconomic plan than Minister Dinkic. So they and that local self-government unit are supposed to be having a conflict with the minister because he was a bad judge. Perhaps even Veroljub Stevanovic, where we are the opposition in the town of Kragujevac, may be better off designing all these parameters and having a better picture of it for the next period than Minister Dinkic. The point is that these data, which I have repeatedly shown you here, clearly shows that the Minister, or the Republic Bureau of Statistics, is, for the most part, for all the periods behind us, falsified, or misjudged and displayed, but it's a fake of what prices are on the market. It's an unquestionable fact of what energy prices are, what is the price of gas, the price of electricity, with a 10% increase announced, I don't know where you're going anymore when the price is one kilowatt hour, I'm not talking about that highest zone, the red one, but the average price, the highest one in the environment. How can you now say that this is a real cost projection, i.e. the consumer basket in Serbia, when I told you several times and many of you were nodding your head, and my colleague Radeta calculated that for this minimal consumer basket for June 2005 in the Republic of Serbia for a four-member household can be cooked 23 meals, without meat and oil. Is that clear to you? All of this when you look at it, these prices here, it's pure forgeries. Projected inflation is a pure falsification, shown to be much smaller than the one it is. We are not in favour of units of local self-government being so boastful, and where our presidents of the municipality, where the mayor of Mrs Gojkovic, is suddenly raising municipal taxes, the prices of municipal services, but of course everything is within the framework and consistent with what is today an extremely difficult standard of the population. If the projection of the Ministry of Local Self-Government is to the detriment of the units of local self-government, which here and how can be the case, which even those in that so-called. A constant conference of municipalities and cities, in which the SRS is hardly involved, where these issues have been discussed, then it is really unclear how you can give consent to this member of the law and not accept such an intervention in the law, by counterpart Veroljub Arsic. This directly encroachs on certain autonomy, i.e. guaranteed law, both by law and by the Constitution, units of local self-government. In most cases, Minister Dinkic will react in this manner, which will suspend transfer funds and challenge projects, or a programme plan for public enterprises, which is the founder of SO. After all, here is the case of the municipality of Arangelovac, where at work is the haughtiness of an illegal assembly majority and non-response, and the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Constitutional Court of Serbia, on all the performances directed by the president of the municipality, Dr Radosav Svabic, and on the fact that in the most harsh way, the committees are being misused, and that the law is being violated when it comes to the business of these public enterprises. Neither does the budgetary inspection, which was repeatedly called by the president of the municipality of Arandjelovac, by Mr. Svabić, to come before the ministry, to see what was done, speaks enough about the fact that my colleague Arsic was right and I was right about this argument, when I told you that it was impossible to normally operate units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, and to remain this proposal of Article 16, i.e. Article 22b of this existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22514	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22515	I apologize for going back a little bit to the previous debate before this amendment, because what touches this amendment and what you just talked about, Article 5, and 9a, respectively, has common touch points. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the G17 and the DSS to find a compromise. The compromise consists of respecting the Constitution and the law. The issue of privatisation is regulated by the Privatisation Act. The Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest is a status regulation governing the status of these companies. Some elements touch on the assets of these companies, but never with the intention to define their individual provisions how to privatise one of these companies. So, what the government suggested, I'm not getting into the form of whether as an amendment, whether later as a correction, and the minister explained earlier that the wish was to allow some to come to free action. Minister, you can do this by amending the Privatisation Act, but what you want to put into this law is not allowed. We can't change anything else with this law. It's exactly the same situation with Article 22b, Section 2, where it's essentially about the transfer of funds. The transfer of funds to local self-government units is a matter regulated and governed by the Law on Local Self-Government. There is no possibility that the Law on Local Self-Government can be changed in a way that intervenes in the Law on Public Enterprises. I don't dispute what was run by the government, but it can't be in this law. If you intend to change this, change the Law of Local Self-Government. In this law, this provision is not a place, for one simple reason why this provision does not regulate the status of a public enterprise, but regulates the position of local self-government as founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reason is that local self-government has given consent to some public enterprise act. Both the agreement and the act caused some macroeconomic positions drawn up by the government of the Republic of Serbia. So here, the public enterprise is used as a cause for illegal interference and regulation of relations and the essence of local self-government. That can't be done with this law. That is why I propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, in agreement with its coalition partners and those who support them, give up the amendment that it has prescribed and subsequently amended as regards the privatisation and distribution of free actions and that the government also give up this solution given in Article 22. However, by adopting this amendment to Veroljub Arsic and the next, for which I will report, the government has no need to intervene and then correct this which is a major failure, because something that is not allowed to end around here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22516	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22517	I think it's a delicate question. I want to say right now that I have no intention of defending the proposed solution or defending the amendment, but I want to be very clear about what I want. I don't think it's a good idea for a minister to be a emperor, but it's not good for municipal emperors to be emperors either. I've got an example like that. I live in a town where Belgrade's owner is the mayor of Bogdanovic, who owns funds such as the former state of Serbia, which has a surplus in Belgrade, which increases prices and, of course, allows it to go into profits, which does not raise the quality of municipal businesses to a higher level of better and more organised work. He works in such a way as not to answer the question of what tenders are being held in Belgrade in companies, how these companies are being damaged; Ministers, correct me if not. That's a reason to be clear. It is necessary to find a solution that profits and prices cannot be in power or emperors in local self-government. Whether it's this variant or not, I don't know, but I want to be clear. One more thing, a few months with the right of public criticism are referred to the MPs of the Assembly for large salaries, and they are large, but a few months we are asking to publish wages in public enterprises, which are hiding, for which we do not know, and that is the reason. If all should subject to restrictions, public enterprises should also be subject to local self-government units. If everyone needs to take care of price increases, then local self-government units should. Of course, I'm strongly opposed to the minister being the owner of local self-government, to determine whether or not anyone can get the funds. I am strongly opposed to doing this in an inflexible way, not to consider all the legitimate needs of these companies and local self-government to increase because of the various input factors affecting the price, but I am also fiercely opposed to the development of the municipality, the development of the city. So, in that sense, I think I'm fierce against it. I did not allow them to increase profits at the expense of the price, and prices uncontrollable. As an example, I cited Belgrade, where the owner of Belgrade, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, has enormous resources without any control. I'll give you one example, and you'll judge. In view of the application of the Value Added Tax Act of 1 January 2005, I ask you to remember the figures, the public utility Belgrade Water and sewerage determined the difference between real and advance consumption for the period 2003 and 2004 and, of course, sent enormous duties, they need more money. So, due to the application of the VAT that came into force this year, here's one huge citizen recognition for 2003 and 2004, so you can judge for yourself whether anyone should get in the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22518	The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22519	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Misha expressed his views on Belgrade. However, in Article 16 adding a new Article 22b, I support the proposals made by fellow Members of Parliament asking for an erasure. I've worked in several modes or systems in these areas. This kind of centralization of government wasn't at any time. At the time of the communists, then the Communist Union, then the Socialists, were the price institutions at the meeting, district and local level, who co-operated with local self-government and saw the situation in the area of meeting the needs of citizens. That's why local self-governments were built. The proposal of Article 22b now deletes the basic mark of local self-government given by the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government. What remains of local self-government unless they are given the opportunity to develop their local systems, especially where in a few years' time the Republic funds and budgets do not finance these activities, because local self-government in certain areas does not support the composition of the current government in Serbia. It is impossible for public utility companies, whose founder is local self-government, their plans and programmes to be delivered annually to four addresses. What's the plan and programme of a local self-government plumber going to do to the Ministry of Labour and finance? Maybe about price control or monitoring the prices of the Ministry of Trade, there was once a connection. Now every ministry has some advisors and everyone doesn't like some point in the program and the program is bad, and return to local self-government. If that is not complete, the funds shall be taken away or transfer funds shall not be granted. She's not giving up anyway. Last time I said 200 million people were cut off from a municipality from which I came from the basis of a formal legal opinion on the tender. They're not local self-government underage, and neither are those companies that work there incapable of establishing their own program. The programmes are determined on the basis of the situation in the municipalities from which we come and on the basis of the possibility of citizens paying for it. It's impossible to create a cross-section. On the basis of the policy design, prices for next year are determined to increase prices. If Belgrade has 40 dinars, I don't know how many cc's of water, the company I come from only has 13 dinars per cc' of water. Now he's going into investment and you say 9% and you can't go on and who's going to pay the investment. We've got self-sufficients again, that's more impossible. If citizens agree through local self-government to settle and invest in the development of the company and the employment of capacities in new sources, what bothers the government of the Republic of Serbia. If companies there are savages and doing bad things, local self-government is setting up a director and with his consent to changes and additions will be set up and replaced. If there are such emperors, which Mr. Misha, Comrade Misha spoke of, may local self-government change those emperors or let the citizens call them off in the elections. They are there who choose, give power and take power. How can one ministry or one minister give or take power when all provisions, all positions, four positions, conflict with the Law on Local Self-Government. Let's break that law. This law cannot determine the suspension of transfer funds by local self-government due to non-compliance with the policy of the projected price. You will thus stop the development of local utility systems, and they are in poor condition, and above all where I come from. I don't think there's a city that's so developed and built a municipal local system that can function the way his plan and program are now limited. Why do you think a local self-government is incapable of defining the ability to allocate its citizens' funds? The citizens will talk about them. There is no right to any minister or ministry, not even the government has the right to assess the functioning of a local self-government. It's now trying from the middle that I come from, that we are constantly threatened by some temporary measure if we do this or what we do, or if we're not at the will of this or that ministry. If we adopt this too, every day over some local self-government will hang a sword of temporary measures. If they agree that the price of water there is so much and so much heating and so much, then some ministry doesn't like it and there's no transfer funds, the operation of local self-government stops. It is normal that temporary measures must also be introduced or the appointment of calls for such an insecure situation in most local self-government on the ground. Therefore, regardless of other attitudes, I will be and declare that Article 22b is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22520	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22521	The question arises as to what bothers the government of the Republic of Serbia and why this member has been brought in. A lot of things bother us. If the finance minister, the governor of the Central Bank, rightfully asks the Government of the Republic of Serbia to meet the annual inflation rate in Serbia, then we have the right to use all the mechanisms to bring it down to the level required of us. In other words, it says, we don't have the right to do what we predicted with this proposal. Whether local self-government and their utility companies have the right, on the one hand, to raise the price 30-40%. I'd say if it's for investment. If this really goes into investment, to improve the service to the citizens, it needs to be raised. If, as statistics show for this year, it goes to an increase in the salaries of employees working in these local utility companies, I will be against it and then it means that the municipal enterprise that increases the salary of 30-40% as a result of this, the municipality should not receive transfer funds. If there's money to raise wages 30% in municipal enterprises, and people in health care, people in education, people in the Republic government have far less salary growth. Then what are we? Are we fools? I'm telling you this seriously. If you increase the price of municipal service, it must be to invest and to make the citizens more satisfied. If it goes into wages, as it's gone both these and previous years, it's completely unwarranted. The Ministry of Trade will never ban the rise of utility prices by following market movements. We'll have a perfectly clear situation in different local environments. We're just asking to give consent to the price hike, because different local self-governments behave differently. The MP read it, they say the VAT is responsible for the adaptation of the 2003 and 2004 water prices in Belgrade. So, different excuses are used to increase the price, and when you look at the wages, suddenly the wages grow faster there, as if they were smarter workers than those who work in education, health care and other budgetary institutions. No, they're not. They're neither capable nor smarter. They raised the price, took from the citizens, raised salaries well above the average in the Republic. All of this is when you look at how much inflation in the first ten months has affected the rise of utility prices at the place, with about 4%, which is not a small percentage at all, and most of which is Belgrade. In the first month alone in January, 1.5% of inflation was the rise in the prices of some municipal services in Belgrade. Of course it has to be invested in these systems. That's why we made the Public Debt Act, so that loans can be taken by local self-government, that infrastructure projects are primarily funded, and that's why we approve guarantees for some loans. So we just want to have the exact same policy towards the republican public enterprises and local public enterprises. The 2006 Budget Law, if adopted and no amendments to that article, limited the salary growth of municipal administration employees to 9% compared to September salaries paid in October this year. We don't have any restrictions on communal systems. Community local public enterprises must also share the fate of all employees in local self-government. Whenever it turns out that a local public company wants to use price hikes for larger investments, it will always get consent. But that's why we're going to have parallel control of the movement and the number of employees, whether it's held at the same level, reduced or increased. We'll control whether those funds are used for investment or for profit payments. I say the strictest, we will not allow the citizens to take money to increase salaries for employees in local public enterprises across a level that has been established by economic policy for all employees in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22522	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic appeared, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22523	I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedures are because the way Minister Dinkic puts it, and the truth, they are not suitable for him as a minister, and it is impossible for us to listen to this. Because in these lines here, Mr Dinkic, you have heard only one example, Mr Veroljub Stevanovic has left, he is also someone who is from the ruling structure and the mayor of one of the largest cities in Serbia, even those who give you support, who cannot agree with this. So, I really don't know, and I don't want to go in, I don't care about your party's program, the group's name is G17, from the domain of local self-government, because you in many cities, the municipalities couldn't transfer the censorship and enter the municipal parliament, let alone rule and exercise power, and I don't want to get into what you stand for at all. I can speak competently and responsibly from the position of Serbian radicals, because our programme and attitude regarding local self-government has not changed in 15 years. When Minister Lalovic enters (with his jacket around his shoulder) which is also listed here in Article 22b, as Minister of Labour, what does he have to do with the public enterprise programme? Is it normal for you to step into what is law and what is the legal and constitutional right of the local self-government unit? Mr. Petronijevic is right about everything, not that crime and corruption rule in the City Assembly, where the helm is run by Bogdanovic, but rather one of the haughtiness of the unprecedented proportions. I have to give you an example. As for the municipality of Zemun – not one single dinar of such money that you say he has under his paw, has come to the municipality of Zemun. All these projects, and yesterday Mr. Vukic said, is the most important case of Knauf and other greenfield projects in Zemun, and since yesterday in Novi Sad. This is not a hypothetical question whether a president of the municipality will be boastful or not, whether he will do it, a public enterprise, or a congregation that will give consent for such a programme, is something that can be discussed, but an assessment of such work in the local self-government of such a president who is the holder of the executive government, such a congregation majority, the people are giving in the elections. Who's the finance minister? Minister Lalovic? He has no idea what's going on in some town. What he knows is what is in Arangelovac, Kragujevac, Požega, and now he will assess whether the programme is okay and put a ban on or a finance minister to say – there are no transfer funds. When you said that, Mr. Dinkic, earlier, and I guess you're a man who should have some word and some responsibility, that you and the presidents of the municipality and all those who deal with such estimates and who do so, who up to the sky the price of municipal services, which is opposed to the SRS, again I told you that every dinar that comes from citizens in municipalities and cities where we exercise power wisely invested, without your law and your guarantee of borrowing (as is the case in Kragujevac, where Stevanović is in charge of 400 million) should not be in debt to municipalities and cities and to seek guarantees from you. Let them, in line with what is their current income and what is in line with the real projection of price and profit growth, use and conduct investment projects without delay, i.e. investments such as those in these bright examples, as I mentioned in Novi Sad or Zemun or Požega municipality. Go over there for a minute. These Novosadians know that there has never been a better situation and never been a bigger project, and there has never been a bigger construction site than there is now in Novi Sad where it works extremely hard and invests in city infrastructure. If you have already said that they must bear responsibility, only citizens in the elections can tell them whether they are right or not the presidents of municipalities and those who exercise power, not the Serbian government and not the ministry. Then, nice Mr. Dinkic, you and Radovan Jelasic by this afternoon, I expect you to resign within the hour. This member says you're doing a projection, I'm finishing up, just to give him an explanation, because he's probably supposed to keep his word and be responsible for what he's saying. Radovan Jelasic said this morning, or yesterday, and it is a carousel that has been run around by state television, that he cannot be sure that inflation will remain at a rate of 9.6% in 2006, or less than 10%. You probably support the governor's position, too. If you and he can't guarantee the citizens, as you have made a terrible mistake in this year's projection, you'll step down nicely and then you'll take every other responsibility for being bad assessors and not knowing how to tell Serbian citizens based on all the parameters of what's going to happen with both domestic currency and inflation and price developments and profit growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22524	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22525	Mr. Chairman, it's a replica, because I think something needs to be made clear because different attitudes have been heard about the same question. Whoever's really following this transmission, he can really figure out that we're all right, but for nothing, there's no point in all of us being right when there's no solution. That's why I just called to explain what it was about. You see, here in this Article 22, a public company with its activities is used as a reason for the government to intervene to resolve some consequences, but not to intervene towards a public enterprise, but to local self-government. I don't argue that such solutions are possible and that there are such solutions in parallel practice, but I just want to point out, the matter of the transfer of funds is regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. If there's any need, let's change something there. It's regulated by the Budget System Act. If you think there's a need to intervene there, then we'll intervene. You've just called on the draft budget law, but I have to tell you, the draft budget law is a technical means, it shouldn't contain any provisions that go into the material solutions of other laws, now I'm taking this back again. The state has a need, you rightly said everyone was calling the government for inflation, and the governor grabbed that in Article 1. The NBS Act writes that one of the goals of NBS is stability, that this is a basic objective, and there are no instruments, i.e. instruments towards banks and the financial market. We say they jumped out of this system of public enterprises of local importance. Public enterprises of republican importance have also jumped out. Some times this is the result of objective circumstances, as was happening with the price of crude oil on the world market, and this has caused this delayed effect. When all those weights are taken, you know, if they don't come forward in the first month, they'll come forward in the second month, they'll do the leveling, etc. I don't dispute what you say public enterprises have raised, it's always been a practice. It needs to be contained somehow. I think you've chosen the wrong way. I want to talk at the level of principle. This law does not need to regulate free division of actions, you should not regulate privatisation, you should not regulate the way the government of the Republic of Serbia intervenes towards local administration when it comes to these public enterprises. The instrument that had to regulate it was a price law, but then you gave each other another concept. Anti-monopolitan law, again, you've represented some other concept. (President: Time.) ) Now all of this has been crushed in your hands, and you, at the level of principle, at the level of what needs to be contained in some regulation, have now come to the point that you are inserting into the Law on Public Enterprises provisions that must be in the Law on Local Self-Government. No one has the courage to catch this Covic's bad law, a disastrous law, a law that destroyed local self-government. That's what I'm telling you. I'm sorry, I'm going to cut the debate so much about this amendment, Mr. Mikhailovich, since this is all about a relationship, one topic. Mr. Minister, about these things you've been talking about, about privatising public enterprises, I'm going to give you an example now. You have Telecom Serbia. It is not a public company, but is being run as a stock company, although it is carrying out a measure of general interest. I think the property structure is 19% Greek, 81% Serbian government. However, there is more to be owed to the Italians. You now have a prominent public enterprise in predominantly state property. Do you know what those problems have in everyday business? They don't even have any fathers in a municipality there that recognizes the status of a state-owned company. They also have problems over some of the rights they need to exercise. I went out to say all this because these questions had to be settled at the level of principle, not "locked coke found somewhere." If we solve this in principle, this part about privatisation, in the Privatisation Act, Mr. Vukic said what we suggested, I don't want to repeat it, because it has excuses, if it's 51% state-owned, then it's a public enterprise, and if it's more than 50% in private property, then it's not a public enterprise. Is it our strategic interest to sell the Gerdap? I agree with what you've said, there's this side-by-side thing: hotels, etc. At some point, it was a method of state development. It is not necessary to condemn these public enterprises in a blancuous fashion. They were those triggers in some area. Not someone there just wanted to go "the lamb brigade" so that they could develop a hotel, etc. It was a need. There were some standards about protection at work, etc. I'm not getting into that subject. Furthermore, the Law on Local Self-Government needs to be changed. If there's anything in the Budget System Act that needs to change, that regulates the transfer of funds, give it here. This is where you chose the wrong method, the wrong law for this change. That's why all those watching the transmission say everyone's right about what they're saying, but weak 'cause we're all right. It will be retroactive again on 2003. It seems funny, but it happens. (President: Please bring the end of your exposure. There will be again these problems that we can't control, which is why we're going to regulate on each other here, just because we haven't solved it at the level of principle. Let's solve it at the level of principle. Believe me, 50% of the problems will be less. Then there won't even be a name for what's the political background of something. Minister, you can rightly be charged with these transfer funds here. Public utility companies, from municipality to municipality, look at each other, so they say as soon as those in the municipality where G17 plus in power raises the price of water and we raise the price of water. If you put in temporary measures there, then we're justified. If you don't put in temporary measures there, we'll all scream. You will again encourage something that has been done, listen to me, Mr. Minister, three years of intensive work from Budapest – how to confront the central government in some other parties, which is in opposition parties. They did it in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22526	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I've been setting a break for an hour. Resume 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22527	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. I received notice that we have a request for two replicas, a replica of Mr Markovic and Mr Jojic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward with a replica of the Prime Minister's midday presentation. The minister of this law opens Pandora's box. It's not just these four public enterprises, but it's all public enterprises that exist up to the level of local self-government and local self-government companies. Today, however, I was called by NIS employees, who voiced great concern and doubts about NIS's assessment of capital. What's this about? In addition to what is called NIS assets and which is located in parts of NIS, there are also huge assets, property of NIS, which is not locked under the gates of NIS. First, it's about parts of NIS that are abroad. I had a list of 24 or 25 parts, which is a huge fortune, because it's about wells, or the right to exploit oil in Angola, it's about parts of companies located in London, Germany, I don't know what city, in Moscow. What is most important and where the huge NIS capital lies, these are companies whose construction was part of the NIS. You know, the state has been ordering NIS, by its regulations, as always the financial strongest part of the economy, to invest certain funds, so that there are a lot of capital in other businesses. Is that accounted for? Furthermore, it is, as far as I know, a few dozen catering facilities, which hotels, motels, which are owned by either NIS or NIS companies. Has that capital been evaluated? I'm afraid, and they're afraid of the NIS employees, because it's going to severely reduce their stock value if it doesn't all go into assessment, that all of this is isolated to reduce NIS value, so it can be sold more easily. And we already see Hamovic with a picture and ID card as one of the owners of both NIS and EPS, as well as various other Hamovics could buy, because both EPS and NIS are a big bite and for such thieves as they are. They couldn't steal away for ten or fifteen years so much that they could buy quiet souls to buy NIS. That's why I'm asking, let it be a parliamentary question, to deliver me the complete material in which the NIS property will be listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22529	Thank you. I'm going to ask you to participate in the formulation during tomorrow when I'm teaching the question. Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this bill is on the agenda, it is closely linked to public utility companies throughout the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I received a letter from Zaječar, which was sent to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, the Department of Budgetary Control and Audit and the Department of Budgetary Control. This letter was sent in the form of an application for falsifying the 2005 budget, a series of controversial provisions on changes in budgetary positions, spending of the current budget reserve and the extreme irrational spending of budget funds in the Zaječar municipality. There are several signers here that have been posted, even in front of certain parties. Representatives signed in front of four or five parties. As far as the Southbanat County is concerned, and when it comes to Panchevo. Panchevo, ladies and gentlemen, is the fifth city, or fifth municipality, at the height of the budget. The budget of the municipality of Panchevo is 2,370,000,000 dinars. This should be added to 177 million, which the Republic has singled out. In addition, funds that are set aside from privatisation should be added here and left to local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Then, an ecological tax that is collected in hundreds of millions over the course of one year at the oil refinery in Pancheva, the Azotari in Pancheva and Petrochemy. It's the only city that has such an ecological tax, and the funds are extremely large. The control and movement of these funds in the Panchevo municipality for the last five years has not been carried out, whether these funds are used on purpose. Decisions have been made which specifically refer to certain investments, primarily sewage, street asphalting, gasification and other capital investment facilities. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have the knowledge that the funds from the Panchevo municipality budget are directed at some banks, but under what conditions, this is absolutely not available to us and is not known. If inflation is almost 20%, it should be acknowledged, it is in fact what it is in the current year. In next year, inflation will be no less. Does that mean, if someone put these funds into the bank, that those funds will be devalued by at least 40 percent? What does it mean that the capital investments, which were scheduled to take place this year on the territory of the municipality of Panchevo, will begin with these investments and works in April and May next year? It's a huge material damage. I ask the Ministry of Finance to send an emergency budgetary inspection to determine the right factual state and to inform the citizens of the Pancheva municipality whether these funds are directed in the direction provided for by the Budgetary System Act or not. And that's why we're asking for the public to be informed, because I'm saying again that there's nothing to see where the funds are, and there's the fifth city in the Republic. After Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, Panchevo is with the largest budget in the Republic. I can tell you, if it goes through the Republic of Serbia through cities like Kikinda and other cities, you'll see it's being built there, but I have to tell you that there's no building in Panc's. There's no investment, and there's no telling where the money is. If they are directed where they should be directed, we ask that it be determined and finally inform the citizens of Pancheva municipality after five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22531	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. At the same time, I would like to inform you, according to the Rules of Procedure, today we will be working until the hearing is over in detail on item 5. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22532	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 16. The bill, tabled by Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, requires that Article 22b be deleted. As the minister accepted the amendment to the 15th People's MP, Momir Markovic, it is perfectly logical to accept this amendment, as the amendment requires that those local companies that earn profits can be distributed in different ways, without restrictions that follow in Article 22b. It would therefore be perfectly logical, without a great explanation of this amendment, or a broad explanation of this amendment, that the minister is there to plead and accept this amendment. I think when the law in general is ready, that is to say, to amend and supplement this law, that the proposer did not have in front of him the width, i.e. the beauty of those services that all public enterprises are dealing with at the local level. In the case of the company "Borport", which is a public company in the municipality of Bor, otherwise engaged in bus transport, local and intercity, to explain that if the company is in the hands of a good director, if local self-government were to appoint a good director, it could be extremely profitable, it could make a huge profit. From that profit, of course, according to this law, one part of the profits achieved could be brought into the register of municipal self-government, and one significant part could be shared with workers on behalf of wages or other donations. Since it's such a company that's atypical about local businesses, of course it's time-consuming that I'm talking about this amendment and defending it, and that this morning in Bora, about nine hours ago, 50 workers of the "Borship" strike. They came to Bor municipality and blocked it, and the reason is next. Namely, such companies, including local companies, which provide other services, when they find themselves in the hands of people who have no good intentions towards local companies and local self-government, who at any cost wants to place some of their people in the leading places in local public enterprises, regardless of their professional qualifications, lead to such companies practically disappearing. Two or three years ago, the Statute of the Public Enterprise "Borship". This enables him to become a director and someone convicted by judicial verdicts of economic violations, a statute that has been changed on purpose. The director may also become one who does not have a high or higher professional training and who does not have the appropriate work experience. The man brought into the public enterprise over the past two and a half years has been able to completely destroy the public enterprise. In fact, more private carriers came from him. This was done by buying a bus at the junkyard, driving to the Bohrvoda workshop, and after a few days the bus (the one that was driven from the waste was fixed with the parts that were removed from the bus "Borport") would leave in a completely technical correct state. The workshop has not been paid in banks for years, as the law obliges, but some people from local self-government come at night, take a market from the cashier, wear it, and do not know where, as it is registered as a car, tourist and catering company because it has catering facilities in its bus stations. The goods for these facilities are also supplied from the restaurant, not from retail, at a much higher price. All of this local government is looking naturally benevolent. There are reports of a monitoring board, where more than 48 tons of oil have gone missing. No one's ever answered for that. More than 30 buses were cut off, aluminum lines were sold to the Jagodina Autowaste, as old iron, at multiple prices. The director of the public company (unfortunately, it is a cake cream) bought a related car transport company "Bosilegrad", a transport from Bosilegrad. After learning that the director had bought the company, a local session of the SRS parliamentary group proposed his shift. Unfortunately, most in the Bor municipality didn't want to accept his shift. I explained that it is incompatible under the Law of Conflict of Interest that it runs a public company and that it has the same kind of private property. Today in "Bortransport" invoices arrive where bus tickets to "Bosilegrad Transport" are printed, etc. There are buses coming in without payment. What happens is that the current director is practically creating a private company for himself, I'm not saying that this is a typical company that deals with the affairs of great importance for the citizens, but it was created primarily as the need of some of the former authorities of the municipality to provide regular transportation of employees to the "Rada-topic base Bor" and which later developed and got cross-city, even lines abroad. I'd like the minister, at least to be told by his associates, to refer the budget committee to the municipality of Bor, to investigate the spending of budget funds, are huge abuses there. I'd like to tell you one more thing, if this law hadn't included all the charms among the public enterprises at the local level. In most local self-government, there are public utility companies dealing with the supply of heat. If you limit such a price, or if you bring restrictions that will be controlled by a government, or by a particular ministry in increasing prices, you put city heat in a very uneven position. I'll tell you on the Bora case, where the city's heat plant of the Public Communal Company "Toplan" is located practically in the circle of the "Radar-Topion base Bor". In designing the district central heating for Bor, one significant part of the energy is intended to be used by excess energy released in the copper production process, meaning from the smelting and refining of copper, these are for those who do not know the technological processes that take place at very high temperature. Such a temperature can be used for heating and is used for heating and, of course, heating in Bor can be much cheaper than some other cities, where you have several smaller heats, which deliver heat to several buildings and therefore their service is practically much more expensive than the service of others. Because an amendment to Mr. Momir Markovic's 15th is accepted, it is inevitably forced to accept Mr. Nemanje Sarovic's amendment, under which the government, or individual ministries, should not restrict those public enterprises that can make a profit. Although this amendment does not apply, I'm just going to say something that is very important. In the Danube municipalities and municipalities on the Danube coast, there is something called the rent fund. It mainly serves infrastructure works in those parts of municipalities that are threatened by the construction of the Đerdap hydropower plant and II. I'll tell you that the budget inspection, directed by the Ministry of Finance in the Municipality of Negotin, has forbidden that from the fund of rent, which has money, the payment of funds to complete the work of the sewerage in Prahovo. It is a local community in Negotin, in which three-quarters of the work has been done mainly by contributing citizens and one part of the money from the rent fund. This quarter that remained, according to the President of the Municipality of Negotin, the Ministry of Finance, or the budgetary inspection, prohibited the transfer of the funds dedicated to the completion of the work. It is really unclear to me what this has to do with budgetary inspection whether funds from the rent fund will be transferred, which in fact does not represent the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time does not find it appropriate to send a budget inspection to the municipality of Bor, claiming that there are enormous abuses, where there are criminal charges which, unfortunately, stand with the municipal public prosecutor; it must not put them in the process even against those who are commanders for the execution of the budget. That's what we're covering up. I find it really unclear that this relationship has to do with local self-government, with completely different arches, depending on who is in the coalition and who is with whom. Therefore, this law does not cover how to prevent the destruction of a public enterprise and the abuses that occur in public enterprises, in which they can be stopped. You should accept these amendments, then I think the law would look much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22533	Anyone else on the same amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22534	Mr. President, at the beginning of this session, you informed us that we would be working today until the debate in detail in the fifth item of the agenda is practically completed. I can understand your intentions, which are, but I would like to call on Article 85 of Section 5 and Section 6 and suggest that what you have just informed us reform in line with these views that say that the president can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18.00 hours and only until the debate is over in principle, we are now in the discussion of the details, about the starting point of the agenda. We are currently on the 3rd point of the agenda. After this debate in particular, the debate will take place in detail on amendments to the law on the prevention of money laundering. When that debate is over, it's just coming to the bank's agenda. It would be really illogical and against the Rules of Procedure that if we are on amendment number two to the law on the prevention of money laundering, and someone informs us that after 18.00 hours we have to sit here and discuss amendments to the Bill on Banks, where there is probably a hundred amendments. It would be good if we agreed to this, so if in five minutes to 1800 hours we find ourselves on amendments to the 5th item of the agenda, then it's your authority from the Rules of Procedure. However, judging by how this debate is going, there is little chance that we will reach the 5th point of the agenda at that time. It wouldn't be good for you to commit us, past the Rules of Procedure, to something that we all probably feel is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22535	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. You've made a great definition of a business provision by which I, hurried to inform all MPs in due time to plan, informed that we would be working after 1800 hours. I didn't look. Of course, the point that's on the agenda, you're absolutely right, with the best conviction for responsibility, everyone will see what amendment, with the desire to do the job that's ahead of us, but certainly those points on the agenda, and I said the fifth point. Now we're finishing three, follow four, and if we finish it, as you said, then we'll move to the fifth point, and if there's no such conditions, we certainly won't, because we're only working on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you so much for your responsibilities, Mr. Krasic, and for this correction. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22536	President of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27. Just to warn you not to think of breaking the Rules of Procedure, seeing as that is your intention, even though you have given this explanation to Mr Krasic. I'm the way you ended up him, after his advertising article 85. Rules of Procedure, does the explanation give me the idea that you intend to, as people say, mess with us. Mr. President, that doesn't suit you. We're responsible people, we're doing a responsible function. You're the first among the equals, and don't engage in speculation at all, not to limit our time, not in your mind. Now you say - of course I meant it. First, how could you go out at 3:30 with any belief that it would be done by the end of the 5th point, the law on banks. The SRS parliamentary group has 160 and some amendments. By five o'clock in the morning, if we have to, we're going to fight over these amendments, but we're going to work and defend our position that the law is not good, that every member should be deleted. And that we are right when we say that the government is not doing its job, that it creates the possibility that Dinkic and his click continue to rob Serbia through the privatisation of banks, what remains, and in the way they will operate on that so-called. A new law. Secondly, when you said, I hope, you don't have to hope for anything here at all. Are you going to have some personal hopes and beliefs, it's really your private matter, and by the time we're going to do it and whether it's short or long, let us do it in the Rules of Procedure, don't have any hypotheses to deal with, wait, be patient, you're at your best years. I don't know what else to tell you, people are laughing. I'm really trying to be funny, and in the way that the Rules of Procedure prescribes it, I'll let you know that you can't manipulate it in such a way, ultimately, with the will and the working ability of the MPs, which are expressed at all times, but look at these of you here, you'll barely sit here and tell them that 164 amendments from the radical murderous arguments to listen to them by five in the morning, so you'll kill them clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22537	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I have been distracted by the MPs to thank on behalf of all who are my age, and I do so. Yeah, we're at our best years, and please don't defend our right to hope, we have the right to hope, even hope that we'll end quickly. It's my job by article 27 to manipulate or translate into Serbian to run. So, handling implies planning. Some plans come true, some don't. It is correct to plan the time of MPs to inform about the way the Assembly will work. Of course, Mr. Krasic, we've adopted, it's not a dispute. We are moving to the amendment to Article 16. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22538	Ladies and gentlemen, Articles 22, 22a and 22b of the Law on Public Enterprises and Public Power Enterprises regulates the situation of the adoption of medium- and long-term plans and the annual work programme of public enterprises and companies with public authority. There are certain restrictions on the adoption of these programmes concerning financial discipline, above all, the increase in the price of services and goods provided by these public undertakings and by government and state control towards public enterprises where local self-government authorities are founders. It is thus envisaged that the annual programmes brought by public enterprises in addition to the verification by local self-government authorities are obliged to deliver these programmes to four competent ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Labour. Public undertakings which do not adopt programmes are provided for by this law (in Article 22a), cannot increase the price of their services and products, which is generally correct, until the annual plan is adopted they must apply the price list until then. However, Article 22b provides for a situation where public undertakings whose founders are authorities of local self-government confirm the annual programme, but the finance minister has the authority to suspend in one indirect way the programme of work by suspending the transfer of funds to local self-government authorities because the programme contains an increase in the price of goods and services that will affect the country's macroeconomic opportunities. The government is scheduled here to lay down conditions for the introduction of these provisional measures to be applied by the finance minister to local self-government authorities. Public companies at the level of local self-government are mostly utility companies and are engaged in providing municipal services. Minister Dinkic here, exiting for a pay phone, once said that the restrictions, which the government introduces through the finance ministry and the suspension of funds transferred to the local self-government authorities' budget, were introduced because in total inflation, which this year was around 17%, the increase in the cost of municipal services participated with 4%. So about a quarter of this year's inflation is caused by the level of price increases in services and goods provided by public utility companies, and above all at local level. In order to reduce the inflation, the finance ministry and the government, through price and service controls provided by public enterprises, are trying to reduce inflation to a single-digit amount, according to the IMF's order. You know for a fact that IMF representatives came to Belgrade a month ago and were very unhappy with the fact that inflation in Serbia exceeded 10%. They ordered inflation for 2006 to be one-digit. In light of which the amendment is rejected, the government cites two reasons. One is strengthening, in principle, financial discipline. I will have to quote this because it is very important: "The solutions provided for in Article 22b also aim to strengthen financial discipline and responsibility for the burden of change in society to be evenly distributed to all, as well as the obligation of the unit body of local self-government, i.e. the autonomous province to actively involve and realise policies of projected price growth and profit brought at the level of the state". This is where the government, in fact, forces the authorities of local self-government and the AP to actively participate in the creation of a macroeconomic policy in charge of the government. This is inadmissible because it is not the authority of the local self-government to look after and worry about macroeconomic developments in society. It also states that they should actively participate in this, i.e. municipalities and cities should actively participate in the creation of macroeconomic policy and that they are so concerned and care for the extent of inflation in Serbia. Neither the Law on Local Self-Government nor the authorities of local self-government have the authority to influence macroeconomic opportunities in the country, nor to run macroeconomic policy, nor can they objectively do so and to influence the extent of annual inflation and inflation rates. Also, in their explanation, they say the amendment is rejected and because, among other things, it does not affect the principle of decentralisation of municipalities, cities and bodies of local self-government and the AP and does not touch the principle of decentralisation. According to Article 22b, however, it does not directly affect decentralisation, but rather, in addition to financial discipline, according to the government here, they also politically want to discipline the authorities of local self-government and the authorities of the AP. This slows down the transfer of money that the Republic transfers to the authorities of local self-government. They don't get those funds with that dynamic and the pace they're supposed to get. With these measures, the Republic is only making it more difficult for the local self-government authorities to find such a difficult position. There is a legitimate concern that the mechanism will temporarily limit the funding of local self-government authorities. There is also the possibility that political manipulation will be done and that abuses will be committed to the government's political definitions against the authorities of local self-government, whether the parties and coalitions in the government are in power and whether they are in power at a local or are opposition parties. There is a possibility of major abuse against local self-government authorities. It should also be said that the huge increase in wages and earnings, where the government is also called on, is in public enterprises compared to other branches of economy and social activity. We can analyze other forms and other actions. It's supposed to come from banks, financial organizations, agencies that God has given here, founded, they don't know their number. There are wages incomparably higher than in the economy. The government, if it wanted to control the profits in some way, should have done it comprehensively, not only in one segment relating to public enterprises. We from the SRS know that the government has been pressured by the IMF to cut the salary fund, the pension fund, and that's what the pensioners felt on their backs. Now they're trying through public enterprises to limit the salary fund and the public spending fund at all to reduce demand. By reducing demand, inflation will be affected, given that the offer is at the same level or that it may be at a lower level next year, if there is a decline in production, and as objectively as expected, given the level of the external trade deficit, we will have to, whether we want it or not, to reduce imports and increase exports. The state, if it wants to be financially disciplined by this society, it has to do so with macroeconomic policy measures, not through local self-government, and still demand from local self-government active participation in the creation of macroeconomic policy and I don't know what, which is absolutely unacceptable, because it is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, contrary to the Constitution. The constitution decedifies powers to the government and the government is the only one in charge of the conduct of macroeconomic policy, not the authorities of local self-government. As for the IMF and our relationship to our country, we are witnessing that this government has unspeakablely met all the conditions set by the IMF, so what costs to cost. There is no question at all about the price of economic reforms required by the IMF towards our country. We have an example of Slovenia which has almost been admitted into the EU and has negotiated with the IMF. A representative of the Government of Slovenia almost told the Serbian government that we should not allow ourselves the situation to accept the IMF's terms unspeakably, because it will cost us dearly. This should be taken seriously, especially since Slovenia had a much better starting position when it negotiated with the EU on EU accession. It had a much better economic position and stability in the country, yet it did not accept all the IMF recommendations, but selectively applied all the measures and recommendations proposed by the IMF, in line with its needs and capabilities and economic strength at the moment. We have a reverse situation. We have indiscriminately applied all IMF recommendations, regardless of the price, and we have witnessed almost a pension reform and a reduction in the pension fund. It'll make the pensioners feel best on their skin. So the most sensitive population of people is affected. These are people who are in the old age, who simply cannot stand up to these measures that the government is taking toward the widest layer of the population. This measure provided for in the proposal for this law is addressed to a population of more than 500,000 employees who work in public enterprises and companies with public authority and will concern them and their profits and service quality. I know that the promoter has come from the fact that public enterprises have a monopoly position in providing utility services and that, using their monopoly position, public enterprises often abuse it by unwarranted price hikes and by creating extraprofits at the expense of that. Because they just don't have any competition. It is impossible to exist in one city or in one municipality of five water lines or heat or waste disposal services, it is done by one company. On the other hand, we cannot, for the sake of social peace, allow public enterprises to determine the price of their services in order to preserve social peace. Therefore, the prices of public enterprises cannot be formed because of social peace, and that, in doing so, these prices cannot cover the basic costs that these public enterprises have. I think these amendments, where the SRS intervened, wanted to indicate that it would compromise the principle of decentralisation guaranteed by the Law on Local Self-Government, guaranteed by the Constitution and by all international acts signed by our country. On the other hand, we think that the problem of inflation and macroeconomic policy cannot be solved through amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises and Public Authorities. These are measures the government must take in the area of foreign trade, in the area of the dinar course, which is unrealistic with regard to the policy it will lead to reducing the external trade deficit. So, increased exports, decreased imports of energy, excise goods, etc. It is not appropriate for the state to bring the problem of inflation and the problem of macroeconomic functioning of the state down to the level of local self-government and, in its explanation, seek the active participation of municipalities, cities and APs in that the inflation rate is uniform in the instructions of the International Fund. We can't handle IMF instructions, we have to look at our interest. We as a state must take care of our people. To bring about such laws and measures that will be in the interest of the widest layers of citizens, not to fulfill the wishes of world powers that have no idea how many people live in Serbia and how many problems our country and economy has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22539	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PROFESSION OF THE PRANJA NOVA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Vukic, Nikola Todorovic, Igor Bečić, Branislav Rankić, Bozidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Dragan Zivkov, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Veroljub Arsic and Sreto Perić, as well as the amendment government. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative for this item of the SRS agenda - MP Veroljub Arsic. Therefore, MP Zoran Krasic has submitted an amendment proposing to replace the word "government" in Article 1st paragraph 2 with "Commission" and to replace the word "government" in the corresponding decline in all other members of the bill. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Before we move on to the debate on the amendment, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP of the Faith Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really not burning to see the character of Mladjan Dinkic in front of me, but I have to intervene again that we continue to work against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I see he took both the bag and the bag, left only "evening News" and "Politics" he was reading while we were talking about these amendments earlier. Please, Mr. President, I really don't know if this is getting funny or sad that we have to intervene every time. Learn once that a government official must be present in the O.R. when it comes to amendments. I don't really know why you're letting yourself be invited, when you know that's the way it's supposed to be, and if you can't make a deal, especially with the minister from your party, then what do we expect to be about another ministry? In addition, in accordance with Rule 86 of this Rules of Procedure, we should also address the position of the 4th member who says that the debate on certain points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session is led regardless of the number of Members present. You have never explained to us what specific points are in the established agenda when we are having a debate in the presence of a very small number of MPs. Of course, they're all individual, you're right, Krasic. So this applies to MPs of the assembly majority, given that the SRS MPs are largely present today, especially those who have amendments to that law on banks, because you threatened to work tomorrow to 12 hours straight, because Natasha said that we would work until 5 a.m. --no, Natasha, it would be tomorrow if we continued this law on banks. So, in order to be able to talk about the bill on the prevention of money laundering, it is necessary to be a minister here, because we have a lot to say to him personally when it comes to money laundering and I, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr President, demand that you stop working, to take a break, to bring the minister in, if possible, and if not, to go, to separate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22541	It is not possible to bring in the minister, as you know, also refers to the MPs, immunity. So no one's in custody. I'm kidding, I owe you a great deal of gratitude, Mrs. Radeta, although you know that the Administrative Committee, not the President, is interpreting the Rules of Procedure. And now, as you did a few months ago when you pointed great at some failures, you remember, Serbia-Montenegro, Yugoslavia, which existed in the Rules of Procedure, when you finally texted here and here, and you and I know, it is not correct to interpret, to see an incredible mistake – individual, not individual, that is, because it would mean quite different when it says – individual, but we will ask the Administrative Committee to give us an interpretation. Something that I suppose will do everyone good. I'd like the Ministry's representatives to show the bag. (The ministry representative stands up and shows the bag. ) Due to the seriousness of the work, please, since the Minister is in the Assembly, at the request of the president, I ask that he immediately enter the O.R., otherwise we will take a break. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22542	Mr. President, just in the beginning, I don't want a bag of nothing, the bag is there, the materials are there, it's not the bag. Let me explain, don't ever put MPs and ministers in the same basket and in the same rank. The apostle has the right and the duty to attend a session of the National Assembly, and the minister has only the obligation. That's the big difference. More or less, we're used to it. And somebody's gonna tell their final court about it sometime. For your information, in response to the Government's response to these amendments, if this is an act of the Government that I have received, and as regards the amendment to the law on the prevention of money laundering, I did not notice here the government's opinion on the amendment to Article 1 because this is where it starts from the 13th term. I don't have that in my report. Since I don't have it, I'm interpreting that the government doesn't accept that amendment of mine. What is the difference between the text of Article 1 proposed by the Government and the SRS amendment? It's not just about the termological difference between the word "government" and "committee". The administration is associated with the organisational form of one part of the government's body within the ministry. And the commission is more associated with a group of people who have some authority and can't be said to be a state body, a representative of the state authority. I must draw attention to you, when the Convention has been ratified that regulates the obligation of all the states that sign it, with regard to the prevention of money laundering, one commission is in mind, not the particular ingredient of one of the authorities of the state administration. We recently had a federal commission to prevent money laundering. She did work according to one humble law. When the law was passed, it was in mind, first of all, that there was a federal state at the time with its own special organization, and that today we have a state union almost without any organization. Of course, the jobs of preventing money laundering belong to Member States. It is the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. I would draw attention to what is the essence of this law and where it is best to specify what it is to prevent money laundering, it is found in Chapter III, Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Provisions from Articles 12 to 25. If you look at yourself, conditionally speaking, these jobs or jurisdiction, it can be noticed that there are almost no areas that belong eminently to the affairs of the state administration. There is monitoring, observation, consideration, apparition, etc. I need to draw your attention to another perhaps far greater deficiency. If it's a real administration, then it has to be given, by definition, some public authority, something called a administrative matter. It's not here. There's talk here, quotes shops, measurements, etc. Also, I'd like to draw attention to Article 4. The bill, where you have legal persons as an obligor, but none of those listed are even a para-state body. Rather, it could be said that the entities are free on the single Serbian market: banks, exchange offices, businesses. The whole set of legal regulations of this country obliges these entities to behave, some rules are given on dealing with goods and money. That's what binds these economic operators. If you give these economic operators these obligations which, in their essence, belong to the state as controller, the state controls, the state controls, but the bank is not the authority that controls them. He has a completely different purpose, a task and obligations. By the logic of the matter, when the bank gets a warrant from its committee, it has to be executed. By the logic of things, probably 70-80% of the bank's cases and doesn't get into the base of these other things. We have a double problem at money laundering. First, how those money that were illegally earned and that occurred, how to inject into payment traffic, wash and be legal. We have a different direction – how that money from the bill to get away, to get away, to clean up, to come to some places and to serve for crime and illegal jobs. All this control is in the jurisdiction of the state. When I say in the jurisdiction of the state, I mean the jurisdiction of the relevant state authorities. We have customs, we have the National Bank, we have tax authorities, we have police authorities, we have other inspection bodies. We're all about to prevent something, but is the way it's proposed by this law supposed to be, by prescribing certain obligations, without anyone living knowing what these specific obligations are. The state pulls out, has one administration that becomes a semi-intelligence intelligence agency that tracks something from a decent distance and alarms the competent state authorities what they need to do. I would really draw attention to the fact that, if the law is already passed, then it is clear that the obligations of the state authorities, which are the competent state authority or which are all the authorities in charge, which they are empowered to do, or what actions, which acts, which measures can take to the other side which they suspect to do money laundering, with clearly prescribed rights and obligations, rather than a flat-rate system of that 20-year-old period – we are all moral, we are all good, we all love the state, we all love legally, and the reality is completely different, not to say the opposite. They're all hiding behind some passwords, etc. This law won't stop money laundering, it won't stop the first one or the second direction of money. Can you tell which is the currency mass in illegal traffic? I'm absolutely sure that the governor of the NBS probably within half an hour, if he touches two or three buttons on a computer keyboard, he can get adequate information about how much money is out of control, out of some streams. That's no problem, team, before we had a change of bills not so long ago. It's all registered as money in circulation. If you represent this concept of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, then it is much more acceptable for these prevention jobs to be done by the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, because it can be that "mediate" among the competent state authorities, which points to some tendencies, is seeking verification. Because essentially these other competent state authorities are also taking care of legal traffic and the legal flow of money, and each of them is provided with appropriate powers to enable appropriate legal acts, which produce certain consequences, to prevent it. If the measure of an authority, act, shop, has its own weight, or sanctions, if it is not followed by a warning or an individual legal act, it makes sense. You've reduced management here to something more appropriate to the Commission's name, and in that context you probably conclude that all of our amendments regarding the commission are getting their full meaning. This is how management is formed and look at the administration's competences and compare it with some other administrations within the Ministry of Finance. You will see that all other administrations have some jurisdiction and bring some legal acts. Due to these legal acts, there is some kind of procedure and some kind of protection. You almost don't have an administrative act here, I'm saying you almost don't. Why am I building this fence and I'm saying you almost don't have one? For one simple reason you will see in the following members, there is a very foggy zone here, which should be regulated on a recommendation or at the request of the director of the administration, sublegal acts, finance minister, and then we do not have a whole vision. But the area you regulate will not be supplied originally with the affairs of the state administration and will not be originally in the domain of administrative matters. You're building a management here that's going to do some business, and these jobs aren't a administrative matter. As a result, not only termologically, but also in many other countries went to the Commission, and only in those who accepted this second concept, where there is the appropriate specific weight of acts brought by the authorities, they went to something within the framework of the state administration's body, in line with their legal-political systems. These are, as you might have noticed, the essential reasons for our disagreement. You could have applied the second concept. That convention, which is the basis for this, is quite wide, allows for different interpretations. What's he allowing for? Because states are signatories, states that belong to different legal-political systems. In some countries, simply, the constitution and the laws allow the minister of great authority to bring some acts of law, whether they are called directives, recommendations or have some other name, and then you have countries that are a little more gravitating towards the continental legal system, where all authorities come from the assembly, through the law, etc. That's why this convention has that width. It is not good in our legal-political system, which is limited, surrounded by something that looks like German and French, you are installing something that is more appropriate to the Netherlands, Belgium, and even if Slovenians have prescribed it. It is the starting point of this first amendment, probably followed by a dozen amendments that treat the same matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22543	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing to amend the name Section III above Articles 12 and 12. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22544	Article 12. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering has a title above the member – the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and says: "The Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering is educated as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of Finance Affairs. The managing director, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Minister in charge of Finance Affairs." I don't know who thought I'd want the cabbage to look after. This is simply amazing that the Ministry of Finance, or the administration within this ministry, is engaged in preventing money laundering. We in the SRS are very skeptical of this member and of this concept of law, and that is why I have proposed an amendment to Article 12. The title according to the amendment proposal should be "The Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering", so it is proposed that the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering is a state body. The Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering is an independent and independent state body. The Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering is a legal person. The headquarters of the Money Laundering Commission is in Belgrade. I have also read the Government's proposal and amendments in a completely safe way, so that you, fellow MPs and you, Mr. Minister, will compare both of them and see how unacceptable and unblessed the Government's proposal is, and how much this solution, proposed by the amendment, is indeed too much and meaningful, because to whom else this commission can and should be held accountable than the National Assembly. The government must be absolutely excluded from this job. The finance ministry and finance minister as well. Even if it were a government in which we trust, a ministry and a minister in which we trust, such a solution would be unacceptable, especially from the aspect of the SRS and our relations and opinions on the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry and the finance minister. So we think that this amendment must be accepted, even though we have a negative view of this bill at all. You just heard from Zoran Krasic with all the details why we think this law will not and cannot prevent money laundering. This is another farsi. The government of the Republic of Serbia loves to publish in the media how some laws are passed. You prefer to propose the law that was never passed here, and because there was no law, whatever occurred to anyone, and now that you've passed the law, there's no money laundering, all the problems in this area are regulated. Of course, we know what Serbian citizens also know that this has nothing to do with reality, that this law of yours is one of your own. This push to work and to work long hours and to work I don't know how many laws in one day is the consequence of your obligation to pass a certain number of laws by one date, but we Serbian radicals insist on convincing you and explain to you that what you are making laws, what you stand for, means nothing positive for the legal order, for the legal system and legal security in Serbia, but we recommend that you and we assure you that you are passing laws that really make sense, whose application is possible and whose application will truly achieve the objective of which the law is passed. I don't know how many times we've proven to you that we've been right every time we've told you the law isn't good for you, that you accept our amendment solutions. Whenever you haven't done that, we've had to waste our time here again and beg that you be present too, that we insist and all spend time on amending and supplementing the law, because you, Mr. Minister and your government, are unable to propose a good law to this assembly, no matter what area it is. So, this is not just about us writing amendments as an opposition, but as you can see, every amendment is meaningful, concrete and we are absolutely convinced that it offers a better solution than the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I must also read the government's explanation for why this amendment of mine was not accepted. Says – The government does not accept the amendment for the reason why the bill provides for the education of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I really don't understand whether they're not normal in the government or whether they think we're normal. Of course, the amendment exists because the proposal provides for administration, and we say that it should not be management, but should be a commission as an independent body, which will only correspond exclusively to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then you go on to say -- a planned management to prevent money laundering, which will play a role in the financial intelligence of the service. We get another BIA, only this one is called FOS, with a basic task to collect, process, analyze and store data collected from the debtors. As well as providing information and information on transactions and persons suspected of money laundering to the competent national authorities (legal and inspection bodies, as well as internal affairs authorities). So this part of the argument, which I have read now, speaks in favour of the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because this is also how we separate, that is, the way we have proposed, we separate the influence of the executive authority on the judicial branch of the government, on the judicial branch of the government, and what you wrote in parentheses in this explanation speaks in favour of my amendment. Furthermore, you say -- the financial intelligence of the service, which is in line with international standards, has been educated in almost all countries of the world in different positions according to basic principles of internal law. Bravo! You've again written an explanation that goes in favor of my amendment. We want this part of the law to be in line with the principles of our internal law. Yeah, that's what we've been telling you for five years, no matter how much you have an obligation and how much you accept, despite the fact that we have nothing against modernising our regulations, but my people, we have a legal system. Serbia has a legal system much older than many of these legal systems you look up to today. You just think of something that was never in Serbia. You're changing the legal system, as if Serbia had become with you. You say – in most countries in the environment, the financial intelligence services are administrative and are educated within the Ministry of Finance. This applies to Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, Albania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, etc. This is where you said Slovenia, Croatia, Albania, you almost convinced me to withdraw the amendment. If we're going to look up to them, thank you shouldn't have. Financial notifications to the Czech Republic, Poland, France, Russia, the United States, etc. have also been educated within the finance ministry of these countries. In addition, the amendment cannot be accepted, since the reasons for the proposed amendment do not state the reasons which point to the justification and justification of the solution set out in the text of the amendment. In Serbia, the people would say this is a joke in a healthy brain. I apologize to the people for using this term. You say – besides the above, because you will not accept the amendment, because there are no reasons to explain. The amendment is what's before the argument, it's the amendment, it's the essence. How the amendment is explained I really don't see how important that is. I'm explaining it now. Only in this explanation do you miss writing what is true, which is – the amendment is not accepted because it comes from the SRS parliamentary group. And that is the relationship between your ministry and your government towards these amendments to the SRS. I see the minister is surrounded by the entire ministry here. There were about half of them a while ago, there's got to be more bags, because I see that only your colleagues carry bags and bags, which is really not nice compared to your associates. Of course, it's an intended place, we don't mind, that they're there, because we know that you can't do without that kind of help, but really what you're doing these days from the Serbian Parliament is below each level. It's about the Rules of Procedure, and I don't want to talk about the Rules of Procedure this time, but I insist, Minister, that you take a look at all this stuff I said about this amendment and what I said yesterday or a few days ago. Don't have animosity to the amendment just because it comes from the SRS. Believe that we are doing business, we are doing it seriously, and that everything we propose is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, in the interest of good law. We would not tolerate amendments if we did something to you or to the Serbian government, we like you to show how much you don't know how to work, we persistently draw attention to the public to the citizens of Serbia. But since we know that this law and all the other laws that have been passed here will be applied, that it will reflect on the lives of Serbian citizens, for these reasons we are submitting amendments and asking for our amendments to be adopted. So, in order to have better laws, for Serbian citizens to have better laws, and not to have laws that you have to stand for, mostly with a bad translation, such as, among other things, this explanation where I barely fit, and this must not have been me or how you concluded, copied, and connected. You're going with Article 13(2), and then you're going with Article 13a, and then you're going with Article 12. I just thought that maybe my amendment was accepted, because it's not in this part of the unaccepted amendments, when I found, however, I was hoping for nothing, and of course, although I didn't expect it to happen that you would accept the amendment, especially with my signature.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22545	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22546	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have heard from colleagues Krasic and Radeta, the aim of the SRS is to create an entirely independent state body in order to prevent money laundering, which was and has it. It was most expressed at the beginning of the privatisation period. Today we talked a lot about it and if you are now wondering how certain tycoons (which were previously connected to the top of the state government) washed the money through the privatisation process and especially through the operation of the urban-financial construction mafia, which exists both in Kragujevac, so in Belgrade, in every city. This is an obvious method and a way for those who have acquired money illegally to legalize, and for this to this day absolutely no one has responded. What I have to potential today (at a time when perhaps more Serbian citizens may watch) is an amazing case and an incredible way of gaining, an illegal wealth, and then laundering money through private accounts by Bogoljub Karic. All these gentlemen and ladies from the Ministry of Finance and the minister himself know that I am right when I claim to be Bogoljub Karic, because the Prime Minister and the documentation that is detailed and which is available with several kilograms of printed material to all competent state authorities. How is it possible for a person like Bogoljub Karic to pour 7,000 euros daily into the private account? How is it possible for his monthly incomes to reach more than 200,000 euros, that his wife only through publishing, imagine, a Serbian cook (Milanka is the main expert on recipes and Serbian specialities), opera (it is said and therefore the law intends to prevent money laundering) over six million euros. Not to mention the daughter of this most famous Serbian tycoon and his niece or nephew, I don't know what's wrong with him, from the already famous D&D group, who, in a year's time, has issued a compact of disks from the Rollingstones and the Beatles together. The amount in that account is over 10m euros. Now something about the law. As far as Article 13 is concerned, we are absolutely right when we say and this was the only reason why the bill promoter does not understand and says that it is not in line with the text of the amendment, and it is beautifully stated in the explanation that, instead of the administration, the Commission should prevent money laundering and must be a completely independent state body responsible only to the Assembly, and not to the executive authorities, given the fact that individual ministers from the government of Vojislav Kostunica participated in money laundering. Bogoljub Karic is not a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but is obviously very close to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Albianic, if you don't have something to say about this law go back to your place, you're safer to be there. The question is, what does he have to say? As for the "Mobtel" report, he's gone until today. You owe us an answer from a few days ago, Minister. I hope you were around somewhere, when I only potentiated some of Karic's family about the way they pulled money on their private accounts. Is that true? Do you have that information? I confidently know that everyone, from prime minister to minister, to UBPOK, to interior minister. Then why are you making a farce? Why are you joking with the public of Serbia and the National Assembly? That's what you all say in congregation towers. You're saying that you're supposed to be fed up with such thieves, frauds and tycoon who have laundered the great state illegally acquired (monopolist, previously given, position) money into private accounts. We are now coming to advocate, for these very reasons and in the future, who knows what's going to happen, to set up a commission instead of an existing administration operating within the Ministry of Finance. A crucial question is raised for Minister Mladjan Dinkic. If he, as he said (when he broke into the National Bank of Yugoslavia), became governor) established the whereabouts of four billion dollars and if he traced that money that was exported from the SRJ, and if there is an open suspicion that through certain tycoons and certain phantom companies and individuals, I mean, first of all, Hamovic and Lazarevic, that money is coming back here, isn't that also money laundering? They've already bought certain banks with the same money. That's why it's important for you to adopt this law that needs to be discussed after this part of the agenda. Have you explained any of this, did you tell those who ordered you, which is their report here that I have before me, the European Union Commission in the process of stabilisation and accession, to pass one of these laws. They only find that and say that – Serbia-Montenegro should establish a framework for co-operation with the aim of preventing the use of financial systems to launder income obtained by criminal acts. Did you mention the case of Bogoljub Karic, Hamovic and Lazarevic? Of course not. Then they say -- co-operation in this area would include administrative and technical assistance aimed at establishing appropriate standards for the control of money laundering in accordance with standards adopted by the community and other international bodies, especially by the working groups on financial measures. Furthermore, they realise that money laundering is a serious problem in Serbia-Montenegro. Right, but they need to know who they're dealing with and who they want to make that deal with and who these individuals are tied to the top of the state government. So, from the rest of the Democratic Party and DOS rule, nothing has changed, although authorities have already devoted, they say, alert attention to its resolution. This is found in this work version of the European Commission for Stabilisation and Association. They say in Serbia, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financial Intelligence has been functioning since 2002. Imagine from the time of the Democratic Party's rule, this service has worked and you believe and believe that the public of Serbia believes that the prevention of money laundering has been done. He says all this is happening within the finance ministry, and it is also very important, imagine that Serbia became a full member of the Egmont Group in 2003. We are against orders like this that have arrived to you where Serbia is said to have to pass a new law on preventing money laundering in line with international standards that will give a wider authority. You've given us a list of the countries where there's a government like this that's under the control of the Ministry of Finance. We're not happy with that answer. What Mrs. Radeta says: Why didn't you specify whether such a commission exists and how it was resolved? You are constantly inviting us to these countries of secessionist, former Yugoslav republics and some in an environment that has disastrous consequences so-called. transitions. Why didn't you write about how it was solved, say, in Russia? I really ask you, ma'am, with all due respect, the first thing Mr. Nikolic says is inappropriate that, as co-workers of the ministry, you are all sitting in the first bench, because it is reserved for members of the government and secondly to throw me. Really, it's not right. Tell me, whisper what you have for the minister, and he will eventually replicate for me. What we stand for is the patent way of solving and dealing with tycoons and with all those who are in one amazing way that gave them the Jelicinian rule and the post-Communist period until Vladimir Putin's arrival to power to gain enormous wealth, to bring it out first, and then through this way, which is obviously here in application or in sight, they enter into the country. We believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (and this is the fundamental difference between you and us) through the powers that the minister gives himself and which the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives, because we are truly respectors of democratic principles and strict separation of executive, legislative and judicial authorities, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that Mr Predrag Markovic sees such a role as well, that at least in this part it can agree with this intensity, should be a certain type of supervisory over the executive rule. If all MPs are here, let's agree on the establishment of a committee set up by the Rules of Procedure, and here's a new committee on local self-government, although you're making a fuss about the post of president and vice president. We'll see what's going on and that you don't respect the reciprocity and the power that, apparently the greatest, has the SRS. So, if there is and should be agreement on such matters, why, and I am speaking to you peoples from power, run away from taking responsibility for the formation of such a commission, which will be a completely independent body, decided to react at any moment. You saw that there was no Privatisation Committee, or members of the SRS Committee, when the "Knjiz Miloša" affair began, that Mr. Vukic, Mrs. Radeta, colleague Antić and all members of the SRS Privatisation Committee were not quick to react, would have eaten the donkey wolf. Absolutely everything would have been tied up. Labus with such an orderly or healthy foot, Stimac with his intentions, "Danone" with his intentions, would push the way of privatizing "Knjiz Miloša". This is how the Assembly Privatisation Committee reacted, and then a survey committee was formed. However, to this day we have not debated or pleaded on this report, as well as on the case of abuse by this godfather, two of your friends, Hamovic and Lazarevic in an EPS affair. We believe that the Serbian Parliament and the people's MPs who have been elected and to whom the people have transferred part of their sovereignty should take care of it. So, right away to react and to inform the public through the formation of a commission like this. Like this, what we know about how management works. Don't, please, tell me, Albianic himself came out yesterday and said, "There are some of your members who allegedly didn't pass the test, so they're away from the service without telling you who you've now set up in Kragujevac as Head of Customs, a man who's been completely compromised at the place of a financial officer, or jobs he's done before, and he's also from your political party." Do not distract the public and hold (by the system you hold thieves, and all thieves around you and the whole click that will rob and steal and wash hundreds of millions of euros in the future, such as through this silence about Bogoljub Karic) tell the people how you are prepared to deal with crime and corruption. Money laundering, starting with pyramid savings through the jury money laundering, and these are really big affairs that rocked our country, which was the most talked about and what was the most opposed to the SRS. That's what our president printed the books on. We asked for committees to be formed in the Assembly of Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the then R & D. We have always gone on to examine all this through the congregation’s organs and to keep the congregation in check. Who are these people in Serbia who will have the strength and will, if they are not MPs, to deal with the problem. Then what is our role and what is the role of the National Assembly in the first place. And if there were, Mr Dinkic, a commission like this, and not the administration, make sure that every member of the commission, and it would be best if the chairman of such a commission from the SRS, went hard to deal with Bogoljub Karic and similar to him. Like this, he dares to do whatever he wants, tycoonises as he pleases, buys everything in Serbia. It is reportedly gathering material, and it is evident that it exists now on all its machinations and abuses. He's flying, not by this, you say, you didn't drive in the same way to Japan, but someone else goes abroad. When the danger passes, after two days – three days someone from the top of the state government informs him that the danger has passed, and that they must not dare, nor must you, nor must Jocic arrest him, to bring him in and no one else. The people are watching it all. He's on his own, on the other TV, brainwashing the citizens as he's nice, honest and good. The people are getting worse. Individuals get rich. Be assured that immediately after coming to power, we will do everything possible to ensure that the Assembly has such a role to play in choosing the commission and that everything is so that you and the rest of the DOS may say publicly and transparently before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22547	Thank you. Do any of the MPs from the other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a law that has a really, politically speaking, very nice name, a law on the prevention of money laundering, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia imagined and translated it into a legal proposal. Now it's been given to the Assembly for consideration with the story of how, behold, this government is fighting crime. That's no less than the finance ministry headed by Mladjan Dinkic. Probably from that folk proverb, but let's get back to the law itself. Article 13 regulates the powers of the director of the administration, as the minister designed. On a proposal from the Director of the Administration, the Minister shall regulate the internal organisation and systematization of administrative posts, which shall prescribe specific skills and skills for individual posts; he shall decide on professional education, training and training of management staff, laying down rules for the conduct of management staff. It lays down tasks that are incompatible with official duty; it regulates other issues in accordance with the law. It's all done by the minister. Why is the Minister of Finance so eager to load himself on his neck so much responsibility? Whether he wants to show that he's the only one capable of doing something like that or simply taking actions in advance so that the administration can work exclusively on his dictatorship and in cases where something needs to be hidden in the right sense. Furthermore, the minister, on a proposal from the director of the administration, prescribes a methodology for the execution of transactions by the obligor in accordance with this law, the manner and deadlines in which the obligor is obliged to notify the administration of the transaction under this law, as well as cases in which certain bonds are not obliged to manage the reporting of a cash transaction of a total amount of 15,000 euros or more in dinar equivalent. This part of the text – as well as cases where certain bonds are not obliged to report a cash transaction totaling 15,000 euros or more in dinar equivalent – means that the minister decides when something will be reported to the administration and when not. Then the minister comes out here for a pay phone and says, "You have no idea." It's for market payments, he says. It's not mandatory then. Well, that probably applies, as you said, to NIS. Who does it refer to? The EPS? To Jugopetrol? To Beopetrol? To whom? Does it refer to the Mercator? Probably on them. "Mercur" etc. Now one logical question is being asked. If certain money is drawn from this context and it is said to be cash payments, then explain to me, then let the minister come and explain to me why fiscalisation is done in Serbia. Here, for two or three years, fiscal registers have been introduced on various grounds, and various people have been forced to buy that equipment that is not so cheap, whose use is not so cheap, and now it's already working on a system that the tax administration has at all times over the fiscal cash register around, which the person achieves traffic. If you can have all that information, then why do you even mention the possibility that someone should be excluded, because in the law itself could be written, it means that they are not used, that the funds collected from the collection of cash, i.e. the market, or other legal entities, are not used, that they are not poured out, that they are collected from the collection of cash, or market, or other legal entities, and so on. Why isn't that written in law? You're looking for special circumstances. How am I supposed to trust the minister, on his word, that it'll be just these kinds of cash transactions? Trust his word? Do we have to trust someone for a word? This is the problem of the law, why the law itself does not provide under which circumstances the obligor does not report a transaction to the administration. No, it's the minister who determines it, he has the exclusive right to do it. Furthermore, this whole law can be said to have been brought in quite late, because most of the money acquired by illegal business entered legal flows during 2001 and 2002. So it's through a number of different basics, through privatisation, through the opening of various private companies abroad. We have cases that the more organised, where the larger amounts of money are at stake, do so by opening banks abroad and then certain funds are presented as investments in the Republic (otherwise, exclusively from domestic money obtained by illegal actions). Is there any element, or provision, in this law that can prevent the inflow of such money in the economy? There isn't. Here it's only about what legal, physical persons do, people who participate in money trafficking on the domestic market. Then what is the purpose of this law? The money that was illegally acquired has long been out of the country. The way he returns is through privatisation, through alleged investments, through the establishment of other legal entities, where someone is a legal person from abroad. Remember only the private company of the former minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic. When money was to be washed, it wasn't hard, they jumped to Vienna, they opened up a company there and washed the money from the Development Fund, etc. They even participated in the work done by the Republic Road Directorate. That's what it looks like when someone wants to wash the money. This law is not serious enough for so many serious people. The question is, here's the minister running away from here again, I don't know why, his bag is there, he didn't bring it, what about that famous money from Cyprus? Here, for the fourth time since this session, I ask that question, where is that money from Cyprus, where is $4.5 billion, where is that money, if it really existed, if it is where it is now. We have knowledge that he really existed. We have knowledge that no one used that money before October 5th. Then some commission left, probably this administration, members of this administration, went to Cyprus, checked out various banks, offshore companies, and now there's no money. Whether these transactions will relate to deposits from the Virgin Islands, whether they will refer to payments from various attractive destinations where they all maltene, or where all the money in the world is laundered. The question arises, or what's trying to do here is that these lowlifes who, in most cases, have made some petty smuggling in the 1990s, are now trying to legalize their business and the law will be applied to them, what about real money laundering. That's not mentioned in this law. No mention of what happened to the former SFRY foreign reserve, no mention of what happened to the gold reserves, yet it was claimed that there are no banks, you see, the great expert G17 Miroljub Labus says, so there is no place in any of the Kingdom of Serbia's gold bars, because they have no stamp on them, etc. So, too many questions, what is and how it wants to achieve this law, and in any case, the minister gives himself too much authority. It seems to me that he has a desire to exclude some of the faces that are close to him and to avoid the provisions of this law and that they, uninterruptedly, now, without the competition of others, are doing the work they've been doing so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22549	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22550	Thank you for your name and last name. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on the prevention of money laundering, as far as I understand it, is only being prepared for the sake of Bogoljub Karic. Here's the latest information. Mr. Karic, a man who ate salad in the pre-election campaign at the time, we had Kareli who ate pedal, he began to eat both those locks and chains to open up to God's companies, and he never opened them (except for the place of Karelia). In my Central Banat district in the municipality of Zitiste, the populated town of Novi Itebej, where 90% of national minorities live, these are Hungarians, Mr Bogoljub Karic today joined 100 new members of Serbia's Force Movement or the Fallen Power of Serbia. Each of them got 5,000 dinars and tomorrow they're expecting another pack. Here, gentlemen, this is the truth about Bogoljub Karic, a man who says he does not buy MPs, councilmen and voters. So, and to the people's money, where it simply shows where Bogoljub Karic came from and how he comes to future voters, given that Serbia still has the brains in it, it will take his money and vote for him certainly won't. Gentlemen, Verica Radeta says he takes 7,000 euros a day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22551	Please, without throwing away, no one thought he really gave up the money, don't, it's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22552	Gentlemen, once again, this law was created only because of the Bogoljub Karic and because he launders money in this way, which you know how and how many years ago he acquired it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22553	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22554	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 13. The draft law, the minister, on a proposal from the director of the administration, regulates the internal organisation and systematization of administrative jobs, which prescribes specific skills and skills for individual jobs. Secondly, it decides on professional education, training and training of management staff. Third, it lays down rules of conduct for management staff. Fourthly, it determines jobs that are incompatible with official duty. Fifthly, he settles other questions according to the law. The Minister, on a proposal from the director of the administration, prescribes a methodology for the execution of transactions by the obligor in accordance with this law, the manner and deadlines in which the obligor is obliged to suspend the administration in transactions under this law, as well as cases where certain bonds are not obliged by the administration to report completed transactions totalling more than 15 000 euros or more in dinar equivalent. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment that, after Article 13, Article 13a, which reads: "For the President and the members of the Commission, there cannot be elected persons who are rightly convicted of crimes in the area of abuse of official office, economy and financial business." The disadvantages of this bill are just being looked at in that the SRS believes that persons who are to enter the commission rather than the administration should be persons who are not convicted of criminal offences in the area of financial crime. It is one of the basic conditions that committee members should meet, not administrations, as proposed. This amendment would prevent the possibility of a member of the commission being elected a person who committed crimes in his professional career in the area of economic crime. That is why I propose that in the day of voting, MPs adopt this amendment, because in that case we will not have criminals in the administration, or commission, we will have honest and honest people to whom these tasks should be entrusted because they remain in the bill. There are numerous records, including criminal records, i.e. The criminal record that's being kept at the M.O.P. Therefore, these basic parameters, indicators and data should be used when selecting and placing persons on the Money Laundering Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22555	National Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22556	Dear People's MPs, this amendment of mine adds to the amendment of distinguished Mr. Moma Markovic, who proposed that instead of "government" stand "committee" and that the commission has five members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22557	Mr. Koprivica, I'm sorry, it's your amendment. They're all on Article 13. It is now Mr Jojic's amendment, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic, a proposal to add members. Well, MP Nikola Todorovic, then it's your amendment. You can explain in the context of this, but you know it's just going to be a turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22558	So, the commission as a stand-alone body should answer to the Assembly and be a completely independent state body, which does not answer to the executive authority, but to the Assembly. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the Prevention of Money Laundering, by proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13, which reads: "Members of the Commission should not be related to each other in the right line, in the slope to the fourth degree of kinship, marriage mates, relatives in the Tasbin, ultimately with the second degree of kinship, and even when the marriage ceases, the guardian, adoptor, adoptor and fosterer." Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to prevent possible abuses and family ties of members of the Commission as an independent state body. By adopting this amendment by this high house, the law would be much better. That's why I want to convince you of the correctness of this attitude and amendment, so I suggest you take it in the voting day and adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22559	Mr. Jojic's amendment? Anyway, it's about the continuous amendments, it's all about the same meaning. Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22560	However, Mr. President, our amendments are related to each other and most of the amendments of the SRS aim to improve this legislative project, if possible, to improve it. That's why it doesn't matter which amendment I'm talking about. But no better subject, no better law, especially the law on the prevention of money laundering, which was filed by this "expert group" G17 plus. It's about "experts." I believe the best experts in this area are money laundering, because this law and this name look like them. I believe they've perfected this especially for the last two years since they put all the financial flows under their control. This law shows how much jurisdiction and competence the government wants to have, and in fact it hides the Ministry of Finance and Mr Dinkic, from the proposal itself to form some intelligence financial commissions that would provide information about this law on the prevention of money laundering. I don't know how many inspections and inspection services we've had so far, starting with the financial police, the market police, the tax police, not to mention those local police. We will now pay and finance another Financial Intelligence Commission, which would surely work again under the Finance Ministry's directive. Normally to be dependent on the Ministry of Finance itself. That I do not speak of people who should be employed in these commissions, as Mr Jojic said, where it is not intended that they are not prosecuted, or that they are not being investigated for criminality, but simply can only be proposed if they are loyal or politically similar. When it comes to money laundering, our generation must have remembered time from the 1990s to today. We remembered that many people, even illiterate and those who had nothing or, as someone said, the question is whether they had cabbage salad, became Serbian tycoons, such as. Bogoljub Karic, Miskovica, Covica, there are a bunch of them. Not to mention how many of these local tycoons are at the local level, which have managed to stand by power from the 1990s to today, have the monopoly, the privileges of importing, exporting, exporting. Not to mention inflation. They have simply become rich in stealing people’s money, and today they have come into such a situation that they are almost able to conduct and manage states. Here, like Karic, who buys his electoral body, buys MPs and councilmen by paying, depending on the name, depending on who's from where, that's how much he pays. The case works, my colleague mentioned it. Personally, I've had the opportunity to hear phone calls offering money to join, start at 5,000, whether I'm not sure the euro or the dinar, depending on the person he's working on, plus some of the packages he's sharing. I remember that group of musicians Karic, who used to play and play music, and later made and forged plows, hooks and axes, and I don't know if anyone could make enormous wealth, become such a Serbian tycoon that he could buy Serbian citizens to fool Serbian citizens to vote for him. I am convinced that Serbian citizens recognize such people well. I believe they're also known to small children. I believe that with this kind of purchase of his electoral body, he will lose censorship, let alone get that percentage that the commissions or some research centres pay him for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22561	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, let's get back to the subject, this is about the money laundering law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22562	Mr. President, this is a money laundering topic, and these individual Serbian tycoons have also been created and born by money laundering. Some should, when they stand up in the morning, like Karic, cross and mention Mirjana Markovic and Mr Milosevic, not even be against them and condemn them. That's why I'm saying that from that time on, the tycoons in Serbia who buy businesses today leave workers out of work, without bread, and now they're buying an electoral body. I think that's really the real subject we need to talk about today. In the end, I mean, they had a good slogan. And one good slogan had Covic "When It Is Hard – Covic". And now Karic and Covic need to build a new slogan – "where is the money Covic, there is Karic", I believe it will go best in the people. Finally, I would like to appeal to the MPs of the National Assembly to accept Mr Jojic's amendment, as this amendment provides for an improvement of the law itself, and in particular the reference to the fact that they cannot be persons admitted to financial committees or to any institution and bodies that have had economic offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22563	Thank you. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 13a, 13b, 13v, 13g, 13d, 13d, 13d, 13d, 13e, 13g, 13z. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if what Bogoljub Karic is currently doing falls under the authority of this administration, as the minister called it, but in any case, the experience so far is that whoever buys the votes has the intention of taking, of those same ones who take the votes, ten times as much money as he has given them. So far he's taken ten times, so he plans another ten times more, so twenty times. The amendment I have submitted to Article 13, which requires the addition of new members to the bill of this law essentially changes in one part of the whole concept of this law. Namely, the Government, or the Proposer, designed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, would be the authority to control the work of the anti-money laundering administration, to determine the rules it would work on, to directly monitor and control the administration. This amendment changes the essence. The goal is not to form the administration but a commission as a completely independent body that will only correspond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to no one else. In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this amendment, which it does not accept, it says: "The financial intelligence services that, in accordance with international standards, are educated in almost all countries of the world are differently positioned in accordance with the basic principles of internal law. In the largest number of countries in the environment, financial intelligence services are of the administrative type and are educated within the finance ministry." This applies to Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, Albania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, etc. There's only one problem, and that's that the thieves who are much bigger here than they are in there, and those bigger calibers have moved here or are moving as much as they need to. There is Stanko Subotić, called Cane Frog or Mr Milan Jankovic, better known as Filip Cepter. So where they're most comfortable with the right position, they do their job. So, citizens are some of these republics, or states, as you said, but also as they are present here in all financial flows. I wonder how Montenegro solved it if it has? By what principle, although I suppose there are already Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic and how they put their paws on any body of administration that regulates this matter and are present here also through the National Savings Bank and Serbia. The amendment itself is far more precise. In one part, it defines the work of an organ to prevent money laundering. I'm surprised that at least the Ministry, if it won't accept the concept, could at least, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have submitted some amendments and correct at least one part of the text that has not been precisely processed. So, in that amendment, I asked that this commission, not the board, as the minister said, has its own statute. It is a sublegal act governing areas, internal organisation, job systematization, knowledge to take up various positions, etc. The statute should be agreed by the Serbian Parliament. I don't understand why so much mistrust, Mr. Minister, in the National Assembly? I'm sure she'll do better work and oversee this job than the Ministry of Finance, and so will you. Furthermore, it determines how many members the commission will have, saying it has five members, including the chairman of the commission. The president and members of the commission are elected and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the managing body of the Finance Affairs Assembly, which means the Committee on Finance, a working body that is also completely independent from the executive authority. The Commission shall be represented and represented by the President of the Commission, who shall manage its work. I don't see here, either, what is controversial is that this part of the amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Minister of Finance. Furthermore, the president and members of the commission are elected to a four-year term. The President and members of the Commission may be re-elected, or appointed. So, they're chosen by the National Assembly for a term of four years, and not how it keeps someone trying here to take care of their activists through various legal proposals that, when you fall out of power, they can stay in certain administration bodies for five, six, even more years, as if that's the goal, not the way one organ functions itself. Furthermore, conditions under which members of the commission can be elected, and it is said that, for the president and the members of the commission, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has a general working capacity, has a high professional capacity and adequate work experience from financial affairs, of at least seven years. In the draft law, there are no conditions under which anyone can be the alleged director of that administration. I suppose it will be someone from the ranks of the political party G17 plus, because I don't believe it because all possible financial flows are in the country, from the Ministry of Finance, the vice-president of the Government of Serbia, who is in charge of finance affairs, the president of the Securities Commission, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, all of these institutions are exclusively covered by the political party G17 plus, regardless of their high professional equipment and appropriate work experience. To make things worse, it's a work experience, mostly from other countries. There may be some criminal proceedings against the various executives you've brought here as experts. The next member foresees who cannot be elected president of the commission, so it should not be in this administration either. The minister, however, gives himself the right to do so, and he says, arranges tasks that are incompatible with official duty. The minister wonders, only his discretionary right, and here it is well said – for the president and the members of the commission cannot be elected persons who are rightly convicted of crimes in the area of abuse of official position, economy and financial business. There is no such provision in the very law for workers of the Commission to prevent money laundering. You've made some amendments, I see you haven't exactly processed that law yourself, you've seen some shortcomings, but here, I'm setting an example for you right now, at least one area to do it the right way. Furthermore, in the next article, you say - the members of the commission must not be blood relatives in the right line, in the lateral line until the fourth degree of kinship, marriage mates, relatives by taboo, ultimately with the second degree of kinship, even when the marriage stopped, the adoptive, the fosterer, the fosterer and the fosterer. It's about one thing, to be clear, that appears, which has been present in these premises for tens of years, which has quite taken hold. A pretty big financial lobby is behind it and it's pretty big money. Various abuses are possible on a variety of grounds related to both the family and the Tabinian. Under what conditions does the membership of this committee cease? Here in the administration, it's the sole right of a minister when he's going to punish someone. It is said that – the president and the member of the commission ceases to function before the term of office when they ask for it or when the Impaired Relations ceases to meet the conditions for retirement and the conditions under which members of the Commission are resolved, you could see that for the members of the board. The President and the Member of the Commission shall be relieved of their functions: 1) if they are convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of a prison of at least six months or have been convicted of a criminal offence in the area of abuse of the official position of business and of financial operations; 2) if, on the basis of the findings and opinions of the competent medical institution, they are found to have permanently lost their working ability to perform their duties; (3) if they are found to be indiscriminate and unwitting; (4) if they are found not to meet the conditions laid down by this law. It seems to me that point 2) was to be found in the Government Act, as it relates to both the previous and the present, if, on the basis of the findings of the opinion of the competent medical institution, they have permanently lost their working ability to perform their duties. The next member regulates -- the president and members of the commission resolves the Assembly, on a proposal from the Assembly's working body in charge of financial affairs. So, again, it prevents any pressure from the executive authority on the work of a commission. Not to mention that the commission's report should be delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will consider it. About these reports, the work, will have the exclusive right to do so now by the finance minister, who still, I'll take the opportunity to ask him for the fifth time, I've asked that question a few times and when he was there. Mr. Minister, what about the money you claimed was in Cyprus, which was kidnapped by Serbian citizens, who had abused before October 5th, robbed citizens, various pyramid banks, hyperinflation, etc. I think it's time you answered that question once, what about the money that was in Cyprus?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22565	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Todorovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22566	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, everyone says the money is dirty, and we don't know how to wash it. It's a joke on the side. The amendment to Article 13 as a new member of the 13a is trying to define the relationship of a person as a member of a commission who ceases to be a commission when the conditions for retirement are met or on a personal request from a person when he no longer wants to do the job. In the draft law of Article 13, the Minister shall determine, on a proposal from the Director of Administration, the Systematization of Jobs, the Directors and the members of the Administration. You can tell it's a state organ. It is unclear whether they are civil servants and officials within the meaning of the State Administration Act or civil servants. It is a kind of way of increasing this state administration. I don't know why, who follows all the money flows in the economy and business in banks. If at this stage, when someone comes to big dirty money and starts washing it in various ways, what does the police do, what does the tax administration do, what does the prosecution do, courts, various inspections? Can they prevent it from stealing that money or illegally obtaining a certain amount of money, so that there is no money laundering in some amount where the state would have a problem, so a special state body is established. The law should be regulated normally, but in the proposal in terms of these amendments, it is better to do some commission, an expert commission that will deal with certain tasks based on knowledge and experience in the area, not some directorate, some administration. In addition to all these great inspections, the police, those who are by nature things, implementing existing laws required to care about legality, I don't know how it is possible to get to a large amount of money that needs to be laundered later, without being noticed at some stage that someone stole that money, illegally acquired or got rich in some other way. I don't know if it's relevant in this story to remember something from the West. Don't ask me how I got the first million dollars, and everything else is regular, everything's fine. When it comes to investment in our economy, I would let all those who stole money from the white world make some factory in our home, invest in the economy, whether the road, the factory, some company, it's a national fortune and they can't take it. The law enforcement authorities, if they notice that the money has been obtained in an illegal manner, have it taken, in a procedure, as it is done in the economy of justice, convicted of illegal acts and responsible for illegally acquired money, in any way that it has done so. When it comes to the state administration in this context, when various committees, commissions, subcommittees, advice, I have the impression that the government is opening up a large number of jobs, so that they can arrest officials, or those who have earned for some reason, and perhaps even those who have a large pension, but give something else to do if knowledge, strength and health serve them. What would you like to sit at home and be of great use? I would like to see this government or any of the following persist in this law on civil servants, put in a good record and eventually list all state officials, with data on their internship, their qualifications, years of life, whether they're pensioners or they're in a working relationship. You would see that there are a lot of pensioners who take important positions in the administration, i.e. in various committees, councils, committees, subcommittees, boards, government institutions, I mean funds, public enterprises, and there is a lot of unemployment, a lot of young, professional and educated people, people who have an affirmative job. In that sense, I'd like to do a good review, take a look at it, make it public, and everyone with a good pension, acquired by political or state administration in any system, enjoy that pension, keep their grandchildren if they have them, and hire young people. I would make one incentive to do something better in this country, that expertise, knowledge, energy, youth contribute to better development of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22567	Here you go, Mr. Krasic. About the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22568	I'll try to change the government's position whether management or commission is needed. It all fits in with this amendment by Mr. Todorovic. Here's the thing. I don't know if you missed it or if it's the result of some intention, it's all about the amendment submitted by Mr. Vukic, which concerns Article 13(2). We asked that amendment to put an end to the word "law" and everything else to erase. Why? For one simple reason why the minister who heads the ministry responsible for finance affairs could not have the authority to sublegate all the things that are listed here. That's the central question. Furthermore, I would draw your attention to the danger of the minister prescribing a methodology for carrying out the tasks that the obligor performs in accordance with this law, which refers to Article 4 where new methodologies should be prescribed to banks, in addition to existing laws, which prescribe what they can do and how they do. In that concept they're looking to fit in a administration that might have more. Maybe there's a lot more ground to be called the Money Laundering Agency, because it's supposed to be some sort of safety information agency, and this is supposed to be a financial information agency. That's the one thing that goes in favor of this claim. The second thing, the second argument that strengthens this claim is in Chapter 3, where jurisdiction is prescribed. On condition that the maximum sanction that can take place under this bill, I'm not counting criminal provisions, it's that this administration of yours to prevent money laundering is issuing a binding order to stop a transaction. It's something that includes the preventive part of this administration's work to prevent money laundering. All after that, when it is subsequently found that money laundering has occurred, it is within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, whether the judicial authorities are aware of the possible criminal part of the money laundering provided by Article 231 of the new Criminal Code, which you have adopted here, means whether these authorities are based on their investigative, investigative actions or on the basis of the notice, the information provided by this administration to prevent money laundering. That's exactly what we potentiated an hour ago. That there are no powers that are characteristic of one administration as part of some government body. It is another very large argument that goes in favour of our concept that it is necessary to keep these transactions from Article 14 and what continues, does some commission to prevent money laundering that corresponds to our legal political system. The amendment submitted by Mr Todorovic also fits in. I have to say, I really couldn't figure out all the details, but we have this bill, according to these seals, since November 2004 and a month ago a Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia was passed. I have to tell you, there's a big difference between Article 231. A criminal law that prescribes a crime of money laundering and covers all three stages of money laundering, laying, disintegration, integration, return and what is referred to in Article 2(1) to (4), which is defined as money laundering within the meaning of this law. You will agree that the definition of money laundering under this law must fully contain all the elements of the substance of the criminal act referred to in Article 231. Criminal law which has the title – Criminal act of money laundering. That condition here is not met. If you're in the positions of what's in the Criminal Law, then you've had to intervene in some way. I don't know, since yours, Government, I haven't read the amendments, because we don't generally recognise the government's amendments after the proposed law. If the government needs to intervene, let it withdraw the law and let it give a new law. What's the worst version is that the government delivers the law, and after five, six days of amendments that it asks to change, they change their minds in three days. It is a third element, a significant element, which indicates that this concept should be accepted. Now I'd support it with one example, or there's probably more cases if it happened, but the example can be interesting. We have a situation where some of our so-called businessmen sell their founding rights, their stakes, our actions, and we get some new ones who legitimateize themselves as if they were legal followers, continuers. We have the most recent case with Karic, where he sold his share to someone, and later he saw that he had recalculated himself, so that this recalculation would bring down to a simple technical error in the appointment and name, so that only after nine years did one judge have to change his solution, which had one economic operator listed in the register at a time when the register was in a commercial court. We have a different situation here. Today, practically, it's always possible to launder money. These are fictitious invoices, fictitious accounts, and it's a good thing that you put in Article 4(2) where you mentioned entrepreneurs and natural persons, that it's possible that the car carrier made the papers as he was driving some kind of relationship, and that there was no driving for that relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22569	Please, let's get back to the amendment, at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22570	Mr. President, if you were a little patient, you'd see that this case has great significance, because directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22571	Mr. Krasic, you have all my affections, I've turned your attention, because you have one more minute, so you would return within that minute and return time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22572	I'll be done in 30 seconds, don't worry. What's this about? In some fictitious account, someone acquired the right to receive funds on their jury account. He basically, based on that job, had no expenses. He's reportedly incomed. In the next phase of this money, it can be said that they are washed, for the simple reason that the invoice on which this one tour reads is far below this amount that is subject to some information processing and recording. If it breaks down to a dozen small invoices, then it's impossible to catch. In doing so, it must be said that this law prescribes more conditionally some liability of banks and legal entities than it stresses the obligation in the existing system of competent state authorities. If this comes down to some new institution, who will guarantee us that this new institution will enforce the law properly. We, in essence, always have the most problems, precisely because weak law enforcement is bad law enforcement, and why not say abuse of powers that are required to apply the law. When you put all this as a cause in this concept that's prescribed here, you inevitably come to the conclusion that we're going to have an administration to prevent money laundering and when someone calls you to launder money, then the government says, we have management and probably she hasn't been doing her job right. We have gained so much experience with you in these two years that we absolutely know that everything that you propose and defend in charity here, in practice, goes to its opposite. Don't get too angry when we tell you, this is essentially not going to be a money laundering management, this is going to be a legalization office.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22573	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Would any other group MPs like to talk about an amendment that regulates that the term of office ends before the term of office when requested by a member of the commission or for the purpose of fulfilling an age pension? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Bozidar Koprivica has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Becic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Excuse me, Mr. Arsic, we've just found out that the professional service according to that member of the Rules of Procedure has confused both Mr. Arsic and I, I'm sorry, to make it clear to everyone, the member who changes things in general, as Mr. Arsic has just now been, so he goes first for consideration, and only then they individually. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22574	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill itself states, in Article 12(2), the management of the director, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the finance minister. The SRS concept is contrary to the provisions of Articles 12 and 13 of the law on the prevention of money laundering. According to the SRS concept, there will be no administration, but a commission that will have five members. The amendment, which MP Igor Becic tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, says -- the president and members of the commission are resolved by the Assembly, and on a proposal from the assembly working body responsible for financial affairs. So, the goal is that one such serious matter is not only concerned with the government of the Republic of Serbia, as an executive authority, but is done by a completely independent body to be appointed and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs. What's the goal of a concept like this? The goal is certainly to ensure independence in the work of a commission like this. It cannot be complete, because it will always depend on the will of the ruling majority. Therefore, for every appointment and possible resolution here in the Serbian Parliament to hold debate on the matter, to criticise the proposed solution, and to bring out the views of parliamentary groups, and in the extreme case, to meet the citizens of Serbia, whom some and some ruling majority are proposing for members of such a commission. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister, under the bill, are certainly not able to prevent, not completely, but are not at all able to prevent any more serious money laundering, as the government boasts. Except, this is the kind of law we make for political marketing. If this were to be stated by the National Assembly, it is certain that candidates themselves who would apply for members of the Commission and the chairman of the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering would think carefully about their past, whether it is criminal or not, because in the event that it is criminal, they will certainly be struck by the MPs. With the proposed solution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is the sole discretionary right of the minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the affairs of finance, of course, Mladjan Dinkic. He'll handle it, work behind closed doors, behind the eyes of the public. People close to him will enforce the laws. We know that there are many people close to him, such as Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, Stanko Subotić, Filip Cepter, and that I do not count any further. I'll take another chance to ask the Minister a question, here's the sixth time, what about the money from Cyprus, Mr. Minister, you went there, you were looking for something. Some of your former coalition partners claim you found that money, and some of the current ones, you weren't in the coalition, claimed you found that money and ended up on some exotic islands where there were no tsunamis. So if you have any information, go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, go to the public of the Republic of Serbia and tell me what's going on with that money. If he's not here, don't accuse an ex-government of stealing from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22575	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here you go, Minister Dinkic. Then we'll give a little break of 10 minutes, and we'll continue, if you agree, a short one break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22576	Here, you say six times you ask that question. So, as I wrote in my book "Economics of Destruction", huge money was taken out of the country in the 1990s during the previous regime. I wonder why you who were in power at the end of the 1990s didn't investigate, and now you pretend to be interested in what happened to the money. While the money was out, you were either silent or watching. Of course I was interested, since I wrote about it, to personally search what happened with that money. We found that money was coming out of several countries in Serbia, on different grounds. One part of the money was put directly into the cash by the Customs Administration in its sacks and special flights to Cyprus, and another part of the money went through the Belgrade Bank, which was then led by Mrs Borka Vukic. What then happened to the money accumulated in Cyprus? One part was used to finance the economy under sanctions, and that part wasn't interesting for those of us who investigated it, for the simple reason that we realized it was a way to bridge international sanctions. Unfortunately, it was a small part of the money that was exported from Serbia. The rest of the money has been transferred to 52 countries in the world. We have precisely traced and listed what these countries are, in 52 countries the refunded money that has been deposited on the accounts of several banks in Cyprus. It is quite clear that at that time when we were investigating, it was 2001, nor was there a body within the Serbian government that would be involved in studying these illegal transactions, nor was there then a political will to form such a body, for the simple reason that it would require a lot of experts to do so. Secondly, and most importantly, even if such a body was then formed, and the formation of that body was not in the hands of the National Bank of Serbia, whose head I was at, but exclusively of the Government, even if it was formed, it is impossible for one country to follow that money further if it was retransfered to accounts in 52 countries in the world. The only way was to seek international legal aid. She's wanted. So the investigation into this money was literally, and by the number and letters, only four people in the country. International legal aid has been requested. Data was at the very beginning, until 9/11, when the bombing of New York, Al-Qaeda, took place when she committed a terrorist attack. After that, literally, the Americans devoted themselves to Al-Qaeda, raised their hands from Milosevic's couples, and we simply didn't have technical assistance to continue the investigation. All the financial investigators of The Hague tribunal, one gentleman, seems to me to have made public from Norway about the funds carried out to Cyprus, retransfered from which accounts, it is not him himself, it is literally a finding made by our police. So we have come up with initial clues and about the amounts of funds that have been transferred. And also to the amount that has been repatriated, and to which countries it has gone. Definitely, find this money – and there is a high probability, as money is moving very quickly from account to account, that it is later retransfered to some additional countries – was not possible without the great help of the international community. The two key institutions in the international community are to help discover illegally exported money from Serbia, one is OFAK, it is the US Capital Movement Control Bureau and the European Union has one bureau dealing with these transactions. We had co-operation with each other until September 11, 2002. So they then dedicated themselves to Al-Qaeda and raised their hands from Milosevic's transactions, when virtually stopped any investigation related to it. At one point we traced a single account of 350 million German marks to a single company in Cyprus. According to our knowledge, there was money in that account back then. We have sent a request to The Hague to freeze this money immediately. The Hague tribunal first confirmed in a letter that there are 350 million in that account, that it would later deny itself after seven days and said that this money actually exists, but that it does not belong to Milosevic, or to transactions related to Milosevic, but to another person from these territories. All in all, they never ultimately helped us get that money. It's just, when you have a country as small as Serbia, there's no way to find some things, unless you have an extremely developed co-operation. Three years passed after this September 11th, 2002, and simply lost interest in a further search. At this age, I won't say for a decade, I'd have to deal with an organized team that counted dozens of people. So the answer is – the money has been transferred to Cyprus, the money is from Cyprus, so it's transferred to 52 countries. No money has ever been found, so that the public has not been informed, because who would be happier than me, who I wrote about during those years when that money was delivered, that at least some of it was returned. Unfortunately, I don't think anything is ever official, or that it will not be returned, except for the obvious part of the money that is entirely likely to be returned through different privatisations. It's impossible to determine, that direct link between the 90s and the possible return. We can only assume that. As for the debate on whether Serbia needs a commission to prevent money laundering within the finance ministry or two ministries, the Serbian Parliament would control them. There are three systems in the world that organize this guy's financial intelligence services. First, it is an administrative organisation, then within the framework of courts and prosecutors and the third within the framework of the police. For example, of the 25 members of the European Union, 11 countries have specialised financial intelligence services dealing with money laundering detection and prevention activities, and most of the European Union countries have specialised institutions, 11 countries within their finance ministries. There are rare cases that there are commissions outside, any police, either the finance ministry, as proposed by the SRS. So, the SRS proposal is possible, but only Montenegro has such experience, which I would not have sworn is the best example of detecting money laundering, and Romania. By contrast, countries such as France, the US, Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Slovenia, have commissions to prevent money laundering within the finance ministry. These commissions are independent in their work. This is also given in our law, they only periodically submit statistical reports to the finance minister, and they are solely responsible, when they find some irregularities they file criminal charges with the authorities and communicate most with the police. None of the employees of the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which still exists today, is a member, as far as I know, of any party and certainly not a member of the G17 Plus. I can guarantee that no one is a member of G17 plus, including executives, because it's a professional body. I must say, we inherited the composition of this commission from the previous period. Unfortunately, however, of all the criminal charges that so far have been filed by the Commission to prevent money laundering against the perpetrators, that is, on all these suspicions that criminal offences have been committed, 17 criminal charges have been filed, 11 requests have been filed for the conduct of the investigation, five indictments have been filed, but no convictions have been reached at this point. We expect that, following the adoption of this law, the effectiveness of the other authorities and that on the basis of our applications, we will finally receive the first sentence of prison in Serbia for money laundering. The threatened prison sentence for this crime is from six months to ten years in prison. Why do I think we're gonna have cases like this soon? I'm making an analogy between the Commission to prevent money laundering and other important administrations, which is the tax administration. By this year, there was not a single sentence to avoid paying taxes to an unconditional prison sentence. By contrast, for the first time during this year, three judicial criminal convictions on prison terms were brought. It's 17 months tops, and it was at least two months. So three convictions were two, three and 17 months. For the first time anyone who doesn't pay taxes and commits a serious offense has gone to jail. This is the first time in 2005, since the tax administration in Serbia, that courts have brought, on the basis of criminal charges by the tax administration, unconditional prison sentences for three cases. Otherwise, from January to October, the tax administration filed criminal charges against 1241 people with competent prosecutors, with a total of about seven billion dinars. These individuals were seized temporarily worth 110m dinars, until the trial was completed. Given that courts have begun to judge and punish prison sentences for tax evasion, there is certainly a time for courts in Serbia to judge in cases concerning the prevention of money laundering. This law was not designed by the finance minister, but by experts from the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, who are high professionals, non-party persons, and the whole law is based on four conventions: the EU Convention; the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Search, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime; then, on recommendations from a special specialised institution in the EU responsible for the area of money laundering, as well as on EU global directives. This solution that we offer in the law is mostly implemented in the laws of the world. It is possible what the SRS proposes to be and a particularly isolated commission outside the finance ministry. However, in Europe, as far as I know, on the basis of the information I received in the competent service, only Montenegro and Romania have this solution proposed by the SRS. I don't want to underestimate either Montenegro or Romania, but I do want to look up to either French Finance Minister, American, therefore, to those countries that have applied a solution that gives far better results. As for the questions and the findings, "we wouldn't have allowed Karic if we were on the committee," etc. Gentlemen, it's best for the committee to have professionals, non-partisan personalities. It's the only guarantee that Karic and the karics don't let them get rich. By the way, I know some of them had a chance over the years when he got rich to stop him from doing it, so they didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22577	According to Article 98, as announced, five minutes break and we proceed immediately. Thank you. [[After break – 18:30]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22579	First, it's a good thing you took a break to calm down after this presentation by Minister Dinkic. Simply put, like most colleagues, I was upset when he declared that Al-Qaeda was guilty of not revealing all these major affairs related to Cyprus. God forbid I think Hitler's alive, he might even call Hitler, but I'm not going that far. Mr. Dinkic, I don't understand why it's hard for you to go public and tell the truth about Cyprus at last. It was during your election campaign, when you belonged to a single conglomerate called DOS, either one of the pre-election promises, whether you wanted it or not, that gave you a significant number of votes and favours for Serbian citizens. Citizens believed that in the story of money laundering through Cypriot banks, you would still be able to prevent that part of the crime that took place in Serbia. What happened? What happened was that you worked intensively on it, not that you couldn't trace it, but that there was no crime as much as you claimed. Now you're telling the story that the transfers that were made through Cyprus or through the transfer of funds could not be determined because you have no reliable leads. That, Mr. Dinkic, is not like you, the man who graduated from economic college, and it is understood that you have the basic knowledge from the economy – there is no transaction, there is no literally money transfer, there is no transaction and there is no clue. There must be a clue, but as governor of the National Bank, you've been riding on that subject for a long time, and then when you saw that you'd survive the consequences of what you promised and what you've been telling the public, you gave up in time and you let go of other colleagues, such as the minister of justice, such as the minister of capital investment, and you temporarily withdrew from the whole affair. After all, that is how it is confirmed by the latest affairs that have shaken Serbia, and thanks to you, Mr Dinkic. In an affair related to Mile Dragic, you were a man who came out with such solid documents and evidence that even the public of Serbia convinced that they were huge embezzlements, that they were illegal actions and that you guarantee both your authority and your function that someone would have to go to jail. What's with the whole affair and the whole story? Nothing. Turns out there's nothing out of that affair. We were even on the Committee on Defence and Security, when you were unequivocally, it was clear to you, we received the support of all MPs to bring to the end the investigative actions aimed at detecting an affair related to the purchase of equipment for Serbia-Montenegro's Army. That's when, with the number, the total amount you were talking about, you said it was a robbery of the century. That's your word. We were confident and sure and for this reason we gave you support, but apparently that little reserve we Serbian radicals showed back then on the Committee proved to be correct. Wherever you went media to expose and expose crime, it always ended in the same or similar way. In this case, about Cyprus, it was for political and party affirmation of both you and the then NGO, which was called the Institute of G17, and later turned into a political party. In the "Mile Dragic" affair, you had an internal conflict, and this internal conflict was obviously aimed at eliminating your party opponents. Now that you have no further arguments, when Serbian radicals ask you from this pay phone, you as minister, in this case as a representative of the legislator of this law, resort again to cheap, low tricks and blows. You say what the SRS suggests, when it comes to fighting money laundering, you ironically state that it is only in two republics, in Montenegro and Romania, and on the basis of your marketing and political experience, for the second time you say you have nothing against Montenegro and Romania, and you further confirm that the SRS proposal on the independence and objectivity of this commission, where we predict it to be five members, is absolutely correct. We aim to prevent capital laundering, but we are not meant to have direct influence by an executive body of government called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not for reasons not applied in Europe, as you say in most countries, as your expert associates inform you. As a man who's also a master of economic science, I guess you have time to track what's going on, what are the changes and what are the control systems. Mr. Minister, you should know that our reserve is primarily because many government members in the past have been involved in the affairs that essentially have in them this is why this commission is being formed and this is why this law is being passed, which is money laundering. The biggest money laundering is at the National Savings. That's the best example. Whether you are personally involved or not, it should be determined by some other authorities, which are, by law and by the Constitution of this country, predetermined to establish. But there are all indications that you contributed to making a big money laundering. How you end up -- like in those American movies. In the end, it all turns into real estate, real estate is sold, in this case it's not yours, unlike mob circles, but state. State property and real estate are sold as a business space and the story ends with money circulating, money being washed, business space being sold, and that's where the story ends. Who's to blame? Nobody. But you can also get rid of it as a minister, but you cannot get rid of one thing – as governor of the NBJ you bear the greatest responsibility for everything that happened when it comes to finance and financial resources in the period after the Friday revolution. You're personally held accountable, Mr. Minister. Therefore, Serbia will never forget that for you, because with long pipes, with friends who had socks on their heads and not on their feet, you broke into the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22580	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22581	For years, I've been listening to this story, since I was governor of the National Bank -- that with a sock, with hackers and automatic weapons, I have hacked into the National Bank and carried out 580 kilos of pure gold, the finest possible. Of course, that's as true as what you said was my best friend Bogoljub Karic, which I denied. Two days ago he told me that actually Tomislav Nikolic is my best friend. Ask yourself, what was Tomislav Nikolic doing next to me then, when I was walking in with my socks into the People's Bank, did he happen to have some stocking on his head, and he went into the same People's Bank with me, and I saw how many kilos of gold I took out, and how many kilos of gold he took out. I, my best friend Tomislav Nikolic, do not know that the MP, Mr. Vukic, is not offended, my great friend Milo Djukanovic, all of our great friends, therefore, so much about socks, heklers. I once said, unfortunately, I've never used an automatic weapon, except at gunpoint in the army, even though I owed a handthrower, so I didn't have a gun in the army, but a handthrower. But when he broke into the People's Bank, with a sock, I didn't have a handthrower, but as you said, heclers. It's just amazing how nobody saw me carry so many pounds of gold out of the People's Bank and so many weapons into it. My friend Tom Nikolic was there, right next to me, I'm surprised he didn't take pictures of me at the time, because when he goes, he always carries a camera with him. I'm talking just like you gentlemen are talking. I want to make fun of all the things you've been saying about me for years, because I just don't know who normal can believe those things. That way I'll always answer to you, because there's no way. You can't answer that story with a reasonable answer. I can say, for example, Verica Radeta is not reading the law, as it seems, but these are secret writings that say what Tomislav Nikolic was actually doing with this man Milet Dragic in Cuba, when they were at sea this summer, unlike the citizens of Serbia, who spent their last dinar to bathe in a laurel, as you like to say. So that's all the stories and the way you talk. If you want to talk seriously, there is a big difference between bringing money to Cyprus and that case and trying to abuse the military for the purchase of equipment from Mile Dragic. Unlike bringing money to Cyprus, which I could neither prevent nor influence, because in the years when it happened, it was the 1990s, I worked at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. The only thing that's true is that I tried. I was one of the few people who tried to find that money in this country. But instead of money, I found only traces of money, which means the account numbers on which it was paid and the account numbers on which it was paid, but it was 52 countries in the world. Without international legal assistance, it was impossible to trace the money further. One part of the money, I said it openly, was also used to finance some social firms, to bridge sanctions during the 1990s isolation period. But one piece ended up in an unknown direction in 52 countries. Will anyone ever find out? I don't know. I express my suspicion and my personal disappointment that I failed to do so. If you're saying I couldn't find that money, I couldn't, and I admit it. I'm sorry about that. I wish anyone could ever do that. I think, given the time flow, given the speed of possible moving money, that this will never happen. The only thing left is recorded, not only in the archives of our police, but also in the archives of some international institutions, exactly which companies they were in and in which countries the money was further retransfered. It all happened at the end of the '90s, and the findings were given in the year 2002. After that, no one was seriously investigating what happened next. So I couldn't stop it from being worn out at the time, nor could I have affected it. I tried to find it. I've given some competent institutions some clues. In the end, there was nothing that could be done because we did not receive adequate international assistance. On the other hand, there is a huge difference in the case of attempted misuse of money from the state budget in the purchase of this military equipment. I did there to prevent the robbery, which could have been 80m euros, because the contract concluded by Minister Davinic, or not even signed by him, but by unauthorized persons from the Ministry of Defence, some lower military officers, 176m euros was the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of huge quantities of vests and other military equipment, and 300m was the conclusion of the Council of Ministers to obtain the equipment within five years. So these aren't the documents I invented, these are the documents that we as a government found, put right in the public eye and hitched off. We stopped that drain. We also filed appropriate criminal charges. We submitted, of course, you know, since you were a member of the Security Committee, and you attended the Finance Committee when I presented it to the MPs, and an additional report to the Committee on Finance of the Assembly on the findings of our budget inspection. Minister Davinic was the ringleader in the chain and therefore a criminal charges were filed against him, but also against four other senior officials at the defence ministry. What will depend solely on the judicial authorities. What is certain, Minister Stankovic has made sure of everything I have told you about on the board and citizens of Serbia, and next week will be a cleanup at the Ministry of Defence. All those involved in this procurement will simply exit the Ministry of Defence, in their place Minister Stankovic proposes some new people. I'm about the court to do professional work. I'm not going to get into what the verdict will be in this case. I would like it to end as soon as possible, as most citizens of Serbia, as well as you who spoke earlier. Unfortunately, you've seen for yourself that in other cases these processes are going very slowly with us. It's not just our case, even in the world. Somehow, that justice is also very slow. Everyone would like it to be far faster. Unfortunately, the courts have this logic, quite the opposite of what I would like it to be, as an economist, who is pragmatic and who wants to solve as many things as possible in as short a time as possible. The criminal charges are well-founded, and with all the accompanying documentation, we've explained it. We also gave it to the Assembly Committee, so that the Committee could see for itself the justification of these applications. With 176m euros, the contract was high by at least 40%. Prices in these invoices were 40% higher than the same equipment delivered to the defence ministry in the previous year. So, just a comparative analysis from the same supplier, Mile Dragic, we found that 40% of the prices were high without talking about quantities. There's been a three-time change in supply requests. First of all, they came from some strategic defense review, I say some kind of document. Why someone? If it were a serious document, it would have been brought once, it wouldn't have changed three times. It has been changed three times over the last year, where a first estimate of the need for armed forces, which is peacetime, has been given by the military. It increased, 10, 20, 30,000 soldiers, as a new report was made, and eventually it turned out that the strategic defense proposal actually served as a form to make a purchase of 74,000 vests in five years, that it did not contain any real defence needs at all. After all, the document was invalid because it was not adopted even by the Council of Ministers. Someone at the Ministry of Defence, and it was not only Mr Davinic, to be completely open, but also the people under him, who obviously dragged him into all of this, which Davinić did not absolve from responsibility, which the court must determine the responsibility of all those who were in the chain. Apparently, he was persuaded to finish it as soon as possible for some reason, and there is a special annex contract that in the event of a possible break-up of the SCG obligation Serbia takes over. There is even an annex, one member in the contract, that in the event that, obviously, someone planned that it would be discovered only next year, when the first payment war arrived, that in case I didn't know what the referendum in Montenegro would be, unless there was a common state, Serbia would have to pay the whole contract. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted. We asked the D.A. to cancel the contract. As a result, the Council of Ministers suspended, which is not enough at the moment, the contract has been suspended, not yet out of force. We expect the Council of Ministers to completely put him out of power and I expect Mr. Stankovic to take action to require the Council of Ministers to completely put off the contract, as it is clear that prices and quantities were high and that Serbian citizens would pay a large price. Then some in the process began to say that it was not meant to be paid for the money, but the properties of the military, so a document was found that we couldn't formally give to the court, for the simple reason that the copy disappeared from the Ministry of Defence, where a list of properties reportedly negotiated by Mr Dragic and someone from the Ministry of Defence, which would be paid in compensation for the company Mile Dragic. From the Military-Technical Institute, their building, via Karadjordjev, many buildings in downtown Belgrade, in the centre of some other places. So the idea was obviously to charge one piece of money, and Dragic to take over the military's real estate and then valorize them on the market. It was all an attempt. Why don't you talk about it anymore? Because the government has prevented an attempted robbery and because it is now in court, the court has to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22582	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Radet has appeared, but I also draw attention to the Rules of Procedure, although no such situation has been strictly defined by Articles 101 to 111, but above all I call for Article 104, paragraph 3 and, in the future, without warning, I will not allow metaphorical terms that call on the names of MPs present or absent. He's referring to all the speakers. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22583	Late, Mr. President. This is the second time you've heard such insolences from the mouth of Mladjan Dinkic. Yesterday I said that I had unpleasantness in my environment, because people didn't get it right, but wrongly, your ironic story when you said that your friends Tomislav Nikolic, Alexander Vukic and I, so I explained to people and now I'm publicly saying that none of the Serbian radicals would ever allow themselves to be friends with such a thief, like you, Mladjan Dinkic!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22584	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22585	Tell me whatever you want, but it's too late, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22586	This is the first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22587	You can also give me a warning. There is no warning in the Rules of Procedure, read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22588	That's right, according to the Rules of Procedure, first warning. There's a warning after the third one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22589	What Mladjan Dinkic said today and the other day is unacceptable. Parliament's president had to react, not later, when he saw that we were going to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now SRS MPs are going to finish today's work day, because we don't want to listen to this insolence of the Minister of Thieves, and you're going to put Mladjana Dinkic in jail for breaking into the National Bank with socks and hackers, for destroying and robbing the National Savings Bank, so be sure, that will come soon. We leave it to you, Mr. President, since we are finishing workday now, to study the Rules of Procedure well, to keep this sort of thing from happening to you and to prepare sugar and water for tomorrow, it will probably take Mladjan Dinkic when he hears and sees here the documentation that we will show him and which we will talk about when we talk about amendments to the law on banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22590	Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22591	It is not an argument for you, Mr Dinkic, that in your illegal actions, at least in your speech, you state friendship between Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic and members of the SRS. What is the relationship and what is the status between you and some of the SRS I do not know at the moment, but be sure that we will show our humanity when one day you need at least cigarettes or something that is on such occasions and in such space and how you need it. Count on it, but in any case we won't forgive you, nor will we forget, Mr. Dinkic, that you committed one crime, and that is, no matter what you claim you never wore a hekler, committed at the National Bank. You weren't wearing a hekler, but those who were with you, who allowed your safety and security, to force the former governor, Vlatkovic, to resign, to sign other documents. It exists at the end of the court, it's a court dispute that's being conducted, among other things, and against you. After all, when it comes to Cyprus, why do you count on public forgetfulness? Don't always count and rely on that factor. Yes, the public is forgetful in Serbia. They forget Serbia's citizens, for the simple reason that you have imposed on them an economic system in which they have to think about how to survive, how to survive. So that information, which you gave them earlier when you were in Cyprus or coming back from Cyprus, was a distant past. Take the daily press from that time, from that period, read your great, vast and vast lies when it comes to the number of these interviews and you will see what you have said. Your every return was expected with tears from your associates, because they were sure you were bringing them great money from Cyprus. Just remember how many times you've been on duty, as you have now called Borko Vukic, so it turns out that when a woman came out with arguments and arguments, you were silent and you had no further argument to accuse her personally. Not because you changed your mind about that person, but because logic and reality said she was right, not you, Mr. Dinkic. When it comes to the Mile Dragic affair, one day you must realize that you will admit the real truth to the Serbian public. (President: Time. ) When you started an affair about the purchase of military equipment, when essentially and basically it was an internal conflict, you stopped Mr. Minister because you thoughtlessly mentioned one name, which is the name of Svetozar Marović. When one of his advisors or advisors, as you introduced the new coins, when she warned you about the National Savings Bank, that's when the tensions fell, and then you took off, you retreated, and it all ends up on criminal charges. (President): Please, time. It wasn't you who accused Davinic, Mr Dinkic, but Milet Dragic. With such an argument, which you have just presented, would that man have the right to be freed and defended from freedom? No, you wouldn't. All your argument comes down to the already recognizable one -- if they find out I'm guilty or if they remind me I'm guilty, then no matter how good I am with Milo Djukanovic, I'm good with that drummer from Montenegro, and then I'm gonna wave, drum around Serbia, so Serbia will simply forget what I did. I'm telling you this for the best of all, and don't ever understand, nor think that we radicals have anything personal against you, but we have a personal responsibility. You'll answer eventually, Mr. Dinkich. You saw how the former regime responded to all those who thought they were untouchable, that they had no time to appear in court, to hide behind immunity. There are changes, times and relations between political forces change, and you will have the opportunity to prove to the court everything you claim from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22592	Here you are, MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22593	Mr. President, when Mr. Dinkic spoke, he mentioned on several occasions the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia Slobodan Milosevic and I appreciate Mr. Dinkic being a serious man and that he should deal with serious issues, not with street talk and that street story lasts for five years, where Milosevic's money is being paid and I think it's more embarrassing to talk about it. It's like that folk thing. Hold on to the thief. Borka Vukic, on several occasions, explained and explained to everyone she met in the duels on TV how this state worked, how companies worked when we were under sanctions, when things were hard to deal with. Probably had to be exported and imported from this country. If something is not clear to Mr Dinkic, then I would ask him, since he is in power, as well as the finance minister, to provide a duel on TV with Borko Vukic and to clarify all these things to him. You have mounted many affairs, and your biggest affair where you started them and because of this affair you started to get functions, it is an affair against Milosevic, and then you had an affair against Djelic, Dragic affair, Karic affair and nothing at the end. In this country official officials can tell what they want, they can tell a street story both officially and here in the Assembly for this pay phone without answering anyone. It is not correct to mention Slobodan Milosevic now. It would have been correct if you had mentioned him, but at that time you were not in that rank, nor could you come and share anything with Slobodan Milosevic. Time will show who's what. You were talking about affairs in our time. He's having a lot of affairs from 2000 to 2005. It's all going to add up in one place at a time, and then we're going to talk about who paid and what money, etc. This is where the minister said 52 bills were transferred. I'm asking the ministers now if he's transferring money to 52 accounts. Do these countries and our companies in the state transfer money to other countries into 52 accounts, and maybe to 100 etc. The money in Cyprus was money from businesses that did business. Because when the country was under sanctions, no one wanted to work with us through our accounts. It had to, and Borka explained greatly, our businesses to take the money to Cyprus and that they could provide the basics and that the state could function. You have to, when you talk about affairs, you have to tell me about Davinic's affair and satellites, but he's from the G17 party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22594	Thank you. I don't think it's accurate who's a member of the party that we're not talking about parties here. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. Replic, I'm sorry, to whom the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22595	You use your place to throw, so you commented that Davinic is not in party G17...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22596	I didn't comment on the personality, Mr. Perich...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22597	I heard you well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22598	I told you correctly, I don't think your information was correct, but it wasn't just about that. It's my obligation under article 27 to run a session. You can't throw yourself away from where you're taking something, it's not right. Besides, after you, he asked for the word Mr. Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22599	You did not conduct the session, but you commented that Davinic is not a member of the G17 party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22600	Please, I didn't mention the name of any man or party. I don't do that from this place and I have no intention of doing it in the future. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. It's not right to have a conversation like this. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22601	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've reported more to the public. I've been an MP in the National Assembly for five years, and I'm a little bit of a bit of a talk about this so-called. The Cypriot money, but ours. And if they were radicals here, I'd ask them, as well as Mr. Secretary, let's put an end to that money once. The money is gone and can't be there, because it's not in that way, as originally imagined, or brought to Cyprus. Come on, let's take it in a row. Number one, it's not about Milosevic's money, it's about talking like that in a jargon. When it comes from the assembly pay phone, then the citizens of Serbia get the impression that Milosevic made some money, so now he could have the money. The money could also have been our businesses, the legal entities that worked in the conditions Mr. Hranislav Peric spoke of, in conditions where we could not do financial business with any country in the world except Cyprus. You know that we used to do this with Macedonia, so when it was interrupted, then Cyprus was the only country that wanted to work with Yugoslavia, SRJ and Serbia in a way that ensured that the economy lived as well. Secondly, I'd be pleased to see that money exist and that they can return to our country. Thirdly, Slobodan Milosevic himself said in his own time, and I would like that money to return, if anyone thinks they are in my account, I give up those pairs in the name of who finds them. So I don't think there's any point in every topic anymore, or even this money laundering bill, talking about money that doesn't exist. I'm sure no one will ever find them, because that would be something scientifically fantastic, to find something that doesn't exist. So I'm asking you to put an end to it. We are socialists very responsible and correct people. For me, I also think I'm a legitimate MP, and so will man. I can't listen anymore to anyone calling about that money, and he also knows there's no money. I can't listen to those who still think there's some money, and they're just so masterly hidden that no one can find them. Once again, I'd like someone to find them and return to this country, because it would benefit me. Any competition in rhetoric on this subject leads only to deepening any differences that we do not need at this time and are neither useful. We will support any regulation that will prevent money laundering in the future, which will bring money flows into the status of regularity and legality, which will prevent, mildly said or rightly speaking, theft. Don't think that some socialist supports anything that was ever done to the contrary to the law today, contrary to the positive regulations that, as you know, we're voting here in this assembly. At the very end, I don't think it's fair to mention names without them as personalities and people being able to answer that in the right way. Finally, President Slobodan Milosevic's health at the moment is such that I think it is a bit degutant to talk about some "his" money. There's no money. I'm undermining it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22602	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22603	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago we discussed the topic of when the National Assembly can work without a quorum. There was a conviction, and there was a reply from the president of the assembly. I don't think he's right and he's still breaking this Rules of Procedure. In Article 86, paragraph 4, reads: "The debate on certain points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session shall be conducted regardless of the number of Members present." So it's about certain points. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it appear that the President of the Assembly can decide which points. So someone has to decide when to work without a quorum. Since tonight in the O.R., I counted, there are 19 MPs, since the amendments to the parliamentary group that are not present in the O.R., please finish the session, because any further work would make no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22604	Thank you. Already one MP has turned his attention today to the absence of two letters A and C, in a word, in individual terms, instead of individual. It is referred to the Administrative Committee, which, as you know, is the only one who interprets and does not have the President's right to interpret, so he did not interpret it even a few days ago. We are now working on the Rules of Procedure, Article 85, paragraph 4, which explicitly regulates and says, "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, that is to say, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the President declares to the Members of the People's Parliament," which is now the case. It's done, of course, by that article you quoted, with full meaning. We are going to ask the Legislative Committee to, as it has corrected that mistake that has been pointed out before, which is that the SR Yugoslavia stands instead of Serbia-Montenegro, so that it corrects this, we will also get that interpretation. We certainly, if you have patience, and I believe in the responsibility of all of you, because you are one of the MPs who is very active and present at all sessions and when the working time is extended and when it is not, unlike many MPs, I believe that you will have patience, we are just finishing work on the Rules of Procedure. If you agree, allow me to bring the end. So before that, you'll have to do business. Here you go, Mr. Perry. I suppose you're dissatisfied with the answer, but it's my duty as president of the National Assembly when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure to explain. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22605	And last time I said that often when you explain it then it's not clear to anyone, because I didn't explain it, you can throw free, I didn't advertise, extension of the session, why you're extending the session after 18 hours. I said it, and it stands in Rule 4, in Article 86, you yourself said it should be corrected by the Rules of Procedure. As the Rules of Procedure is corrected, the existing Rules of Procedure that you have written applies, which you have imposed on us here in the Assembly, but when you explained it, you said you would not use it, that it would only be in some cases, etc. You're using it from the adoption of this Rules of Procedure under every law. And you've been doing the budget without a quorum, and I think big mistakes have been made in that part, so please don't make any further mistakes when this assembly corrects your Rules of Procedure, you'll be working on a new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22606	Thank you. So it's not about correcting the Rules of Procedure, to be clear, Mr. Pericic, I fully understand your insistence sophisticated on this differentiation, but we've already made it clear today. Therefore, it is a consolidated text given by the Legislative Committee, not the Assembly. So, the Legislative Committee, when it was giving a consolidated text in the press, simply didn't correct something that this assembly had adopted, and now we have, you're absolutely right, and I say, so I respect this distinction that you're suggesting can be interpreted as "single" and "single" as "some of." There should be no way to leave that duality behind, and I expect that in the consolidated text the Legislative Committee will correct it, and there are some members of the Legislative Committee that will help us, and we are certainly working on the Rules of Procedure and there is no need to change that. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Rankic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Djordjevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Zivkov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Momir Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 15 was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 17a be added after Article 17. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted an amendment to Chapter IV. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 27a be added after Article 27a. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22607	Thank you. I'll be extremely brief. I'd like to thank the MPs who spent the whole day here in the O.R. discussing these very important laws. Again, I am pleased that on the one hand there was no expert, serious debate over the law on the prevention of money laundering, only a truly legitimate opposition from the SRS concerned the possibility that the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering was established as an independent body, but I pointed out that this was a solution applied in Europe only by Montenegro and Romania. Now that it obviously wasn't enough to convince them, then unfortunately it started on some other subjects, which is the right of MPs. However, I want to say one more time, since it was irony, and since the public and maybe someone can take something wrong, I have never entered anywhere nor invited nor invited, so I guess the citizens of Serbia know me, I am normally acting, I have never fallen into the National Bank of Serbia, and at least with a sock on my head. I've never put a sock on my head, and I'm sorry to say words like this at all, but so many times they've done it in the last five years, they've repeated that I have no other way than to say that I've never done it. God forbid I ever carried a weapon with me. I don't have a gun license. I'm not attracted to guns at all. So some people are attracted to weapons, legitimately right. I don't like hunting, I don't like guns, I don't like guns at all. I'm attracted to other things. I'm not that kind of man at all. Secondly, Vlatkovic never resigned with coercion. Vlatkovic was former governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, however, Mr. Vlatkovic can always confirm that, as far as I know, he lives in Novi Sad and anyone can ask him. On the contrary, he served as governor of the NBJ until a new governor was elected by the ruling of the then SRJ Assembly. It was only then that I took over to do the governor's duty. So no one's been coerced, but a decision has been made to elect a new governor. Of course, I never feared anyone, because I know how I worked. I'm proud of what I did as governor of the NBS, proud of what my people have done now at the Ministry of Finance. That's why there's really no reason to be afraid of SRS threats. I can listen to them, it's not easy for me. Right now, it's not even easy to listen to everything that comes out of the waistline. There are a lot of things that radicals try to criticize from a professional point of view, and I really appreciate it. You saw it yourself, and today I accepted an amendment on behalf of the government, because it was really professionally reasoned. But when you go to this field of demagogy, insinuation, then there's no other way but to caricate what they're doing, and that's what I've been doing. I've never, ever felt better. I'll never be friends with Wolfie or Tom Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22608	Mr. Dinkic, we said we wouldn't talk about MPs who are away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22609	I'm sorry they got upset, that they left, and I thank you for holding out on finishing this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-23-0.u22610	Thank you, once again, for understanding. Thank you, everyone. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. As confirmed, tomorrow we will continue the debate in detail, at 10.00 hours, on the 5th item of the agenda – the Bill on Banks. Thank you.
