ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-17-0.u12741	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 136 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Radojko Obradovic, Goran Svilanovic, Zarko Korac, Slobodan Mihajlović and Miroslav Markicevic. I remind you, at this meeting, we have held a final debate with the 9th item of the agenda so far. I would like to inform you that, as the first-signed MP on request to convene this extraordinary session, as the authorised representative of the applicant requests on their behalf, and after consulting the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am withdrawing from the agenda of item 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21 and 22, so that for this session only item 18 – The selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the list submitted by the authorised proposings. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – The selection of Members of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia Radio-Agency from the list that have been submitted by the Authorised Proposers You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information since 5 November and 9 December 2004, which contain all the lists of candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency who have submitted authorised proposals. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and these are three Social Democratic Party MPs, by five minutes, according to Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I am informing you, and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs, therefore, that the authorised representative of the DS Group is Boris Tadic for this point, Gordana Comic, and the SPS parliamentary groups for this point, Mr Rajko Baralic. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a unique search, does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the election of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from lists submitted by authorised promoters. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint 17 February 2005, so today at 15.00 hours, as a day for voting on all points of the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you. [[After breaks – 16,10]] Dear People's MPs, good afternoon again. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 160 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I suggest that the National Assembly decide that if we do not complete the vote by 1800 hours, we continue to work until the vote is completed on all agenda points of the session. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 24, 17 of the 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I remind you that the National Assembly held a debate on all the points of the agenda of the 2005 First Extraordinary Session, so since there was no quorum to decide on the minutes of the previous sessions at the beginning of this session, we move to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions, and then to the decision on the first item of the sitting agenda. They were delivered to you: minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held in 2004, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14 December 2004, the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21 December 2004, and the minutes of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 21 and 22 December 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, based on Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, none of the Members of the People's Committee has been notified in writing of the objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14 December 2004. For 126, of a total of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14 December 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21 December 2004. For 126, of a total of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21 December 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 21 and 22 December 2004. For 126, of a total of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 21 and 22 December 2004. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the current fruit material, VINOVO LOZA AND HMELJA Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruits, vines and hops in principle. For 126, against 68, they did not vote four out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on fruity fruity fruity material, vines and hops in general. For 126, against 71, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on fruity fruity materials of fruity fruity fruits, vines and hops. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on railways to the vote, in principle. For 151, against 71, one of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Transport and Communications, MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic withdrew the amendment to Article 86. It's a bill of law. National MP Milovan Markovic, writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 96. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of MP Miroslav Markevic to Articles 91, 94 and 96. It's a bill of law. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 112, with 11 abstentions, the vote was not 28 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 7 paragraph 5 and in all other members the words "The Railways Directorate" be replaced by "the competent ministry", in an appropriate decline. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, with 22 abstentions, 27 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, with 22 abstentions, 27 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that the word "minister" be replaced in Article 11(2) and in all other members by the words "competent ministry" in an appropriate decline. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 104, abstention 21, was not voted 28 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 102, abstention 21, it did not vote 32, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, with 23 abstention, 25 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verica Radet. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 102, with 22 abstentions, 24 of 22 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, abstention 23, was not voted 28 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104 abstentions of 20, not 101, of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport Committee and has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 101, abstentioned 72, 30 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, with 19 abstentions, 100 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of chapter 4 above article 78 be deleted and Article 78 changed. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, abstention 21, it did not vote 31, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 79th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, abstention 21, did not vote 28 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, abstention 21, 27 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 81st Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, abstention 21, did not vote 28 of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milomir Minic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 102, with 22 abstentions, it was not 26 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 103, with 19 abstentions, was not voted 28 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Transport and Links Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 103, with 19 abstentions, 30 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 96th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 103, with 22 abstentions, 29 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on rail in general. For 151, against 71, two of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on railways. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF POSTANICAL SERVICES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the bill on postal services in principle. For 148, against 71, six of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that, in writing, amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milka Silajev to Article 23, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović to Articles 3, 21, 22 and 82, and Velimir Stanojevic to Article 75, as well as that an integral part of the Bill's proposal had become an amendment of the National MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Zarko Obradovic to Article 75 and Velimir Stanojevic to Articles 97, 98 and 99. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 102, with 19 abstentions, 30 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, with 20 abstentions, was not voted 33, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, abstention 71, 29 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 102, 27 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, with 22 abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, abstention 21, 30 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 103, with 18 abstentions, 30 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 104 abstentions 16, 30 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 129 abstentions, 67 were not voted 28 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 100, with 18 abstentions, they did not vote 32, out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 99, abstentioned 15, they did not vote 34, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 104 abstentions 15, 29 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, with 18 abstentions, 30 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, abstained 72, it did not vote 25, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 101, abstention 21, no vote was made by 30, of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 103 abstentions 16, 29 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 102, with 18 abstentions, 33 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Branislav Blazic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 102, with 15 abstentions, 35 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, with 17 abstentions, 34 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 65th amendment. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 101, with 19 abstentions, did not vote 36, of the 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, with 67 abstentions, it did not vote 36 of the 226 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 101, with 19 abstentions, 34, 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, v. 118, there were no 89 votes, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 100, abstention 22, was not voted 33, out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 100, abstention 21, did not vote 35, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 99, abstentioned 18, no 38, 225 MPs voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milka Silajev and Zeljko Ivanji. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against 71, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, with 20 abstentions, it was not 32, of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, the abstentioned 12 did not vote 41, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MPs Milka Silajev and Željko Ivanji submitted together to the 71st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, v 69, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 103, with 16 abstentions, 29 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, with 19 abstentions, it was not 32, of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Aleksandar Djordjevic submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 102, with 18 abstentions, 30 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 100, with 18 abstentions, 35 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 76. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 102, with 19 abstentions, he did not vote 31, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103 abstentions, 20 did not vote 28 of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 102, abstention 13, he did not vote 31, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 80th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, with 20 abstentions, he did not vote 30, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 101, abstentioned 18, he did not vote 33, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 102, with 18 abstention, he did not vote 34, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, abstention 14, he did not vote 36, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 102, with 20 abstentions, he did not vote 33, of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 102, abstention 14, he did not vote 33, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 103, with 15 abstention, 36 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 97, abstentioned 18, no vote of 40, of 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic to Article 102. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 103, with 19 abstention, 35 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec to Article 103. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 100, with 20 abstentions, 36 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 104th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 102, with 20 abstentions, not 33, out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on postal services in general. For 153, against 71, it did not vote 5, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on postal services. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Mediation After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on mediation in principle. For 124, against 92, it did not vote 12 out of 228 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 20 and to Article 21. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 127, a abstentioned one, was not voted 68, out of 227 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 122, 70 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 88, with two abstentions, they did not vote 74, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 95, 97 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 124, 68 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 124, 67 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on mediation in general. For 124, against 94, they did not vote three out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a law on mediation. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Action Plan of Harmonization of the Economic Systems of the Member States of the National Community of Serbia and of the Black Gore for the Prevention of Prevention and Administration of the Obstruction of Freedom of Freedom of People, Slaves, Services and Capitals Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, in principle. For 153, against 64, five of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital in general. For 155, against 63, four of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill amending the Law on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital. That concludes the vote on the first five points. I suggest a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-17-0.u12746	The Legislative Committee has reviewed the amendment to Article 119. Proposal for a law and amendment to Article 94 The bill, because there was a need to answer the question of whether there was a conflict between norms. In both cases, therefore, compared to Article 94. The bill, where amendments were tabled by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralic, found that there is no cohesion. There is only a situation that one part of the amendments of MPs Tomo Busetic and Rajko Baralic is expanding and that practically consumes part of Natasa Jovanovic's amendment, and there are other attitudes that differ and that are complemented, and are not in mutual collage. The rest of Natasa Jovanovic's amendment, which contains emulation, can be legally regulated after adoption. The same principle shall apply to all three amendments to Article 119. The bill, in line with amendments by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic, who submitted the amendment together, to the amendment of MP Dusan Mrvos and to the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic. The National Assembly can continue to work on the adoption of amendments to the draft laws and laws in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-17-0.u12747	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. I thank you and the Legislative Committee, and I thank the MPs who have been able to spontaneously satisfy the legality of these votes. We're continuing our work. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 285. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 105, they did not vote 52 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on working in general. For 127, against 66, abstentions of 29, one of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed the draft labour law. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE FAMILY LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the Family Law proposal in principle. For 156, against 66, one of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that, in writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs Branca Stojanović and Zivodarka Dacin to Article 2, Brance Stojanović and Toma Busetic to Article 66, Bojan Kekić and Hranislav Perić to Article 68, Brance Stojanović and Zoran Angelković to propose the addition of a new member of 84 and Brance Stojanović and Rajko Baralić to Article 139. It's a bill of law. Also, during a review of the draft laws in particular, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic withdrew amendments to Articles 75 and 94. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs: Leile Ruzdić-Trifunović to members 20 and 279, Natasa Jovanovic to Article 37, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meha Omerović to members 47, 48, 65, 76, 99, 103 and 308, Branislav Blažić to Article 61, Bojan Kekić and Zivodarka Dacin to Article 70, with correction, Paje Momcilova to Article 95, Anita Beretić to Article 112, Bozidar Koprivica to Article 288, Vjerice to Article 292 and Zoran Krasic to Article 297. It's a bill of law. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 107, with eight abstentions, it did not vote, 19 of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Milan Jankovic and Zvonimir Stevic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 104, they did not vote 32, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 102, they did not vote 22, out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 52, out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 106, he did not vote 51, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 125, they did not vote four out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, v 104, they did not vote 33, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 127, one of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. Proposer representative, Minister Lalovic, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. The Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 151, two, abstentioned 68, were not voted by three, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 12, paragraph 3 and in all other members the word "minister" be replaced by the word "minister" in the corresponding decline. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 121, 36 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing the amendment to Chapter I in Part II of the bill, above Article 15. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 125, they did not vote four out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 123, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 122, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic have submitted a joint amendment, with a correction, which they propose to subtitle in Part II of the Bill after Article 16, "Disables to Marriage". The proposing representative, during a review of the draft law in particular, accepted this amendment, with a correction. The Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment, with correction, be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 154, a abstentioned one, did not vote 69, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, v 120, abstention one, did not vote nine, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 121, nine of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 110, 27 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 124, four of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 120, there were no votes of eight, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 24th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 123, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together have submitted an amendment proposing to amend the title of Title II in Part II of the Bill after Article 24. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, 26 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 122, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 124, four of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 121, seven of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 126, two of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 35th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 123, they did not vote 23, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 35th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 121, they did not vote 34, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 123, three of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 37th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 121, seven of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 122, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 124, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 41st amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 118, 9 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29 against 120, 75 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP, Anita Beretic, submitted to the 59th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, against 105, they did not vote four out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 121, 35 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 77th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 122, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29 against 118, 77 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Wait a minute, let's see if there's any chance the amendment to article 77 that's been accepted and has become an integral part of the law, just to check it out. It was read at the beginning, since it was accepted and the Committee has made its statement, everything is fine. Member of the 96th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 104, 25 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 117, 36 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 101, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, the government proposed not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the legislative committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 101st amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 121, 11 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 105, with four abstentions, there was no vote of 45, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 120, 37 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Rajko Baralic, Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted together to the 130th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 100, they did not vote 102 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 143rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 122, they did not vote 34, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 153rd amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 120, 12 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted the amendment to Article 153. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Zlatan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 155. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 119, 37 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 156th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 122, 30 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted the amendment to article 159. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 160th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 119, 76 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 167th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 118, no 38 of the 223 MPs voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to Article 188. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 119, 76 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 122, they did not vote 33, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 194th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 103, 49 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 197th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 102, they did not vote 24 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to article 198. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, 25 of the 224 MPs did not vote against 103. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 203rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 229 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 123, he did not vote 71, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 230 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 120, there were no votes of eight, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic proposed one amendment to delete the title "Peace" and members 233 to 239. It's a bill of law. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 284 by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 121, seven of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 312 of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 317th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 123, two abstentions, he did not vote 31, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 318th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 120, there were no 38 votes, of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 357th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 120, 36 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote on the Family Law proposal in general. For 157 against 67, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Family Law. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AGENCY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on public agencies in principle. For 132, against 67, they did not vote 24 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, 30 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 101, out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. A little quiet, Mrs. Stojačić, so you'll hear, excuse me, please, we won't throw, but I've asked a few times quieter, it's not possible, I've been reading for three and a half hours, you understand. [[Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić: A little louder, we can't hear.]] Thank you. For 28, against 120, 76 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 73, out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In fact, 116 did not vote 100 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26 against 120, 78 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of Part II, as well as an amendment to Article 8. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 120, 76 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 119, one abstention, they did not vote 102, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 124, they did not vote 72 of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 123, they did not vote 73 of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 106, he did not vote 101, out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 122, 99 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 104, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121, they did not vote 102 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 121, 74 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 118, they did not vote 103 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 121, 98 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 121, 99 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 123, they did not vote 72 of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 99, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 116, 78 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 116, they did not vote 103 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public agencies in general to vote. For 128, against 67, 29 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public agencies. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – MEETING OF THE REPUBLICAL AGENCY MEETINGS FROM THE Ljiljana Đurđevac and Vukman Čović, candidates for members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, from the list submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information, expressed their desire not to be elected members of the Council. I ask the MPs to keep this information in mind when voting on candidates for members of the Council. It is a unanimous decision of the Committee on Culture and Information. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. Before joining the vote on the proposed candidates, I note that the National Assembly, in accordance with the article. 22nd and 23rd. The Law on Broadcasting elects a total of nine members of the Council on the proposal of authorised proposings, with the ninth member elected later, on the proposal of previously elected members of the Council. I note that, in accordance with Article 24. The law, each list contains two candidates, of which the National Assembly selects one, except for the list proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly, which contains six candidates, of which the National Assembly elects three. Also, I would like to remind you that he is a member of the 27th and 3nd centuries. The Law on Broadcasting provides for three members to be elected for a period of two years, three members for a period of four years and three members for a period of six years, during the first election of members of the Council. In doing so, before the National Assembly moves to decide on the proposals submitted, the president of the National Assembly shall by lot determine the authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for two or four years, respectively. I also note that all the candidates on the list, proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information, are selected for the same period, since only three members of the Council are selected from the list of those who are elected, and draw not the names of candidates but the names of authorised applicants. I will now read the names of all authorised promoters with seven CDs, which I will then fold, put in a bowl for the draw, and then do the draw: the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina; the rectors of the University of Republika Srpska; associations of broadcasting public votes in the Republic of Serbia, associations of journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia; domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are primarily concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children; churches and religious communities; the ninth member proposed by previously elected members of the Council. We're approaching the draw, and first I'm pulling out a note with the names of authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for two years. The ninth member, proposed by previously elected members of the council. Churches and religious communities. However: one, two, three, the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that is three. That part's over. I am now pulling out the titles of authorised applicants whose candidates are elected to four years: domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights; associations of broadcasting texts in the Republic of Serbia and associations of journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia. And, another, last, university rectors in the Republic of Serbia. I find that candidates of the remaining authorised proposings are elected for six years, and this is the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. We move to a vote on the proposed candidates, with a reminder that they are in accordance with Article 115(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly elected those candidates voted for by more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposer of the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly. I remind you that candidates: Aleksandar Vasic, Ljiljana Djurđevac, Bojan Jovanovic, Vladimir Cvetkovic, Nenad Cekic and Vukman Covic. I am voting on a proposal to elect Aleksandar Vasic as member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 220, they didn't vote three, of the 223 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Ljiljana Djurđevac as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For one, against nine, two abstentions, 211 of the 223 MPs did not vote. I am voting on a proposal to elect Bojan Jovanovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. In four, two abstentions, it did not vote 217 out of 223 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vladimir Cvetkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 213, one, abstention one, was not voted by nine, of the 224 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Nenad Cekic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 217 against one, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. I am voting on a proposal to elect Vukman Covic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Two, against 13, were not voted by 208, a total of 223 MPs. Please, that concludes the vote, so I find that the National Assembly for Members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, from the List proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information, chose the following candidates, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs, and that is: Aleksandar Vasic, Vladimir Cvetkovic and Nenad Cekic. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposer of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I remind you that candidates Goran Karadzic and Dusan Marinkovic. I am voting on a proposal to elect Goran Karadzic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 129, v. 68, it did not vote 25 out of 222 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dusan Marinkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For three, against 75, with two abstentions, there was no vote of 140, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has chosen Goran Karadzic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated promoter: university rectors in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the candidates are: - Prof. Miroljub Radojkovic, - Prof. Svetozar Stojanović. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Miroljub Radojkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For five, against 69, there was no 146 vote of 220 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Svetozar Stojanovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 144, against 67, it did not vote 12 out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has chosen Svetozar Stojanovic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the author: the associations of broadcasting public votes in the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the candidates are: - Slobodan Djoric, - Milorad Jaksic-Fandjo. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Slobodan Djoric as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 216, 7 of the 223 MPs did not vote. 2. I am voting on a proposal to elect Milorad Jaksic-Fandjo as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 20, against two, did not vote 199, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has elected Slobodan Djoric, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the author: domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights. I remind you that the candidates are Velimir Milosevic, Isabela Kissic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Velimir Milosevic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 208, against 5, 9 of the 222 MPs did not vote. 2. I would like to put the motion to elect Isabella Kisic for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 5, against 76, with three abstentions, not 138, out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has chosen Velimir Milosevic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by an authorised promoter: churches and religious communities. I remind you that the candidates are: - His Archdiocese are the episcopic Dr. Porphyria (Peric), - Aleksandra Jankovic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect his Presect Bishop, Dr Porfirija (Peric), for 211, against one, not to vote 10, out of 222 MPs. 2. I am putting forward a motion to elect Aleksandra Jankovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 17, against three, he did not vote 201 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has chosen His Presectation of Episcopals by Dr Porphyri (Peric), who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. Since we have held a vote on candidates' proposals to elect members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, allow me to congratulate on your and your behalf the elected members and wish them a lot of success in the work. Decision of the National Assembly on the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the sitting by the MPs, since the session pointed to violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 8 February 2005, at 17.00 p.m., pointed to injuries from members 1 to 236. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 86, against 115, nine out of 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 9 February 2005, at 12.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 87, against 112, 14 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 9 February 2005, at 12.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 89, against 115, nine out of 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you very much.
