ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 202 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Rajcic, Goran Svilanovic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, which set out 96 MPs in its request for the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have also received records from previous sessions, but according to an electronic report at this time, 126 MPs are not present, so we will carry out the adoption of the minutes in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was called at the request of 96 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, who was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 2. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic; 3. The request of the President of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 84(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Government Act. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION TO STOP THE FUNCTION OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA YOU have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Committee for Justice and Administration. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not yet done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Proposer Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Alexander Vukic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't report for anything special about Mr. Srdjan Djordjevic or to point out some irregularities in the Assembly's obligation to determine the state of play – he found a better job, he went to be a professor at Law School, so he won't be judge of the Constitutional Court anymore. I went out for this pay phone because I have an obligation, on behalf of the SRS, to state our position on the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We haven't had a formal Constitutional Court since the arrival of DOS to power, for more than a year and a half, and today we don't have it essentially. We have it formally, today it is the Constitutional Court which represents a political institution a couple of excellencies, such a political institution that deals exclusively with issues that are in the interest of certain political and non-political actors in this country, which does not always want its work and its obligations to be fulfilled in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The constitutional court of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has brought to a difficult situation several times, its own from time to time meaningless decisions, and from time to time directly against constitutional decisions. Also, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is the body that has contributed to the granting of rights to individuals in the National Assembly to serve with open thieving and that is something that cannot be tolerated. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, on the grounds, on the requests of individuals or SRS, as a political organisation, did not respond for several months and a few years, but that is why today, when it is in their interest or the interest of their political mentors, they will meet overnight or before the Constitutional Court session itself, with views represented by the President of the Constitutional Court. He has been a political figure since the 1990s, when Milosevic's co-worker was key, and today I see that the greatest Democrats on the globe are increasingly yellowing him out of every piece and face, and from his statements that he is trying to reach out to as much as possible not only to his earlier organisation, G17, but much more to those he thinks will be able to rule in the coming period. So my remark is just a general objection by the SRS to the Constitutional Court's work. It is finally time for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia to get its right and essence and form, that we have a legal order in this country, not that we have a god-awful legal order or on paper, and that in essence there is savagery, that we have a real madhouse – that you in the country have a case to show up some woman they're paying, a lot of money to give her to lie about, so that they invent murders, crimes, I don't even know what everything. Here, let me inform you, I got a call from Dr. Schwartz this morning, and you all know who Dr. Schwartz is, asking to examine the mental state of some people, including that lady! I said I wasn't a doctor, especially I wouldn't get in combination with Dr. Schwartz, but I said so in layman's voice that it's best to tie her to a radiator, some special facility to find, so at least you'll solve the citizens of Serbia and the entire Serbian state of one man's madness in this country! I hope that the Constitutional Court will act in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the legal norms, and not according to the political opportunite, as was the case so far, and I am confident that Dr Schwartz will also have more opportunities to do his job well in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16115	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one has submitted a list and a proposal for a debate before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the proposing representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have received a proposal for a decision made by the National MP Predrag Marković. You have received amendments submitted to the motion for a decision by the MPs: Predrag Marković, together with Zarko Obradović and Zoran Andjelković, Milan Markovic, Gordana Komić, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajić, Paja Momčev, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Sreto Perić, Miljko Četrović, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Antic, Milorad Mirčić and Zlatan Jovanovic. The amendments to be made until the opening of the motion for a decision will be sent to you during the session. You've received a report from the Administrative Board. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16116	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting with a very small intervention. Namely, it's about the next one. The proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was made by an urgent procedure. The emergency procedure is regulated by Article 157 of our existing Rules of Procedure, and says, "Only a law governing issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be predicted." I would ask the promoter to explain to us what circumstances could not be predicted here, and therefore today we have a proposal for a Rules of Procedure by emergency procedure. If we don't, I think breaking the current Rules of Procedure is a bad start, a bad first step to adopting a new Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask you for an answer, if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16117	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have no illusions in the SRS what most will do – that you will go over everything and vote on this new proposal for a restrictive Rules of Procedure. We could see that before at the board meeting. I'm sorry if there wasn't an DS representative, we could have voted you out, but they had a better look. There is, therefore, something else in Article 157 that is very interesting and that must be answered by the President of the Assembly, and we have not heard the answer at the Committee's session. When it comes to an emergency procedure, it is said: "Due to circumstances that could not be predicted", but now you have a whole part of the sentence, or a number of inserted sentences that say this – "and the passing of the law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. "To establish: therefore, it is certain that the adoption of such a proposal does not represent and has no adverse consequences for the lives and health of people; I am also sure that the rules of procedure as a sublegal general legal act has nothing to do with the security of this country. It's said "in the work of organs and organizations. " Has the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia been compromised so far while we have been working on such a Rules of Procedure, according to the positive Rules of Procedure we have had so far? So it wasn't, because the assembly was working, the president of the assembly assured us that last year we broke all the records in the number of laws passed, that we never worked more effectively in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism. If that's the case and if it's true that we've never done it more efficiently and better, what am I convinced of, Mr. President, because you wouldn't say such lies, then I'm interested in how threatened we are, and why do we need this to be brought in by an emergency procedure?- I'm sorry. If you're going to say: this is important to us to make things easier and to be able to wrap things up faster – the question of speed has nothing to do with the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the question of speed is not well mentioned in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because speed and this type of efficiency were mentioned by the autocratic regimes of '40. The year before, and I'm just, I'm sure no one wants to compare. The DOS was also mentioned three years ago. When they don't know what to do, they say, yeah, you spent money on fuel, about because they don't like someone saying something against the famous Dosmanian regime. But I don't think that's supposed to be your argument, and once again, in order to be fundamentally correct, I'm going to say, in this National Assembly's summation, it's a better atmosphere than in the last session; in the last session that they could without sanctions shoot us, they would shoot anyone who thought otherwise; fortunately they couldn't. But I ask you not to bring, especially in this way, a Rules of Procedure that would be even more restrictive than the criminally restrictive one that was brought in, as it was adopted, so if you wanted to do something to the MPs, you could extend their time, give them a proportionate right to parliamentary groups for amendments, not one for all. You could have changed a lot in a different way, and there is no excuse in the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia in any way. It can do that to your absolutely extensive interpretations. I think that for the work of this body, there is nothing more important than that of us to adopt such a Rules of Procedure, but I doubt that any MP in this assembly will believe it, whether it belongs to a coalition of ruling parties, those who support power, or belongs to opposition MPs. Simply, I think you have a duty to explain to us before entering the principle debate, before entering any serious story about the very text of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16119	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: You are obliged to respond first to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's your obligation under the Rules of Procedure. ) You see, it is required of the motion to give an explanation. Replica, but it has the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic spoke, and I have a replica on his presentation. First, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16120	It's hard within three minutes, when you count what's been broken in the Rules of Procedure, when someone has come up with the idea of changing their rules of procedure. I'm going to start with something that's obvious, which you can see at first sight, where you don't need any great knowledge of rights. It is no doubt that the Rules of Procedure and the decision amending the Rules of Procedure, act referred to in Rule 156 of the existing Rules of Procedure, are clearly stated in paragraph 3 that, as regards the form of the Rules of Procedure and the decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, it must meet all those conditions as regards the law – amendments and additions to a law. If the reasons for this proposal for a decision are considered, then it can be seen that there is no review of the provisions which are being amended, or complemented. Remember, you haven't forgotten, when we have in the debate some draft law on amendments and additions to a law, at the end of the argument there's a review of all the provisions, so the black pen underlines what's changing, what's being inserted. There is no such thing here, and that is why we can say that there has been some kind of abuse, because the promoter is also the president of the National Assembly. As President of the National Assembly for his proposal for a decision, he should have acted as mentioned in Article 133 – to return the motion to the applicant and to order him to remove the shortcomings, as usual the President of the National Assembly if a general act that has these shortcomings enters the procedure. What is really scary and what should remain recorded in history (no matter whether violence will be carried out in the adoption of such a proposal), the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly never changes the will of one parliamentary group, one party or parliamentary majority! If there is a general act that requires a general consensus, then it is the Rules of Procedure. It's not there! Since it is not there, the conditions for this to be found on the agenda are not met, because the question of how the Assembly will work is not a question of the majority or the minority, but it is a matter of full agreement of 250 MPs. It may not be theoretically possible for it to be realized by a number of 250, probably some other number of MPs who are in favour of a Rules of Procedure, greater than 126 and covering all the parliamentary groups, which is precisely a reflection of the parliamentaryism that should rule in this room. Since that's not there, this should go back to redecorating and achieving as much consent as possible, because this is how we vote on how we're going to work and how either one of us is going to use those rights guaranteed by the Constitution. There's no voting there. Those who voted, changed, cartooned the Rules of Procedure, played parliamentaryism here in this room, you know how they went. Whoever caught himself changing his rules of procedure, he told the citizens "I'm going down quickly". Predrag Markovic told us that it has polluted his authority, that he no longer wants to be in power and therefore changes this rules of procedure – that a man should go into political retirement because he did not manage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16121	Mr. Sarovic, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have broken Article 96 three times already. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which, among other things, your obligation is foreseen, after some MP points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to make an explanation. It is truly scandalous of your behavior, and I really don't know why at this session, where you need to discuss some next Rules of Procedure, in such a brutal way you step on the Rules of Procedure that you brought yourself. You do not have the right to wait here for five or six MPs to point to a violation of certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so that only then do you give an explanation, but you are obliged to immediately, each MP individually, answer whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been violated. If so, then you should suggest measures to correct that injury, see what we need to do and whether we can move on. If you think it is not, to explain why it is not in your opinion, to give an opportunity to an MP who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say whether or not he wants the National Assembly, unless he is satisfied with your response in the end, in the day of the vote, determine whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it. I'm the fourth MP to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I demand you say whether the injured Rules of Procedure have been in three previous cases, and I think it is evident and that you should admit that you have done this injury, which I suggest you have done, i.e. It is not disputed that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16123	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure or the conduct of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure relate to one another, which is that there was no right to an emergency procedure. You need to know that the proposer is proposing an emergency procedure, and this time in the same personality as the promoter and president of the Assembly, he is the only one who can change and explain it. So the president of the assembly was obliged to carry out the will of the promoter. The matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure does not stand, but if you are not satisfied with the answer, then in the day of voting, the Assembly will declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16124	Thank you. Mr. Mihailovich, you obviously don't understand the essence of parliamentaryism. I don't know how you can say that the chairman is obliged to do the proposal. If you're just a mere executioner of the will of the promoter, then I suggest you get out of that place right now and move on to someone else. You are here, both the President of Parliament and the Chairman, to implement this Rules of Procedure and to take care of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. We don't care what the proposer wants. The second thing is, you couldn't possibly have known or thought of what some next speaker was going to talk about. Your obligation was to immediately, as Mr Markovic pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, answer whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. With whether Mr Predrag Markovic or another future president of the National Assembly, the National Assembly has nothing. It is your duty that when you break the Rules of Procedure, too, you warn him that he did it. Your attitude towards parliamentaryism is precisely measured by your attitude towards the President of Parliament and by the ruling parliamentary groups. If you humbly and subjectively treat them and carry out their will, then you have no right, no moral or any other right, to contact us, who represent the opposition in this House, for anything and to say at any time that we have violated the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16125	Mr. Sarovic, the promoter presented his reasons for requesting urgent action. The question is whether we adopt these reasons or not. I say, if you are not satisfied with the answer and remain in that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please enter the Assembly to declare in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic. Don't mind your time, 'cause we'll be working around 6:00 a.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16126	The DS had its own representative on the Administrative Committee. The Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Milan Markovic, presented the DS's position and in principle on the draft amending Rules of Procedure, as well as on different individual issues. Regardless of any decision by the Administrative Board, this Assembly will make a definitive decision on whether or not the Rules of Procedure should be amended. As Mr Markovic said at the Committee session, such amendments to the Rules of Procedure are not acceptable to the DS and our parliamentary club will explain its position during the search period in principle and in particular. It is the position of this parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16127	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16128	I just want to point to what was said. He's right, and I went out on the wrong interpretation, so it's true that Milan Markovic was at the board meeting and he mostly spoke well. It's also true what I said: because there were no representatives of the DS from the board, administrative, we failed to beat the majority. So, there was a man from the DS who spoke at the Committee's session, but as an MP, not as a member of the Committee -- if there were two members of the DS Committee in voting, the relationship would have been 6-5, so against the Rules of Procedure, which would not have meant anything in the legal sense, because the Serbian Parliament would have brought the majority of votes again, I suppose, if coalition partners had agreed, the proposed Rules of Procedure would have voted, but it would have been important to know that the Serbian Parliament had brought that Rules of Procedure contrary to the will of the Administrative Committee. It would be significant, not in that sense, that we could change a lot, but in terms of moral condemnation of adopting such a restrictive act for MPs, especially for the opposition. So, if you will, especially for the SRS, because it is discriminatory in relation to the largest parliamentary group and the largest party in this House, especially when it comes to minutes, or times allowed for MPs to address the National Assembly on the subject of the amendment. When the debate comes up in detail, that's what I wanted to say and that's the full truth about what happened at the board's session. I would like and expect the President of the Assembly to finally come out and say why this was so necessary, whether the security of the country, the lives and the health of the people, or whatever it is, had to be carried out in such an urgent way. I just don't think it was the time or the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16129	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16130	So, first of all, I am still waiting for an answer to the question I asked, which concerns the urgency of the procedure, i.e. the respect of Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As for this Committee event, I must remind Mr. Vukic that the DSS and SPS coalition had a majority on this committee, on the Administrative Board, and that, afterwards, Zoran Angelkovic, who was revolved by some procedure of the chairman, left the Committee. And you know that after that, the "excuse" and "curse" followed by Mr. Angelkovic, so that the result of the vote, we both know, would be the same. Believe me, if there was any way to prevent the DS from voting, she would have done it, but you know it just wasn't possible, because most of it was present and there's no dilemma. On us from the DS and on you as representatives of the most numerous parliamentary group, it is up to us to fight with all the forces of this kind of solution provided for in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in order to preserve the little dignity of the National Assembly, as far as this year's presidency remains. Unfortunately, I must say, we were not allowed to discuss the work of Parliament Speaker, Mr Markovic's chairmanship and the ruling majority in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16131	If there are no more reports, allow that, pursuant to Article 156(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a single search. Does the promoter, MP Predrag Markovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16132	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this opening section, I will certainly answer some questions that have been asked about the possible violation of the Rules of Procedure. Allow me before that, I'm not a good speaker, to seek understanding from all of you, because I'm nervous. This is the second act in this session I'm explaining. I suggest it the same way, after a detailed conversation with the heads of the parliamentary groups and getting, of course, clear suggestions that they agree with, which they disagree with, which they would like to vote on, which they would not vote on. But what is important, therefore, talks with the heads of the parliamentary groups lasted long. Since the President of the Assembly represents all MPs, I certainly have no intention of presenting the information that any head of the parliamentary group has advocated, because that would be incorrect; the same way I signed this proposal myself, although professional services have worked on it. Of course, it includes all those remarks that result from years of comparison of the work of this assembly with some other parliaments, and finally, the work itself and the efficiency of the work of this assembly. But I stick to the rules that when you're president of something, then you can't speak for the party, otherwise you're a bad president and you don't do your duty. So, in no way do I speak partyly from this pay phone right now. I'm asking you to understand, because all the arguments I've heard in the last three months, how long individual discussions have lasted, I may not be representing them because they remain in the minority, and I can't even bring them to the public, but I assume that the heads of Parliament will be presenting their additional motives and attitudes related to this proposal. It's just for me to say what motives were for changing this Rules of Procedure, I'm short in this assembly. I thank Mr. Krasic for his good wishes, but I hope that I will not be too long, as long as you decide to do so – let me say the motives and in which direction the changes of the Rules of Procedure have taken place and why. The first motive is the one that can truly be interpreted twice and is already indicated in the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, which is the motive of efficiency. Why is it important for the congregation to be effective? Because this assembly, as the sole representative of all citizens, (there is no institution that represents all citizens anymore, it is only the National Assembly) must be based on all changes in society. And since society is wanted to change, then it has to change sometimes painfully, but what's important, it has to make changes in a legitimate way. Changes that don't work under the law, then, by the rule and under the pressure of reality, they go through regulations, they form temporary bodies, and then we find ourselves in a situation where we blame each other, argue, share society, share the state. Don't mind, I think, deeply respecting parliamentaryism, that this is a place where we need to discuss, not argue. There are always places for fighting at other meetings, in the media, party meetings, and here it is necessary to create conditions that all can, every MP, and especially the MP group to participate at a specific time, therefore, respecting the way citizens live, and not live well, and at least believe that they live well. So we need to respect these same rules, their time, and make it clear from when the debate is, what; do not argue, to allow all MPs, because not only at the session, work is, above all, in improving the law, therefore, on committees, in the preparation of the law, in writing amendments, in lobbying for these amendments, and where the key great work is – affecting to get quality laws. Of course, I thanked you all the year before, and I think now is the time to thank all MPs again, because it was only possible for this assembly of parliament to pass the most laws in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia over the course of one year, but it is crucial that what laws they are, how high-quality they are. I don't need to talk about it in any way, of course, you don't have to talk about it individually. We have an unbiased grade. Look at the review of the feasibility study. She is positive, but what's more important, she's true. It notes that the democratic processes stopped in 2002, were completely stiffed in 2003 and only by the law-making body, the Serbian Parliament, were they decommissioned and it was possible for a large number of quality laws to reach that positive assessment. Of course, inside, although this assessment is correct, it also says what is missing in the work of this Parliament, from technical means, from professional services, for which this assembly has no money or space; you know in what conditions you are doing, I don't have to explain it to you, but citizens often don't know: therefore, in completely inappropriate conditions to pass quality laws. That's why we had to adopt only part of the recommendations to improve the work of this assembly, but I am grateful that what was proposed in the Rules of Procedure received support from the OSCE, expressed in words: "On behalf of the OSCE mission in Serbia-Montenegro, I would like to express my support for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". All those who really care about doing things by European standards, of course, will hesitate to approach the amendments of this Rules of Procedure quickly, and that this assembly too begins to do as the congregations in Germany, England, Hungary, France do and that I do not count. So, on the one hand, to enable the MP to influence the adoption of the law, and on the other hand to allow the Assembly to control the executive power. That's why we put a whole series of proposals and amendments in this proposal for efficiency. I'm telling me one more time because I have no right to take good decisions. You're accusing me of bad. That's where I'm at your disposal. So, that the Assembly allows every day to work from 10.00 to 1800 hours and thus avoid obstruction. I really don't like the division, and I'm against all divisions, but after today's discussion on the Administrative Committee, I've accepted that I have to talk occasionally about the ruling coalition -- because they don't have representatives of opposition parties to provide what was called quorum. At the same time, it opens up the possibility for the ruling coalition to obstruct the start of work, as there will be no 84 MPs at the beginning of the working day. If something like that happens, it has to be sanctioned. This must be visible to the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, MPs of opposition parties must not be prevented from creating that condition, as they will now, on two occasions, check whether there are 84 MPs at the beginning of the working day. Of course, it's no problem for them to do that, either the opposition representatives, or the ruling coalition, but it'll be visible who's really here, who's working. The sanction, according to the amendment I have proposed, following talks and remarks by two parliamentary groups, and in particular detailed talks with representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that after one hour, they check from 10 to 11 hours, in case there are still no 84 MPs, the president, instead of starting a working day, cancels the session and moves the start by 24 hours. Of course, sanctions bear, on the one hand, those who wanted to obstruct the work so that they could start working at 14.00 p.m., but all those who did not come, because certainly after that finding, no one will be able to charge the daily fees, travel expenses, as well as the hotel where he spent the night, because it would be absurd, it could not "no" citizen in Serbia. The work of the Assembly begins, and that is the first part of efficiency, in the way it begins in each company, in the way that the self-service is opened. We can't act the way we don't want others to treat us. It's not a question of law. When you come to the supermarket and they say, it's that it says on the door that it works from 9:00 to 20.00 hours, but it doesn't work, because the one who's close to the director hasn't arrived yet, or the one who's an opponent of the director hasn't arrived yet, is standing there in front, won't come in, so you come by later, there'll be bread. How would you organize a life? This assembly should organise the entire state, as this assembly represents the citizens of Serbia. Also, who mentioned beer on the board today, the two of us, so someone asked me recently, what's going on in that ad for a beer where there's a machine and a tape, where it works; someone went in and turned on that tape. They won't be able to deliver that beer until the trucks that blow it up get to the shops, get it bought. But imagine that there are people standing in front of that factory, talking or arguing about their political differences, and preventing anyone who's in charge of the machine, from producing it, from turning on the machine. Either way, there must be mechanisms. Here, a whole series of mechanisms are offered to begin the sessions on time. If they don't, they should be sanctioned by those who prevent it and thus prevent opposition representatives or ruling coalitions from doing so. Secondly, it is possible to plan time, and your time, but also the time of citizens, who want to check how you represent them. It has often happened that as a result of various obstructions, the failure of Parliament's work, you find yourself in a situation to say it is really necessary that this law be passed as soon as possible, let's say, to reduce VAT; we now have such a law, which directly affects the quality of life; or, to establish customs regulations, and this is on the agenda of the next session, in order to reduce the payment deficit of this country. Of course, then often MPs are in a situation to say, here, we will not participate in the principle debate, we will shorten the time of the principle debate in order for the law to come as soon as possible, so the heads of Parliament agree on some importance. That's very good, it's parliamentaryism, but citizens don't hear the reasons, and there's no more that one party or one coalition will have an absolute majority in the assembly. There's a difference in the reasons why someone votes. It is possible that all MPs may vote for this Rules of Procedure, which I wish for, but for absolutely different reasons. They could explain these reasons to the citizens. There's no reason for them to do whatever kind of deprive those who voted for them, to deprive them of their arguments, in order to speed up some law. Of course, the Assembly works from 10.00 to 1800 hours. They can calculate when some law will be considered in principle and on the agenda. They can inform their voters and say, quite certainly, Monday or Tuesday, between 10.00 and 18:00, you will hear in detail what the media did not want to convey, because it was only a principle. You will certainly be able to commit your electoral body to understand the arguments you are defending. How will you let them know if I've heard the pitch well? That depends on the ability of the parliamentary groups. I believe that all MP groups are capable of doing so from this pay phone, as I am now informing that it will be possible. Second question of efficiency. What is it worth to you that you are effectively passing laws, if not all MP groups can influence the quality of these laws. We now have an official assessment of the quality of the laws that we passed last year as a meeting. But what will happen in the future, and we have a whole series of necessary laws, primarily because of our citizens, and then because of the international obligations, which this assembly has to pass in order to do by law, and not by some other way, by law. In order to enable this, a discussion here has been divided into the principle of debate in particular. In this way it is possible to have a fundamental impact on the amendments twice. Then, since there is no beginning of the working day, what was called the working quorum during the debate, because for each vote there must be a constitutional majority, the only possible one, therefore, is now opening up the possibility that MPs go and influence the laws. They can't even be manipulated by their MP group, so they should sit and guard the quorum. They can, because a large number of laws will keep committees working, and according to this proposal, but also according to the amendment that was submitted in the meantime, each MP, so what has existed so far, that each amendment speaks at the session for five minutes. First on the committee, the MP puts pressure on the promoter, and that is, as a rule, government and lobbying for a single amendment to be adopted. Since real arguments are often presented to MPs and the public during the principle debate, a principle debate is separated from the debate in particular, at least 24 hours. During that time, the committee is back in session and can adopt and propose an amendment, which so far has not been possible, because the board is a small congregation. Also, the call can thus point out the proposed way for the amendment to be voted. Until now, it has often been an excuse for the Proposer to say – we would have adopted this amendment, only if he were a little different, if two words had been left out; well, the Committee would have left out those two words, now it has a right. Also, the promoter has no excuse to say – I don't know how it affects other ministries, I need at least one day to ask around, people aren't there, I shouldn't disturb something, so we happen to get back some parts of the law, which, in principle, are indicated here, by the rule, often by representatives of the opposition, to return to law completions in a few months. In this way, there is no need to spend citizens' resources, it is done immediately, because it leaves time for the proposing to now question whether it affects other ministries, the overall Serbian budget, other legal acts, whether there is any obstacle. The amendment, when the debate on details comes, can be adopted more easily. All of these reasons, of course, go towards creating conditions to ensure the greatest participation of MPs in the law-making process, but also so that the MP is not manipulated in any way, either by the Rules of Procedure, or by the pressure of daily activities, or by the pressure of his parliamentary group. Of course, apart from the reasons that are mentioned, and I suppose Mr. Mihailovic did not respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the reasons for the urgent procedure were stated formally given by the urgent procedure for the citizens to know – the proposal was sent to the MPs, I suppose, and I believe they have responsible heads of MPs, that they were familiar with the details of the talks two months ago, but if not, this proposal was sent on June 4th, and today it is 21. So 17 days he's famous. I wanted, as a motionary, to allow amendments to be made until the very beginning of the principle debate. That only allows for an emergency procedure. So, that's an additional reason, that every MP on what he sees can give up. Many have done it, I thank them. Most of the amendments that have been given, as you will see, have been adopted, all those that have been in line with these principles. The second principle is the principle of control of the executive authority. I have a lot of understanding that often this speaker serves not only to propagate its views, but because of the various kinds of inability to control the work of the executive authorities, not in the form of a parliamentary issue, but in the form of a discussion, about the amendment or in the principle debate, it is actually used to publicly ask questions to someone who is in executive power. Of course, since I am interested, and I deeply believe most of you, the quality of life of citizens and the quality of the laws to be passed, should leave the possibility to be used in this legislative process every minute to justify the law. But that is why it is now possible for the heads of the parliamentary groups, who make proposals, and the President of the Assembly at least once a month – and I thank those who have further specified the amendment; there have been two proposals, I accept the one that shortens that deadline – so, at least once in 30 days, the public session here, where the called ministers must respond and answer directly to parliamentary questions. So, citizens are able to hear both questions and answers, because the citizen is able to conclude, there is no need to hear questions one day (through the discussion of the amendment), and tomorrow in the media, newspapers, TV logs, he hears a minister's reply after a few days. The ministers were elected by this assembly, and they must, at the best tradition of parliamentaryism, not only be present when discussing the laws they have proposed, but also at least once a month, at the request of the heads of parliament, and at the invitation of the president of the assembly, sit here and respond. Please, during the discussion, take care of the materials we've received. This is all done to enable, on the one hand, the separation of two functions here, therefore, legislative and control within this highest body of government in the country – once again I say: the body representing all citizens – to achieve efficiency both. In this time I especially thank individual Mrs. Komic, Mr. Krasic, Mr. Krstin, Mr. Nikolic, for the whole series of apparitions over the past year. Some things that have not been defined in business are now defined in business. It is a great pleasure that it is now possible for one part of the misunderstanding, which occurs during the session, to be removed. I deeply believe that each of you wants to make this Rules of Procedure and the work of this assembly even more responsible, more efficient, that it gives better results for the citizens, and that it spends less money – we are working on it. Also, I know that these changes, which are in line with European standards, which are in line with Serbia's needs, are certainly neither near final nor sufficient, and certainly there is a whole series of unforeseen circumstances that will arise. That is why I believe that this or some other call in this direction will continue to work on the amendments of the Rules of Procedure. But this direction must be respected, because as intrinsic as we are, we must take care of those who chose their deputies here, those who pay the MPs here, and we must apply the same rules that apply to the citizens of Serbia. Many of us here sometimes find it difficult, not agreeing with some attitudes, not having enough money, having problems with their families, having a problem with work, but having to do the job they've been chosen for, because they're acting the same way Serbian citizens! Many of them don't even have a job, many of them, of course they don't have money, have different problems, but they have to go in the morning to earn money within their opportunities. These are the options we decide here. I would draw attention to another, in my opinion, very important thing, although during the discussions on the Administrative Committee, I was distracted that it might not be so important. You know we're a country in transition and we can say a lot of things, but we can't set everything up. Since we are part of the "region", since we are part of Europe, since we participate in a whole series of common processes, of course, they do not happen overnight, but respects democratic procedures there, not dictatorships, like we want to respect here, so a whole series of decisions, and also creating our country's obligations, for months and sometimes years. That's what different gatherings are made about, they present possible solutions, they make observations, and that's kind of diplomacy. Finally, after a year or two, there is a solution that imposes a commitment. Often, I've seen it in the past year, and now there are representatives who need to do their duty. As speaker of the assembly, I was repeatedly in a situation where I was presented that someone had taken the obligation that the Serbian Parliament would vote something or pass a law, and the Serbian Parliament knew nothing about it. I'll check with professional services. There's no sign. So there's no parliamentary diplomacy. People travel, participate in some agreements, conclude that this is not their obligation, and they don't have to fight, make some remarks, they don't have to help fight different status for Serbia, because it's not their obligation. They are part of some other organs and have more important priorities, and these are secondary and do not apply to them, so they do not refer to this year, but come in line for two or three years. Finally, the elected MPs here get it during the agenda, and they need to make a statement. You can't do that! This assembly thus creates the possibility of planning the time of its parliamentary delegations, which will certainly take part in all the gatherings that prepare important decisions for the state of Serbia and its citizens. The MPs of this assembly will also dispute on boards and in public, but they will have information. Neither the citizens of Serbia nor the MPs will be found with information. There are a whole series of solutions that are inside, which I assume will be a proposal for support or criticism during the debate, and I am available to provide further clarifications on motives, reasons and arguments that have led to some changes. But in advance, I thank all those who will comment, because I believe that whatever political message we want to send, essentially we, regardless of what is once challenged by the TV camera, we certainly want to do well to the citizens of Serbia, and then that means well to this congregation, well to this body, to the highest legislative body. I thank you in advance and thank you for what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16133	Replica, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16134	First, Mr. Markovic, you showed a clear hand in the direction I was sitting, stating one detail about beer. No one on the board talked or talked about beer, but you cited in a number of examples, as you have cited here a number of examples. Among other things, that authentic story from the Committee, you added a story about the supermarket. It's simple to assume that it's either a nostalgia or a beer or that you're the boss of a supermarket. We're not employed here at the self-server's office, so if you say so, the manager hasn't come, you can't come in. There are very interesting examples of life that you have been instructed to do, but it has always been supported, as has this speech of yours, with the idea or intensity to get into Europe as soon as possible or to increase the efficiency of this Parliament. Among other things, we Serbian radicals have suggested that you introduce a new unit of measures, not to be the number of legal acts, but a "pound" of material per Member's head. It would most likely contribute to you stopping talking in the first person of the one. Looks like it's your party manners. That's how the first face of one, which means "ego" in Latin, became egotism. Don't spread that egoism in such a way that you always say, "I've highlighted the data, but you're all responsible." Of course, I'm not surprised, nor is this speech of yours, different from the one on the board of directors. It's been a long time since I've heard a demagogue speech like this. No one has ever presented this demagogue from this pay phone like you. You started comparing us to the supermarket, to the factory workers. Then you started a story – if we don't come at six o'clock in the morning, then there will be great consequences, primarily for you as a director or a self-serving chief, whatever you want! Who in this Serbia is more interested in this story? You bring the most restrictive Rules of Procedure in this House's history. And what was the right of MPs, you are now denying, with one clear explanation: "We want the equality of all MPs and their participation in public work, both in principle and in particular." What you have just confirmed yourself: that you are denying this change and supplementing it and that it has acquired the right to have the right to speak to the public both in principle and in the discussion of details! You make up for it, compensate the public by having the MP, thanks to your ego again, have the right 10 minutes on the board. And where will the public be present, will the committee sit directly, so that the public is familiar, or will the MP have an obligation, a silent rule to address your ego first, and then, if you are so painful or so human, to allow it to address the public? You can't justify it with anything but your goal is to meet your standard. Those comparisons or comparisons with the French parliament, that's what Dragan Martian presented here. The French Parliament has introduced a rule that at the level of the parliamentary group there is time, and that being a damaged individual - a MP, that doesn't matter! What have we come up with, what are the results, what are the consequences – this Parliament did not last two years?- I'm sorry. If the Martian had stayed, he wouldn't have stayed for a year! And you are introducing even more restrictive measures where you are taking and gaining the right of the Messengers! We hope by autumn you won't be waiting for the harvest!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16135	Here you go. Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16136	Someone could really misread the story I told about the beer. It's an anecdote. Just so it's clear to everyone: it's always a problem what you want to do and how clever we are, so we boast about it; and then I apologized. Indeed, in one beer factory our gaster came in, got a job, introduced him into the business of a man from our neighborhood, a German who already works there and said, "This is a complicated machine, it's a beer bar, but there are different positions, you have to walk around and check those positions all the time." And then he shows him how, and he says, "It's not much of a reception, it's 19 marks per hour, but in case, God forbid, when it breaks down, it's even less, then it's 15 marks per hour, and then you have to step away from the machine right now, move to this second part, sit there and drink beer and wait for the machine to fix, but you lose four stamps per hour." Our gaster, of course, went around, looked around, came back and said, "Listen, I understand, I know how to spoil it; I say, and what would spoil the machine; then he says, "I sit down and drink beer for 15 marks." The question is, what do we want? If we want the machine to work, the production to go, to strengthen the ground, then set the rules. You have to work all the time, move, check your positions. If you want to drink beer and get paid for it, you can be resourceful for it, but the country will get hurt. It is an anecdote that was told on the Administrative Committee and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat it, as I also thank the opportunity to remind myself that the Latin language also has a change in slopes and that in the spirit of that sentence, which should have been translated, it is not "ego" but "igo".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16137	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milan Markovic. Mr. Wolfie, on what basis are you answering? (Alexander Vukic, from the post: On behalf of the parliamentary group. I haven't arrived yet, because I have a report from the committee responsible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16138	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, you're an extremely good speaker, you're a very kind and funny man, and it's a pleasure to listen to you. I'm telling you the truth. You know that I respect you very much, but what I really think is a problem is your experience of the National Assembly and your work in the National Assembly. I don't know why this is funny to you, but I honestly think so. So, they answer to my remarks for an emergency procedure you say – but it was my wish. I say, yes, Mr. President, your wish is legitimate, it's a good wish, it's correct, there's no problem, we all have some wishes, the problem is that we can't allow ourselves to cross the frameworks that are given to us by regulations, laws, etc. So our wish is legitimate, but working towards a desire that exceeds the frameworks of the law is not legal, and in that we are obviously different in the idea of politics. That's why I think we've had serious problems in the past few months in this House. I do not dispute your good intentions, you have worked for the past year to ensure that this Parliament is adequate, but I believe that you lacked legal skills and perhaps a little better understanding of the reality in this House, in order to avoid some scandalous situations that we have had, which we will mention later in the debate, such as the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, etc. I'm not asking you to give me the answer to the part I mentioned, which is circumstances that could not be predicted. I do not dispute your wish, but I am glad that we have finally found the difference, that is, where we differ according to the work in Parliament and the state affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16139	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16140	That's exactly what we're different about. You must respect the law, this is Parliament, and first you have to say you respect the law, but then you're making further arguments. This proposal also clearly lists members who are changing, someone said they were not listed. It's just amazing that people don't read it all the way. Members who are being changed are listed. What's changing? Reason: legal reasons for an emergency procedure are given and this is a matter of self-respect. I respect the MPs, and I am starting from the fact that they read it, but that their disembarkation is of a political nature and that it is said – I do not know how it is possible that an emergency procedure is sought, and I am giving an additional motive because this one is already satisfied. But I always say "I." You know why? Because honorable men bear personal responsibility. And if there's anything wrong with this proposal, I said, that's what I'm responsible for. For everything that's right, I thank everyone who helped make it right. The ones I'm different from, and I hope we're all different, so we're here to come up with something that's common and important to the citizens as a result of these differences in discussion. So, we're different because I support the responsibility of someone "personal" and there's no reason to hide behind someone we are -- and that's why I always say: I'm proposing this and I'm going to stand to the end in that position for everything I propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16141	Does he want a word from the committee responsible? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will be against amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, simply because it is an extremely restrictive act that further abolishs the rights of MPs, because the opposition is denied the right to a more thorough, more serious and powerful criticism of the ruling coalition, not only in the Serbian Parliament, but also in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about the draft Rules of Procedure here, so the debate is in principle. This proposal does not say that we will have the right once a month to ask some questions and get answers! That's what you'll say when the debate comes in detail and who knows who's going to vote unless you know in advance what it's going to look like. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, in order to make it clearer for citizens, not MPs, because MPs are usually familiar with internal acts, with such sublegal legal acts as the Rules of Procedure, this proposal removes further rights and Serbian citizens! That's what interests them most. So, the citizens of Serbia sent their representatives, that's the basic feature of so-called. Representatives or MPs' democracies, to this high house. They should represent their interests, and we hereby establish an absolute "no" control over the work of the people's representatives. How? Serbian citizens need to know that there is no more quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! So it is possible that there may be 10, 20 in the hall, including five MPs, or one MP, and that no one else is in the O.R. anymore, the Assembly continues to work most normally, because that is how the representatives of the government imagined it, because they have a lot of obligations. That's what I mean for all MPs, everyone who has local authority somewhere, and those who have boards in various companies, those who are CEOs in individual companies, so let them do the job. If they are not able to do the work of the Messenger of the people, let them not do it! The people of Serbia deserve to be represented by national representatives who want to work in this high house and who want to be here in this room. This, to gather you 20 or 30 – and now to look for a quorum you will see that there is no quorum, and most MPs are not even 50 in this room; I will not ask because I know how it will go in the future with 10 or 20 – so you will do anyway, it is a misrepresentation of Serbian citizens, it is an attempt to lower this high house and to say that it is in line with European practice. We heard at the Committee session that this was done in accordance with comparative and legal political practice. Tell us where and how it works, except where we have the "predictive" right. And I'll also tell you why it's significant "predictive" law, or "non-continental". Because in a completely different way, the system is divided by the authorities, they function differently, and the decisions of the board are incomparably more significant than we do, a completely different system of government. You're pushing for irresponsibility, insecureness, insolence, and I'd say insult to the citizens of Serbia, who chose their representatives who serve nothing. Now, to exorcise your logic to the end, Mr. President of the National Assembly, and all of you from the ruling coalition, so also the DSS, and the G17, and the SPS, and the NS and I don't know which other party is there, as you have imagined, and especially this story about the amendment. So, if it is true that it is possible that parliamentary groups have the right to declare themselves by having 10 minutes each, therefore, disproportionate to the number of MPs, why did we go to the elections. Why, for example, did the citizens of Serbia give 82 parliamentary mandates to the SRS, and 22 or 23 SPO, SPS or 34 G17, 37 DS! Which is why, when we'll all have the same time! Says the president of the National Assembly at the session, you have a debate on the principle that you have, I don't know, 94 minutes, and that parliamentary group has 36 minutes or something less. And I say, okay, people, if you add up, say, you have one serious law that 60 amendments have been filed on, and everyone wants to speak, because the amendments are extremely significant and the law is very important, 60 times 10 minutes, that's 600 minutes, or if the amendment is adopted, if you want, so it's 15 minutes, that's 900 minutes, then we're going to have about one 994 minutes, and the other 936 minutes. What's the difference? What's the difference? Why did we go to the election? Because of the choice of power, and the one who was 84 has no advantage over the one who is 22. Is that what this is all about? If that is the goal, you directly violate the will of the citizens of Serbia, and obviously, I do not know if that is the goal, it is quite clear and quite obvious that this is the result of the adoption of such a proposal. I'm sorry, we're not going to violate the will of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens wanted to give 82 parliamentary mandates to the SRS. That's what they wanted. They wanted to give 22 terms to another party, it doesn't matter which one. You can't identify us now, you absolutely can't! I don't care what happens on this committee or on that committee, it's a gentleman's agreement that's been reached, respected or disrespected. I'm interested in what's going to happen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That way you can't change things and we just can't accept it. I brought it here to warn you not to do so, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" of 20 February 2004, for those who do not read the Constitutional Court decisions. I'm going to read you just one part of that decision, it's very long, and it's about the question of relations with the MPs and whether they can all appear on the subject of the amendment. You will only listen to three sentences, and then I will give you a direct interpretation of what we have today in the Proposal for this Act. So, it's said (from the O.R.: suck); no, unfortunately, the political most common, and not the lame, never can the Constitutional Court be lame. Well, that might suck with you guys, 'cause you've got nothing to do with it. "by order of Article 33. Decisions 15/01 are prescribed a way of discussing the draft law in particular, so that the discussion is carried out in particular by the members to whom the amendments are submitted and the amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions. Only the applicant of the amendments may participate in the debate on particulars, i.e. if the amendment proposes several Members of Parliament, then the authorised representative of these Members of Parliament, the motion for acts, the rapporteur of the committee, the president, or the representative of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative of the Government. "We knew that and we had it as a decision. However, the Constitutional Court now says that it has found that there is no constitutional restriction and conditions for the representation of citizens and election units by the MP elected in that election unit, that the MP on the basis of the principle of representation participates in the process of proposing and adopting any legal act in the National Assembly, and also a law not proposed, that the MP may express his opinion on everything discussed in the National Assembly, and that the proposal for the law of the second legislator is made public. The contested provision is, according to the Constitutional Court, in disagreement with the provisions of the Constitution, etc. Now let me ask you, look, is this an act of constitution and law? I've made a precise calculation, if it's like the draft Rules of Procedure, 10 minutes, the SRS MPs would have an average of seven seconds. At a seven-second time interval, does each MP have the opportunity to declare a certain amendment or not? If you explain to me how it's possible for us to do it within seven seconds, we do it, then I'll tell you right you are. If that's not possible, and it's not possible, then let's end the National Assembly! What do we need 84, 82 MPs, what do we need 125, 300, 200 MPs, as many as you want, anyway? We can have five MPs, who will raise the paper on which to write the number of actions or the number of MPs that can be managed by God, and that is how it is voted. Then why do we need representatives of the people? What do we need MPs for anyway? This is the point, this is the point. It's the same as what we call the Federal Assembly, although it's not federal, because it's not a federal state, it's a confederation, a union, some hybrid form, anyway. That's the point. Don't make us represent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - I don't care what the parliamentary groups think! It must be possible for MPs to make every statement about the amendment. As you have brought to this proposal, we, or MPs of the SRS, have no opportunity to plead. Maybe those who have 20 MPs can plead in 10 minutes, half a minute, and since they're 22, 23, then a little less than half a minute. Excuse me, we have seven seconds. What do you mean? In what way? We cannot vote for this proposal, it is restrictive, it is bad, it abolishes the right of the opposition, and especially the largest political party, i.e. The SRS, and it looks like it's all been made, right, against the MPs of the SRS. It is our responsibility to point out to you that our struggle in this House will not prevent it. I am confident, and I am ending the first ten minutes, thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman, we will, to be sure, continue to fight in accordance with the interests of the citizens in the future. After all, I believe Natasha Kandic is a long time ago in prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16143	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Assembly, the DS cannot support these changes to the Rules of Procedure. The DS Parliament Club is fully aware of the need to improve the efficiency of the work of the Assembly, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should adopt a large number of laws and other general legal acts that will bring our legal system into line with the legal system of the European Union, because after obtaining a positive assessment of the feasibility study, or the feasibility studies, we are entering the negotiation system with this association. One of the most important elements of our country's accession to the European Union is, as I said, bringing common legal acts into line with what exists as a legal system. In our deep conviction, however, it is not possible to improve the efficiency of the work of the congregation in this way. In such rules of Parliament's work, unfortunately, the sessions do not begin when scheduled, but several hours later, so it happens that a large number of laws, which are held in the assembly of individual sessions, are broken down by the fact that this Parliament has worked several times to the night or early in the morning, which is also one of the ways or ways to essentially disable the debate on legislative proposals. Parliament can work more effectively if those who need to dictate the work of this parliament, which is the parliamentary majority, have the power and the ability to provide enough MPs in this assembly for the assembly to work. On the other hand, to allow opposition MPs to present all their views, beliefs, proposals and to allow each MP to give an argument to all of this. So, if this congregation had started working at 10.00 in the morning and had been respected full-time, as this could have happened, there would have been much less trouble here. The parliamentary majority would have far fewer needs to reach for a reduction in the working quorum and, in fact, to create a situation where this assembly doesn't have to have any quorum at all to work. The arguments presented at the hearing on the Administrative Committee are true, and here they will certainly be presented to MPs and the public, that in different European parliaments a solution is similar to what is proposed in the amendment and addition of this Rules of Procedure. No precedent will happen if the proposal gets a majority, but I want to point out something that is different in Serbia compared to the political opportunities in Germany, Italy, Greece or other countries where the quorum for the work of the assembly is smaller than what is the current quorum for the work of the Serbian Parliament. Trust in this parliament is below 5% if I am not mistaken. So less than every twenty Serbian citizen believes this parliament should be given trust. I just want to say in a few steps what I think has led to the collapse of the confidence and faith of Serbian citizens in this assembly. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the government that has been established and elected in this assembly by the parliamentary majority, has reached a preliminary conclusion that ministers and prime ministers are increasing profits. The conclusion turned out to be unconstitutional, the Constitutional Court of Serbia ruled. When the conclusion was reached, Finance Minister Mr Dinkic sent a recommendation to the assembly that MPs should increase their profits. With strong opposition from the DS, with strong opposition from some other participants in this House, with opposition that has been established in all acts, followed by the work of the Administrative Committee and this assembly, the parliamentary majority decided to increase lawmakers' earnings. We have come to the point that today in the congregation, three or four times the salary of one MP is higher than that of a neurosurgeon, and four or five times the salary of a teacher or a teacher. These are common knowledge, but we are talking about the trust that Serbian citizens have in this assembly. Serbian citizens have suffered a major blow to the parliamentary majority's decision on profits, and what is the message sent by the National Assembly if it adopts changes and additions to this Rules of Procedure. It is touching, Mr. President, the energy you have invested to explain that this is due to the need to increase efficiency, but anyone who follows the work of this assembly, and a large number or almost all of the full-time citizens do so, amend and supplement this Rules of Procedure will experience in a way that, practically, no longer needs MPs to appear in this assembly to get the conditions for this Parliament to work. So, in the morning here between 10 and 11 hours there should be 84 MPs and after that – where my dear ones are. I don't know if the MPs will be on board or doing other things, but it's a picture this parliament is sending about itself. This is the difference that exists in Serbia's political life compared to political life in Germany, Italy and other countries, where parliament doesn't need so many MPs to be able to hold sessions uninterrupted. So it's about trust. Such a decision, in my deep conviction, will bring this assembly not to 4 or 5% confidence, but will completely erase the confidence of any citizen of Serbia in what this parliament is doing, and that is also, in my deep conviction, something that is not of national interest. Because if people do not believe in institutions, if citizens do not believe that the state is working in their interest, this parliament is the most representative political body in Serbia, then I think we will have great difficulties with Serbia's accession to the European Union, and with the harmonisation of our legal system with the European Union system, and with the harmonisation of our overall political and public life with what should be to make Serbia a place of decent living. I want to point to at least two provisions that I think are on the other side of the constitution. That's what we're talking about here. I think that in Article 136, when the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is governed by the conduct of amendments, where each parliamentary group is given 10 or, if adopted, 15 minutes, which is one amendment, so for a debate under one amendment, I think the right of equality will be violated, and I think that the Constitutional Court will have a negative position, because that provision will certainly be subject to the assessment of constitutionality. It has already been said here that, not so long ago, the Constitutional Court was second, not like this, but a provision that had some similar meaning had been designated against the constitution, put out of force, so that each of the MPs had been able to plead on each amendment. In my opinion, it has a similar meaning to Article 137. The Rules of Procedure which allow, or pardon, this was Article 137, and otherwise Article 136 regulates the right to submit amendments following the completion of the principled debate and the principled search. So I was talking about Article 137, and now I'm talking about Article 136. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure gave the Committee the right to propose an amendment, when within 24 hours, the Assembly is at rest, between the completion of the principle debate and the start of the discussion in particular. I don't think that provision is constitutional either, because the board can't have any right that doesn't have each individual MP. So, if you can do more, you can do less, and that's one of the fundamental legal principles. If an MP can propose a law, so long before the MP can always submit an amendment, so long before the MP can and must have the right to discuss each individual amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16145	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16146	Thank you so much for the remarks I've heard. It becomes one more thing for me, but now together with all of you, clearly where are the possible misunderstandings in interpreting the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. But before we split the subject. Because I really come from the economy, as Mr. Mircic wanted to say, I love what people do, so I respect what they say, I do everything in my power to establish clear rules and people to make their views known, but I respect what they stand behind and what they publicly represent in the session. I see there's a whole series of misunderstandings, and here they even mention wages, which is not in any way arranged by the Rules of Procedure. I understand if it's necessary for one of the next sessions, and I'm standing at your disposal, as well as the professional service, to present to you the data as far as it comes, how much money he's raised on that basis. It is, after all, an obligation under the law on the availability of information. Just as I expect all those who, representing one to me, are very clear and understandable political attitudes and explaining that half of their incomes will be given to someone, to show the public who they gave it to. I didn't talk about it, but I'm ready to show you where my receipts go. It's very important that we be consistent, because it's been talked about more than once. You're absolutely right when you talk about trust in institutions. There's no trust in institutions, that's what it's all about. When we entered this assembly, the agency you quoted, which she measured and said, trust in the Serbian Parliament was 4.5% in May 2005, it was the same agency that measured it in December 2003, and she said it was 1.6% trust in the National Assembly. That's how things change. On the one hand, that's what it is: statistics on our Dick. We can say: it's terrible, only 4.5% believes in the Serbian Parliament; and we can say: it's great, three times as many people today believe in this call as in the previous one. Why is that? I don't know. But I suppose it affects the way you all here represent your own parties, but also your constituents. That is why, of course, it was necessary when you change, when you change your Rules of Procedure, to take care of what results are achieved, and what results can be presented. The truth is, the picture of parliament is different, it has been built in other countries for years. No one answered the question I asked in the conversations we had in the last two months. Whenever said, for God's sakes, an MP in France, many of you know that, is someone on the highest possible scale of social values. He's, of course, paid for it. He enjoys such a reputation. My opposition was, and why, because we want to, we don't introduce those standards that are in those countries, that in the same way it works, that it leaves time for it to report to those who chose it, to allow it to really affect the law, not to take care of what the current picture is, but to change that picture? That's why here are the suggestions, where every day from 10.00 to 1800 hours is allowed to speak to the public, to make your arguments, all of us to each other, but of course you often don't see a product coming. Excuse me, please, about the success of a company, you can't make a serious conclusion based on how she equipped the window, and otherwise you don't see how this product is made, how hard it is, how hard it is for people to do it, how poorly they're paid to get there. This change is made possible, it should be said openly, that all MPs are coming to the opportunity, and I deeply believe that they want to take advantage of that opportunity, to work actively, although they will not be actively seen in it; instead of the situation that we now have: here is a great camera showing the work. And what do people do after 15.00 hours? Can they use computers, can they use an expert associate from here, can they check in parallel how it's settled in some other laws, so that because of their citizens, because of their voters, they can fix something and insist on some amendment? I can't. So it's a fake painting. People sit here in benches. You know very well how close it is to you. You have to read the paper. I keep saying, when the door is open, you can see from this place where Mr. Mihailovic sits, one normally built man, I'm tiny, easy for me, a normally built messenger, when he crosses his leg, the whole line moves. There's no picture of it in public. You just see that there are some shifts. You get the impression people don't work. This further collapses parliament. What is the purpose of the destruction of parliament? To summon another model of power, dictatorship. There must be ways for MPs to work, influence, and, of course, in an adequate way to represent, but not only to represent their own policy, but above all, the goal of affecting laws to change and to be as high-quality as possible. I believe that after this debate, most MPs will be, and I will certainly, as I have done so far, respect the decision of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16147	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one objection to the chairman. I expected him to ask the president of the National Assembly to explain what he meant when he spoke about the destruction of Parliament and parliamentaryism and when he talked about someone's desire to establish a dictatorship? This is because of Serbian citizens, because they were only two predecessors, so two previous speakers compared to what Mr Markovic said. I was one of them. Mr Markovic, the first thing I asked for is that all MPs have the same right and that's all we care about. Which one of us wants to tear down Parliament, who wants to seduce the dictatorship?- I'm sorry. At all times, we respected all election results, the will of the people from day one to day. This is where we behave in a perfectly correct way. I haven't heard from you either that you have major objections or that we are in some special way disturbing you, or that we are interrupting you. Where did you see that, because we're against this proposal from the Rules of Procedure, that someone wants a dictatorship in any other way? If you're not, then tell us. You told me about someone. Someone will. I don't know what the trick is. Who wants a dictatorship? I think the dictatorship's over. I think that the dictatorships since 1989 and 1990, when we had the first multiparty elections, no one thinks, but thinks about how to gain the favor of most Serbian citizens and that they can rule, as well as implement their programme in action. I think that's the question we all agree on here. As far as we are concerned in the Serbian Radical Party, I have a key question for you, I will later ask you a question concerning the part of your presentation to ask the ministers how we will have a more successful control over the government than we have so far. I'll put that in my second statement. Now I have a key question for you, which is, how is the Serbian Radical Party MP, who has 7.5 seconds to talk about a proposal for someone's amendment? Math is inexorable. Absolutely correct, 7.5 seconds. Ten minutes times 60 seconds is 600 seconds, divide by 82, and you're going to get 7.5 seconds around. How can this MP, or the 20,000 citizens, who voted for one MP, be represented by one amendment at a period of 7.5 seconds? There's no big philosophy here. It's as pure as tears. I ask of you, and we asked on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party at the Committee's session, if we can for that time, in 7.5 seconds, or if you tell me it's possible, I believe you, but then let everyone else have 7.5 seconds. Then let the ban on the Socialist Party of Serbia be three minutes, the G17 three minutes and 45 seconds, the Democratic Party four minutes and 20 seconds. Let them all have the same right, not for MPs to be presented differently in this high house. That's quite clear. There's no big philosophy here. The Constitutional Court points to that. You will see, we do not want to speak in advance, but if the Constitutional Court once ceases to be a political court and is the Constitutional Court in accordance with its previous decisions, it will have to declare this provision absolutely unconstitutional. I don't think there's a rational and reasonable answer to that. I'll be done in 20 seconds. I heard your statement saying, "But there's no point in being represented by the parliamentary group, to be represented by an opinion." No, he has to be represented by an MP. You've assigned us 7.5 seconds per MP. So says the Serbian Constitution, the highest legal act, according to the Constitutional Court and there is no further game, there is no further story. That's the essential question. Please make it clear and define what you meant when you said it or here you made that claim about dictatorship. I apologize for taking more time. I'm sorry, I think Natasha Kandic was a place in prison a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16149	I thank Mr. Wolf. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16150	I guess that was the moment I spoke to you, Mr. Wolfie, so you probably didn't know what it was about. Of course it doesn't apply to you and Mr Petrovic's exposure. That way I never communicate with MPs. There was talk of how and why a picture of trust is created and pictures of public opinion, what the goals are. So whoever might have thought I believed that someone here advocated dictatorship with their behavior, of course I don't. Another thanks, Mr Petrovic, for the constitutionality of a provision. I'll check it out one more time. I think you're on to something I've been suspicious about, too, but we'll check it out. Thank you very much. I've notified everyone, as a proponent, that the debate by the parliamentary group is for every amendment – 15 minutes. Well done, very vise, brilliantly calculated how many seconds a Member belongs to. But that's where I was talking about the goal. In the same way, we say that all citizens, and everyone who is employed, will buy some GSP cards, get on the bus; they are denied the right. 450,000 people live in New Belgrade, how do they get on a bus? Simply by respecting each other, respecting the rules of the game, the rules of traffic, and entering as many as they can stand. I respect every MP and do not go from the situation as possible to the principle of a law – and now we have such a Rules of Procedure, I have found him, I do not know who voted him – every member of the group, if we count like that, can speak for a minute and six seconds. It's quite a logical question, to such an intelligent and accurate calculation, as it is possible to speak in principle, let's say the Budget Law say everything in a minute; or, as repeatedly said, about complicated health laws. In principle, there's this ratio, so you say, if a parliamentary group that has 50 MPs speaks for 50 minutes, then the one who's 30 speaks for 30 minutes. I'm sorry, in principle it can be that way. This does not disrupt the efficiency of the Assembly, but it shows the size of one party. There's something else about the amendment. So the size is reflected in that all those who are more able to submit more amendments around these amendments can lobby more, but not sitting here, but where the laws really change. In the end, the question is, how many others do you respect? I respect every MP. I believe he's capable, one MP, of explaining the amendment in 15 minutes. It's not the law, it's the amendment. Also, I believe, if that is convincing enough, the MPs from other parliamentary groups will join it and the total time for one amendment will be, for example, in this conference, 185 minutes, if I have calculated correctly. So 185 minutes per amendment; if not, then maybe it's another goal. I think it's our goal that this amendment that we're proposing is not an amendment to talk about it, but to produce an effect. That way we can't add up, if that's the first goal. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, of course, the form requires the Constitutional Court, from the decision you have read, is satisfied. So, as with the principle debate, all MPs can formally do it here, but you know how – in the judiciary, there are so-called legal acts. ideal square. You have 50 heirs, and 30 squares, of course, we can't answer the question of how 50 of them live in 30 squares. But they're all owners of the ideal piece. The first three can't go in, take up 30 squares, and there's no room for the rest, but it has to be sold, or in some other way, to get to the way it's divisible. And here it is prescribed only a procedure, to come up with a way to convince the promoter or the majority of the Assembly that some amendment should vote. Thank you. It was a motive, and if that motive was wrong, if it was – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16151	I thank Mr. Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I kind of had a better parallel and metaphor today with beer and machines than with the bus and the sale of the Assembly, and I don't know what. I checked in with article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, particularly because I expect the President of the National Assembly to say that in some other place, rather than in this high house, it decides on amendments to the law, changes to the law. We don't think there's any other place to decide, I guess that's the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we would not have the sovereignty of our country as one to three, or today in the modern world four essential elements for the existence of a state. I'm guessing you didn't mean it. It probably came out. We think the Assembly should have an impact on the MPs, that we are fighting in the congregation. I'm about to take one declaration to the representatives of the other parliamentary groups. It concerns Republika Srpska and the exiled population and that I seek support, but I will work in this room. I don't see much philosophy, I don't know which other place is better than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Second, he is a funny, serious man, but I'm not smart enough to understand that metaphor with the city bus, with that GSB, unless you wanted to compare it to that bus from "Who's singing there," and his driver's a Mouse, so now we need to have it, so that's nice, so where we're going -- it doesn't matter. I don't think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should compare with the GSB. The GSB should make much progress and much more to change, above all, to root out corruption, so that it can reach a level to compare with the National Assembly, and then hardly to be able to make such a clear, loud and public sort of comparison. Simply, the National Assembly should still be far above and ahead of any public enterprise, which is in front of city traffic. I am convinced, I am quite sure that you know that Serbia is going forward, that Serbia will have to go into a better future, because it can hardly go worse, it can hardly go up after all that Serbian citizens have experienced. I hope these metaphors of yours will be used in the proposal of some other laws, because this proposal to amend and supplement this sublegal legal act is so bad that your good metaphors, and your humor, which usually makes sense, cannot be expressed, or is not shown in the best light. I think this country has a lot more to do than bring a restrictive Rules of Procedure, to bring restrictive norms, to which it will restrict the rights of MPs. And when you talk about the ideal, the square of the circle, about how we have the ideal 7.5 seconds, the MP is not ideal, when you're talking about, let's say, the legal institute, what is the co-ownership, in which this "real ideal" part is the most different. So, the MP is realistic and it can happen that every MP wants to come up with an amendment, and then he is realistically and ideally available for 7.5 seconds, and in 7.5 seconds he cannot represent the citizens of Serbia, he cannot present his idea, he cannot go out and say his name, he can only say one sentence, and that is that Natasha Kandic is a place in prison!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16153	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16154	It's quite clear what I'm talking about. I never compare the National Assembly, but I'm saying that this kind of a dilemma would look like this kind of dilemma. That's quite clear. I remind you once again: a dilemma about whether 450,000 people can get on a bus – they can't. If we say: let's make it a little bigger bus – it can't. But if smaller buses come across regularly, people will translate. So here the same question was how can a real MP say all about the amendment in a few seconds. That's not what I'm saying. That's not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. It's just that you've set up a clear dilemma, but there are clear dilemmas in life and there are clear possibilities. Most citizens of this country know that they can't put an end to the end, compared to the real need of a child, the real need of parents, mothers, but they're making a good schedule. So we have families that manage to make good schedules with 20,000 and that don't work, but 20,000 still isn't enough. As good as it works for all those who don't receive 20,000, and only the majority of them in this country are not enough as they schedule. We must act as citizens who chose us and look for a way to schedule available time, and make as many laws as possible, to contribute as much to our common home – Serbia, not to insist at all costs on the divisions. You have shown that you can do it so far, and I thank everyone for it once again, and I do not want these metaphors to hurt anyone, but just to explain what we all faced when we discussed how to strengthen the rights of Members, and to increase the efficiency of the Assembly. I say once again, we've all talked about this in our desire, first of all, to see if consensus is possible, and after a clear statement that consensus is not possible for political reasons, because different messages are being sent. But it is very important that this congregation adopt a new Rules of Procedure that will enable you to work, which you can be content with. During the first six months of this year, work is identical to the most efficient work of the previous call in a year, but you cannot be satisfied, because only for the start of negotiations, which was recently discussed by the president of a parliamentary group, so many laws are needed. We, as responsible people, must find a way, with all the political differences, of course, to argue, but to find a way to do so, and to be a quality law and to be in the interest of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16155	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16156	Mr. Chairman, I've come out to criticize you. You have a Rules of Procedure, there is a member of the 100th and before him there are some members and I ask you to warn the promoter of this decision to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, not to make a joke here with some buses, some spaces, mathematics how to fit more into less etc. It's not on the agenda. And to focus this debate on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that are changing, because here we have a papaziania. It came from the popularity of the National Assembly. Of course, the popularity of the National Assembly is at a low level when laws are forged in the National Assembly itself. Of course, the popularity of the Assembly is low when instead of 10.00 it leaves at 11.00, 12.00, and sometimes it doesn't start the day it's scheduled. Of course, when committees are scheduled by phone and committee presidents do not attend board meetings, of course the popularity of the National Assembly is low. Secondly, the National Assembly lost its significance at the moment when it did not become the main topic in Serbia what is being said in the National Assembly, but what is being said in the towers, in the halls, where journalists run to take a statement about an event that has little to do with what is happening in the National Assembly. Of course, all the serious political parties insist that the Rules of Procedure look like something, to ensure the normal work of the legislator and to strip their politics in this room, not B-92, in the attitudes of NGOs and those of Natasa Kandic who have not yet been arrested, but who will be, or elsewhere. It's a mission, but the promoter missed the point. He has just gone to meet NGOs, who want to divorce the work of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly becomes a marginalist, that everything and everything happens. Furthermore, no one has told us what the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly is. Is the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly if the Government changes its law four times in a year and a half? Look at the agenda of tomorrow's session: it's half the laws that we passed last year, where the government didn't accept the opposition's objections, and now it changes its laws that it passed last year. What efficiency are we talking about? Let the promoter come out and explain what is an effective work of the National Assembly, which does not endanger the rights of MPs to discuss and to represent citizens in the National Assembly. We haven't heard it from the promoter, we're hearing some hyperboles, some comparisons here, something that should entertain the audience following this TV broadcast. So I ask you to warn the future representative of the motionary. He, as president of the National Assembly and as an MP who has proposed these amendments, must know the Rules of Procedure and must represent what is in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16157	Mr. Krasic, I'll do anything, I thought we'd move on to the debate, but Mr. Mircic wants to see the Rules of Procedure, and I have to respect his desire to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16158	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Namely, the speaker in the image of the president of the assembly comes out several times and whenever he talks about his proposal. Why? Because he himself points out how he made this proposal, he makes some inappropriate comparisons. It tells us a story of poverty, of small incomes from workers, of the situation in Serbia. At the very least, it would be correct for at least once, as he came out on several occasions, to say what his role is in the situation in Serbia. He is just one of the key figures, the leading figures of this ruling coalition. What are the more comparisons and calls for a general situation in terms of economy and the situation of Serbian citizens? There is no change in the Rules of Procedure. They will not increase their standards if this rules of procedure changes, their situation will not improve any changes to this Rules of Procedure if we bring them, especially those restrictive, where it cannot or is almost impossible for most Serbia to hear from this pay phone. The fact that, along with a whole series of examples, an example of efficiency, here is the best experience of previous power. And their intention was to increase efficiency. Then we came into an absurd situation that it was then announced that this assembly could be a virtual parliament, a parliament where you won't even have to attend, you won't have to be in Serbia's territory, you'll be able to vote remotely, on the internet. Here's what this is, but it's just the opening of that proposal or the announcement earlier, you'll be able to vote with a card, so you can give the card to both a rope member or a wider family member and vote. It doesn't have to be 84 MPs. The fact that the president, or promoter here, always mentions that he will adopt the amendments, and I suppose it is also necessary to make the majority known in this assembly. The basic proposal is that no MPs must be present in this congregation anymore. The basic proposal clearly states that on committees, working bodies do not need to be quorum. The proposal aims to simply make Parliament's work of work even more worthless. This depraved, saddened Serbia, with a parliament like this, there is simply no other way out, but not only to break up with such excruciating and unfair debates, but rather to discuss elections in this Serbia, to understand once that the majority mood is a democratic mood in this Serbia. You will not have any restrictive provisions in the Rules of Procedure, which will be written to you tomorrow by the Serbian Radicals, and the sooner you call the elections, the sooner you will have the chance to act, work and see how parliamentary life is going in Serbia that has tradition in it. It's not you who brought democracy, it's not you who brought parliamentaryism into this Serbia. He exists earlier. It is a tradition of Serbia, except you persistently deny it, interrupt it and want to subdue it to yourself and your party interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16159	Just to ask, are you asking to vote on Article 100's injury? All right, I'm asking the service to record a motion for an infringement of article 100, so that the Assembly can plead in the voting day. The word has the head of the DSS Parliament Club, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16160	When it comes to such a proposal for an act, the DSS is of the opinion that it is best to adopt it by consensus of the National Assembly, because there are rules on the work of the National Assembly concerning all MPs. The DSS does not stand in the view that MPs should, in that sense, be divided into positions and opposition, the MPs of one or another political party. Therefore, when the idea came, of course, because as part of the ruling coalition we have the responsibility to pass laws, above all those who make up the ruling coalition for the adoption of such acts, we have talked to our coalition partners so that it would certainly be good to involve all the heads of Parliament's groups in the National Assembly in talks on the adoption of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure; in this way to contribute to the adoption of such an act by consensus or by a vast majority in the National Assembly and thus to satisfy something that would be of interest to the non-government coalition in Serbia, but to the National Assembly in general, and thus to achieve that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be an act which can be used in severally convened by the National Assembly, regardless of who will act as a ruling coalition. Those conversations were conducted. During these talks, attention was drawn from some initial text which Mr Predrag Markovic, the MP and the president of the National Assembly, was kind enough to present to us. So, there have been appropriate remarks, and what I must do here, truth be told, to say that most of these remarks were later incorporated into the proposal of the text offered by Mr Predrag Markovic. One part of these remarks was incorporated by the fact that a number of amendments Mr Predrag Markovic accepted on the Administrative Committee, one part of those remarks, which had been heard earlier in our meetings, had not been accepted until today. It's just that there are a few questions left to hang in the air. One of these issues is the question of how the presence of MPs in the National Assembly is recorded, and precisely because of the very sensitive provision and the DSS, it also drew attention to today's formal proposal that it is necessary to process this provision well and pay attention to its meaning. So today we are able to find out, thanks to what Mr Predrag Markovic has noticed so far, I am talking about the text in general, not the initial proposal that has been introduced under a certain number, but what has been accepted today, that we have a text in which there are not many flaws. What we have heard today as a grudge against this text that lies ahead of us, including a number of amendments accepted on the Committee by the President of the National Assembly, Predrag Markovic, we today hear some of these remarks practically for the first time, and certain solutions contained in this text have been proposed at meetings attended by the heads of individual parliamentary groups, which are today against these solutions, specifically when it comes to limiting discussion in particular. I don't mean Mr. Petrovic. Therefore, it is clear who remains, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who first proposed it at our meeting. That's true. We can call Mr. Nikolic, so we can cross these arguments and see what's true. Whether this is a good solution or not is a question and the remark heard in relation to this solution is, when we talk about it, one of the most serious remarks that could be heard today in relation to the redistribution of time in the discussion after the amendment. However, those who make those remarks overlook one circumstance, when it comes to the debate in principle in the National Assembly, it is not expressed by the size of the parliamentary group, as it is a proposal for an act spoken in principle. Indeed, it would be inappropriate for a large parliamentary group that has 82 MPs to speak at the same time and has the same time as a parliamentary group that has 22 MPs. Yes, that argument logically stands in one piece. When it comes to amendments, it is lost sight of something else, that large parliamentary groups, given the number of MPs, also have certain rights by nature of things, by the nature of the number itself, which other groups do not have and are not in a position to use. It's just the submission of a total number of amendments to individual laws. So that's something that's a compensatory element. I'm not saying you can't talk about this. I'm not saying that there can be no discussion about this issue, less or more of the successful dispute resolutions that have been given, but it's also the fact that someone has not given a serious amendment to this issue so far. We don't have him today in the debate on this Rules of Procedure, and all the time, at least we at the DSS insisted that this act be corrected with our mutual facts and conversations. So two or three days ago, we learned that the possibility of consensus on this issue has been completely excluded, and today we have a sharp opposition to this act. What will leave us calm about whether or not we will vote for this proposal – of course, voting with certain amendments or, let's say, without these amendments becoming an integral part of the text in the meantime. So that's the fact that indeed most of the things that are said here in terms of violations, first of all, opposition MPs' rights, are Colloquial, or if it's about some other provisions, they don't stand here. We have a significant improvement in the quality of the committee's work, for what are the precision of their responsibilities. We have an important improvement that has occurred in this way by separating the debate in principle in the physical sense of time from the debate in particular, so that the text of the law can be improved in the meantime. We have a realisation of the work of the National Assembly in the work relating to the beginning of the session and the presence of the MPs, which, however, is different here than before, but with a very clear consequence affecting all MPs, regardless of which political party they belong, whether they are in the ruling coalition or not. Simply, the work of the National Assembly must begin on time, with certain conditions, and this condition is the condition of obtaining and paying travel expenses and living expenses in this congregation. We have developed categories of parliamentary issues, this time in a decadent and different way is resolved, and it can be discussed, and the act we bring today or if we adopt it tomorrow is unchangeable. It can continue to be improved according to all the remarks we have heard, and in line with the remarks we will hear today and which we have heard so far, from opposition members. I can only say that I'm very sorry that we haven't been able to bring this act by consensus. It is my deep belief that those provisions that we are making today are not so natural that they are in any way insulting the rights of the MPs of the people. When I talk about it, I'm talking about all the MPs in the National Assembly. If we've made a mistake somewhere and made a provision or come up with an idea to come up with a provision that will in practice prove to be a bad solution, there's always a possibility that this story of consensus can be repeated, that some other time, in September or later, we can fix the act. But we're doing this out of deep belief that we're not doing anything with what we're being distracted about here. So I'm really asking you to see if it's still possible to look at some amendments. The promoter has accepted, and let's see if in its total terms this act, which is brought here, is a damage to the National Assembly or to the improvement of its work. We are deeply convinced that it represents a certain possibility to improve the efficiency of work in the National Assembly, the quality of work, especially according to the amendments, and that it would be good to adopt such an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16161	Are any of the heads of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miloljub Albianic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is what is the work of the Assembly in this assembly assembly. The impression is that the work of the Assembly has been improved, we do not have certain institutional injuries that were in previous councils. The opposition participates in the work of the Assembly Committees. The presidents of individual committees are also representatives of the opposition. In this way, the work of the congregation committees is promoted, giving the impression of work in general. Also, in the congregation hall itself, the atmosphere has changed to some extent compared to the atmospheres that ruled in previous periods. The president of the assembly also introduced a better atmosphere into the assembly hall with his authority. He introduced a certain spirit of tolerance and respect. I am given the opportunity, since the G17 parliamentary group plus for the first time in this call of the Serbian Parliament, to commend the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and I believe that with their professional qualities, moral values, responsible work have affected to a certain extent the work of the Assembly. Also, in the G17 Plus parliamentary group, there is, and beyond the legislative regulations, 30% of women in the Parliament club itself, which further represents the quality of the work of the parliamentary group. Of course, in order not to selectively praise, I also commend other parliamentary groups, for certainly promoting work is not enough for one parliamentary group, but for mutual agreement and mutual respect for each other. The changes in the congregation’s rules of procedure took place in several steps. First, on the basis of a good assessment of Parliament's work in a positive assessment of the feasibility study, the second is based on OSCE recommendations, and the third is based on a meeting of the heads of parliament and mutually agreed on what and how should be changed to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In front of the G17 plus I will highlight some of the basic and most important things that have been changed in the Rules of Procedure itself. One, it is the presence of Members of Parliament at the beginning of the working day and the activities of the Members of Parliament during the working day. I'll tell you, since I've heard different estimates about how it is in the environment, I'm going to quote a few rules from several parliaments in Europe, and it refers to quorum and presence at the beginning of the session or at the sitting itself. The European Parliament, Rule 149, says, under one, parliament can sit and adopt agendas and adopt minutes regardless of the number of members present. Two, quorum exists when one-third of the members of parliament are present in the House of Representatives, i.e. building a parliament. France, Rule 61 – The Assembly may sit and establish the agenda regardless of the number of Members present. Italy, Rule 46, point 2 - MPs engaged in activities outside the parliament building, to which they are delegated by parliament, or MPs who are members of the Government, who are absent for the reasons of their service, should be included as present for the purpose of establishing the quorum. Germany, Rule 46 – The Quorum of Bundestag exists when more than half of its members are present in the building, etc. So, I think that, in an appropriate way, amendments have been introduced to the rule of presence at the beginning of the working day and during the working day and in this way, in fact, MPs are given the right to exercise their parliamentary duty in a normal manner, with the possibility of professional participation in the work of the committee and, if you will, the admission of citizens and all other activities that the MP has to carry out. Two, as regards discussions in particulars or amendments, it is good to separate it from the principle of debate and there is a good proposal to pass 24 hours after the principle debate is concluded until the debate begins in particular. The second provision is that we have ten, i.e. under the amendment 15 minutes per parliamentary group for each amendment. So this is about the minutes per amendment for the parliamentary group. And it is certainly clear to all of us in this house that the most amendments by nature of things are proposed by the opposition, and therefore the most time will be spent to discuss the amendments. I have not heard that the change has been well praised – a day for parliamentary questions and ministers' answers, because it is very important and it is, above all, a date for the opposition, because that day will certainly be used to ask the relevant questions and to get answers from the relevant ministries and ministers personally. Therefore, it is something new in the Rules of Procedure, which certainly improves the work of parliament itself. The results of the amended new Rules of Procedure will be very soon visible. In front of the G17 plus parliamentary group, I will point out this: under one, responsibility for all MPs individually, responsibility for the heads of the parliamentary groups, deputy heads of the parliamentary groups and additional responsibility for the president of the assembly. For all MPs individually because they will have to, in addition to their right to perform their duties, have the responsibility to do these duties, because every day MPs will have a schedule of their activities, what they have to do in the Assembly Hall, what in the Assembly Committees, what in MPial rooms, of all the issues they have to do. Secondly, for the heads and deputies of the parliamentary groups, it will be one additional responsibility, to follow a whole series of activities that are happening in the Assembly Hall, which in committees, which in the MPial rooms, make appropriate schedules and at any moment know where the MP performs his duty that day. For the speaker of the assembly, too, additional responsibility, as the assembly will work from 10.00 in the morning to 18:00 in the afternoon without interruption. In this sense, the President of the Assembly has more obligations and responsibilities to sit behind the presidency and a whole series of other things to provide technical support (and I will already say something about it), as well as on the work of professional services, additional activities for which he will be responsible. As for G17 plus, the result of the application of the Rules of Procedure will certainly be efficiency. Serbia's assembly will work longer in this regard. Serbia's assembly will work more, and that produces two things. One, the way I work for the MPs is improved. Secondly, there is a reasonable assumption that the quality of the laws passed will be even better. It is understood that we boasted, and we do, that last year we passed the most laws in the historic Serbian parliament. We will have to be on the European path every year to boast that we have passed the most laws in the history of the Serbian parliament. So the number of laws is one important fact, and the number of laws in the future will be increased. What is important to point out as a result of the application of the new Rules of Procedure, professional support needs to be improved. Professional support to parliamentary groups and professional support to assembly committees. Also, technical support is needed to be improved. You know well what conditions and how we live and work, as it seems, from this congregation hall...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16163	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16164	I'll be done soon. So, in terms of work, people only see for themselves when they come to visit on the day of the open door of a certain congregation room. It is also necessary to provide a way to record MPs at the entrance to the congregation building. It is necessary to improve support from several computers in MPs' clubs, it is necessary that more television screens are present in MPs' clubs, because by doing different types of jobs MPs will be able to monitor both assembly sessions and their order when they come to individual discussions or individual assembly committees. When we look at all of this and add it together, we see that the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure is approaching the work of the Serbian Parliament to parliaments and congregations in the region and Europe on the one hand. If we are on the European path, as we are, then we will certainly do the way we work and the way we do, and what we do, and we are the most legislative body, speed up Serbia's entry into the European Union as quickly as possible, because we will create a necessary system with the countries of the European Union, by making the laws and doing our jobs faster and more effectively here, all because of the better life of all our citizens of Serbia. I call on all MPs to support the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. G-17 plus will certainly vote for change.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16165	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS believes it is necessary to bring a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. The amendments and additions of the existing Rules of Procedure, which was brought in at the time of DOS authorities, are absolutely unsupervised work, because there is no correcting something that is wrongly set in the beginning. Absolutely, of course, unconstitutional and the SPS has repeatedly addressed it to the Constitutional Court, denying the right of MPs to speak, not only in the debate on amendments, but in the principle of debate. Also, we believe that some of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which were passed at the time of DOS authorities, are absolutely at a far lower level of democracy compared to the time that many here pesoriously call – the time of the SPS government. If anyone doesn't know, I'll quote to you the latest Rules of Procedure of the 1997 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this Rules of Procedure, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. So, for 10 years, the SPS government in this room was supposed to be 126 MPs at any time. We provided this, although we once did not have 126 MPs, but within the coalition government and with a minority government that supported another political party. Our MPs had other obligations at the time, but they had to attend meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in this Rules of Procedure and in the time many people speak of as pesoriatically, and their actions at a time when they were in power proved to be quite the opposite, it was said that the time of the presentation of the MP was 10 minutes. So every MP had the right to speak for 10 minutes, each without restrictions, and even had the right to report for the second time, when all those who wanted to do so first came forward for debate. Also, parliamentary issues were raised at every session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When this condition for the existence of a quorum has been lifted, one logical question asked by Predrag Markovic: if there is no 126 in the Assembly, then why is it important to be just as DOS said – 84? This is a thoughtless work of the National Assembly, because in every hunting society, every association or social organization, you cannot hold a session unless most of the total attendance is present. This could happen during DOS authorities, and thanks to this DOS rules of procedure, it could only be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, in principle, there is one thing that is also not well solved by this Rules of Procedure, which is: the obligation of television transmissions. Thank God, those transfers exist now. But it will always depend on whether there are technical conditions for television to transmit, whether it is economically profitable for television and, of course, will exist until there may be another chairman in this parliament, who will conclude something quite different, as it has been in the last few years compared to that historic date on October 5th. Also, we're at the beginning, when the policy change story began, we said that we think we should bring in a new rules of procedure. The entire Rules of Procedure that will define both the rights and obligations of MPs and, of course, the Rules of Procedure that will make congregation work effective. So unless our amendments are accepted, we cannot vote for this proposal offered by Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic. We've given a few amendments in order to try to improve something that's basically bad. The first amendment is about the number of days, so when the amendments are submitted. This proposal regulates the amendments to be submitted five days before the start of the session, i.e. in practice that the session is scheduled within a much shorter period than those defined by the Rules of Procedure. How can you make amendments to some law when you are informed that the session of the Assembly will be held in three days, and the deadline for the amendment is five days? We have proposed an amendment that this provision may exist, but that is an exception if the session of the National Assembly is scheduled within a shorter period than the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure. So, then it's time for the amendments to be submitted until the beginning of the principle debate on a single proposal for these acts. Also, we have proposed to be precise when asking parliamentary questions, that is, when the president of parliament is obliged to call for that session. On a proposal from the parliamentary group – yes, but there must be an obligation to be at least once a month. We've suggested that we prevent the president's will from working here on the night shift. It is not a problem whether the Assembly will work in exceptional cases, but if the exception becomes a rule, there must be a certain regulation for it. We have suggested that this work can take place after 18.00 hours only until the debate is concluded in principle, i.e. in detail on the starting point of the agenda and that Members should be informed of this extension no later than 16:00 a.m. on the day of the session, for which the extension of work is proposed. We have proposed, since this proposal was not envisaged, that amendments on committees could be replaced by other MPs, who are not members of the board; this is an explanation that the text "representatives of amendments" can be replaced by "as other MPs". All MPs have the right to attend and in some ways participate in the work of the committee, but you do not give them the right to discuss certain amendments. Our amendment corrects that. Also, we suggested that time be extended, which is why we are not happy to be introduced, but the Constitutional Court last time, when it considered the question of who had the right to talk about amendments, was not correct until the end. He did not declare an unconstitutional provision concerning the principle of debate, but then it became unconstitutional that someone had no right to speak about amendments, and it is perfectly normal and logical that he did not have the right to speak in the debate in principle each MP. So, we suggested that the time with 10 minutes extend to 15 minutes. Let me just say, without a desire for some controversy, the representatives of the Democratic Party, of course, expressed their opposition to these proposed changes here in terms of their opposition political position. I would remind you that at a time when they adopted this Rules of Procedure, only one representative of each parliamentary group could report for the debate on amendments. It seems to me that it was limited to five minutes. With what right now do they speak and criticize such solutions? We've suggested three times as much time as they've given in their time here in power. And finally, we would be the happiest if a new Rules of Procedure, in which there would be no restrictions and where there would be the possibility that all MPs would have the right to participate in the debate in principle and in particular, as was the time when we were in power. We're against the absolute removal of the working quorum. We insisted that the Socialist Party of Serbia change its position, that the proposing accept our amendments, and it is necessary that this amendment, which has been tabled by the president of parliament in accordance with our agreement, that the session cannot begin until one-third of the MPs are in the hall, is adopted. There must be obligations, above all, for the parliamentary majority to ensure the presence of one-third of the MPs at the beginning of the session. If the parliamentary majority is unable to secure it, then it should not exist. At the very end, I want to say that we are against the proposed Rules of Procedure. We will only vote for him if our amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16167	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, G17 Plus and the Socialist Party of Serbia. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Let MP Milan Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I must say that we, Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, were pleased to hear the outwitting of colleagues who spoke before us about this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have heard from a number of fellow Members of the People's Parliaments an outwitting on whether or not MPs' rights are reduced to these Rules of Procedure, whether the possibility of MPs being able to say what they want about any bill, amendments, simply whether the Rules of Procedure are restrictive or not. I must admit that after all that I have heard, and starting from our experience in the work of parliament since 1990, it means in these 15 years of the multi-party system in Serbia, and what was before in the years when the Socialists did most of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it can draw a simple conclusion: the more we talk about democracy, the more restrictive the Rules of Procedure and the more the right for MPs to speak. This Rules of Procedure is nothing epochal, nothing reformative, nothing democratic, nothing liberal. This is a Rules of Procedure which cannot be regarded as quality, but it is a product of time after October 5th, when, in the name of democracy, transparency, and I do not know what verbal values, which DOS then promoted, it has created a simple way to mark the reduction of the rights of MPs, if you will, of the basic right of MPs, which is the right of speech in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we are making amendments to a bad Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're not making any changes that could change in that bad Rules of Procedure. If one type of analogy was to be sought, or if a system was to be established, to time-limit the right of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to speak on a given subject, then this proposal should also contain a right to deny the applicant that he can speak indefinitely. There is no basis for this, if MPs are prevented by the contents of the Rules of Procedure from speaking as much as they would like, but at the point of the agenda it is contained in the five hours scheduled for discussion. This provides for a certain period of time to discuss amendments. I do not see why the proposer did not limit the right of the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or anyone else to act in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and represent the basics of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the time of speech. Of course, the best and most ideal is that Rules of Procedure which would constitute a consensus of all political parties, but some practice and experience show that this is difficult to come by in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After its initial wish, it resorts to an extremely simple means that is not accepted by all, which is simple, the congregation majority adopts a proposal for a Rules of Procedure, i.e. a Rules of Procedure that they consider to be good. Today we are discussing amendments to the Rules of Procedure which, according to its content, is not of quality. He is restrictive, evil for his messengers, and deprives the rights of the messengers. It is best seen when the contents of this Rules of Procedure are compared to what was the small constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 1990s and what the Socialist Party of those years predicted to the Rules of Procedure. In the 1990s, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia contained a provision under which the Assembly could not operate unless there were more than half of the total number of MPs. So the quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was 126 MPs and it always lasted. As much as that mattered, think only with the help of another comparison. It was then envisaged that after the debate was concluded in principle and in particular and in the vote on the proposal. Then all MPs had to be present objectively at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the entire period of work on one item of the agenda, i.e. by amendments, and actively participated. We now have a paradoxical situation to discuss one point in principle and in particular, and to hold a vote after about 15-20 days, so often it happens that even the promoter does not know exactly what the amendment contains, let alone the other MPs know. I think the larger presence of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be ensured when the proposal is predicted to be discussed in principle and in particular, a vote at the same time. At a time when the Socialists organised the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, each MP had the right to speak for 10 minutes, however many MPs wanted it. For example, if we took the current relationship of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS parliamentary group could speak 220 minutes, and only 26 minutes can this Rules of Procedure mean almost ten times less. It best speaks of the democratic character of that Rules of Procedure before compared to this one. There was a business opportunity, if one of the MPs felt that he did not adequately explain the draft law which was on the agenda, that he could get a word back, and that many of them, of course, with the consent of the president of the National Assembly. It says, in itself, what was the principle of work. We had, of course, the situation that the opposition at the time had practically obstructed parliament's work, but it was also an integral part of parliamentary work. We heard an interesting story today from colleagues who were in the '90s. For years, the MPs of the Republic of Serbia, that a book was read here for several hours and that it was the way parliament works. We had two laws in '90. year: one law on the transformation of "Politicals", when it was submitted to the bill over 2,000 amendments (seems to me in 1996 and 1997); the second was the Bill on Local Self-Government, when 1,350 amendments were submitted to the bill. This data I cited, these examples, best state how much the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in the 1990s. For years, there was a place where, by the MPs, there was talk about topics that were on the agenda, and in an unlimited period of time. Some MPs, however, have misused it, but it speaks more of them than of the congregation. Then we have a situation where that time is declared non-democratic, totalitarian, tyrannical, or I don't know which way, and then we get after the democratic changes in 2001, a Rules of Procedure that essentially reduces the rights of MPs. I must say that the SPS MPs, in relation to the Rules of Procedure which is now in force, have complained to the Constitutional Court, at several points. I only mention two: a time limit, the adoption of the right of MPs to discuss a bill only within the right of the parliamentary group, and our position was not accepted by the Constitutional Court; but another was accepted – that MPs could talk about an amendment that was on the agenda, because, unfortunately, it was also reduced. I mentioned this to make you understand what these changes carry in themselves. We SPS MPs are not satisfied with this proposal for a document, submitted by Mr Markovic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I asked Mr. Markovic to come forward as a proposal to make our amendments known, so we know what their fate is. If amendments to the motion for a decision, which Mr Zoran Angelkovic and I have made, are not accepted, neither will our parliamentary group vote for a proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are several amendments, but the essence is this: not to deny the rights of MPs, that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not abuse the business opportunity to extend parliament's work in the afternoon or in the evenings indefinitely. This regulates his right -- that he can possibly extend his time in the debate on some agenda point just until the debate on the point is over. That, of course, has to be announced, so MPs can plan their time. Of course, this possibility of extending the time for the amendment from three to five days. We have provided for the possibility, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for a shorter period of time, that this right can be used at the time of the proper submission of the amendments to the bill by the time the debate on the bill begins. We are pleased to submit the amendment, I must say on our initiative, Mr Markovic accepted, but I expect other amendments to be made publicly, that there is no need for one third of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be a condition for the start of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the right for the opposition to boycott parliament's work, that's their right, that's not at all questionable. I think that the majority of parliament should and must provide that third necessary for the work of parliament and that it is something that should simply be accepted as such. Perhaps the answer can be sought on the other hand, whether some MPs have more obligations than MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's one of the reasons why they don't attend the session and it affects the quorum. It is a question that every member of parliament must resolve within itself. It's simply a matter of Members' duties. In any case, this Rules of Procedure will not in itself, with these changes, represent anything revolutionary new. He will essentially help us to extend this parliament's work. Maybe it won't work for four or five hours, it'll only work for six hours, if we don't start at 10.00, we'll start at 11.00, and it'll work until 6:00. That's one hour compared to what we've had so far as practice. The work of parliament will certainly be extended. As for the discussion in detail, we'll see how things go. In any case, I say once again, I expect Mr Markovic to declare our proposals, on our amendments to this proposal for a decision. If Mr Markovic, as a proposing, accepts our amendments, the SPS MPs will vote in favour of this motion for a decision. Otherwise, our attitude will be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16169	The People's MP Milan Markovic has the word, and let the MP Istvan Ispanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16170	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask the chairman, if possible, to ensure the presence of the promoter - the president of the National Assembly of Predrag Markovic, because otherwise the question is raised which we are trying to convince in the solution we have proposed. We from the DS have already warned the ruling majority and Mr Markovic at the position of the National Assembly in the system of government in the Republic of Serbia. That is why we have suggested maximum caution not only when passing important system laws, but also when discussing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on how the work of the National Assembly will be arranged. Unfortunately, we must realise that in these 15 years, the multi-party system in Serbia has not suffered very much. We cannot say that we have essentially built parliamentaryism. On the other hand, it's hard to say that we've adopted one of those basic democratic civilization principles, which is the principle of sharing power. Taking into account this and realistically considering the state of today's parliament, we can say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is on the margins of political life in Serbia, both in its public reputation and in essence, by the decisions it makes and its importance in Serbia's political life. It is therefore very important to think about what kind of message we send to the public when we change the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and when we bring this National Assembly into the situation that it may be only three, five MPs here, or it does not matter, when it is not even the order of the agenda points, it will not be known when the Assembly does not work, whether the meeting is in progress, whether it is not in progress, whether the committees have worked, whether they have not worked etc. The fundamental question that is being asked here - what are the MPs doing? What is the key problem of this National Assembly? The key problem is what do MPs do for a salary of 70,000, 80,000 and other belongings of 100,000 dinars? Is it a problem for the MPs of the ruling majority to come to the National Assembly at 10.00 p.m.? Do you bring this Rules of Procedure because you can't get up so early? Do you think about citizens of Serbia who get up at 05.00 or 06.00 hours, work eight hours and get 15,000 dinars? That's the problem with this National Assembly. There's no story of efficiency here. Efficiency is achieved by work. If anyone wants to work, we do not need changes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before I move on to the story of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly itself, we here need to resolve the previous question, which is for which we are bringing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; is this Rules of Procedure brought to all MPs, or will it only apply to the MPs of the opposition? Are we all here together, especially you from the ruling coalition, adherents to the rule of law? Do you believe in democratic principles? Are you ready to bring the Rules of Procedure and stick to that Rules of Procedure tomorrow? I doubt that. You didn't follow the Rules of Procedure that is now in force. In proposing this Rules of Procedure, you have already deviated from the Rules of Procedure which are now in force. You can't justify that with good wishes. I am sorry that we have the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly who does not understand the state, does not understand the system of division of power, and does not understand the rights and obligations of the National Assembly and MPs who make up the assembly. Good wishes can't be justified by breaking the law. No political volunteerism can rule, we must have the rule of law. Why do I doubt the ability of this ruling majority and this National Assembly to adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that is now to be brought forward? Because you so knowingly gave up and violated the 199 decree. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and refused to discuss the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is there any MP of the ruling coalition, and I'm sorry that the President of Parliament is not here, he's the one I wanted to ask very directly... Have you come, Mr. President? So, does the president of the National Assembly get to go out for this pay phone and say that he is not a broken member of 199? Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He was knowingly violated by the ruling coalition. It was a political issue for the ruling coalition. The people who did this did not understand the deeper importance of the issue. The deeper importance of this issue is to violate the rule of law system. Infringement of the rule of law principle and promotion of policy that says – yes, everything is allowed in parliament. Our citizens have no opinion whatsoever of our Parliament. Who cares what happens in parliament. Let's make the laws that we think are good. But the essence of democracy is procedure, the essence of democracy is not that most people decide everything. The essence of democracy is procedure, and the procedure will give through its mechanisms a final goal that is justified and regulated. Why did you falsify the Labour Act? What the National Assembly is for, if she can vote for an amendment here, to give her opinion on something and to change it in some office afterwards. That's what you did, falsified the Labour Act. It bothered me very much when Mr Albianic earlier said, the truth quietly and shyly, as follows: "This assembly of the National Assembly has no institutional problems as it had before." It's not possible. He has institutional problems far greater than he had before. This is reflected in the fact that the will of the National Assembly has changed. No need to laugh, colleague Matić, I mentioned you so you could say. You're going to tell me what we know and what we in the DS said ourselves, what are the mistakes that people are responding to, but I don't hear any of you here brave enough to say, yes, we were wrong, there's a falsified Labour Act. None of you say here – it is, article 199. The rules of procedure have been broken. And you know it and I know it. Or I should read it. I'll read it for the public, it's not a problem, we've got plenty of time. So, Article 199 clearly states: "A session of the National Assembly to discuss the issue of trust with the Government or the individual member" etc. So they'll argue. You cannot, as the ruling coalition, decide whether or not you will respect the Rules of Procedure. It's the letter of the law. We can't decide here most of the time whether or not we're going to discuss new elections. We can't say here - no, we'll extend our mandate for the next 20 years. There's no majority that can go above the law. The rule of law is to limit will. This is the previous question to me: do we debate here today, will we bring such a Rules of Procedure, fight (we from the opposition) here for some amendments, and is it worth anything to you, or will it come to you, when you are in trouble, that you may break it? Not in the replica, especially you, Mr. Mother, if you go out, to defend your mistakes by mentioning the mistakes of the past. That's why your responsibility is higher, because you're just doing everything you've criticized in our home. You have rightly criticised the mistakes in the previous session, but your shame is greater that you do what you criticized and on the wave that you came to power. Where is our future if every next one is not the shift of the best, but I will cover that the predecessors were the bad ones he was even worse. You are even worse. So that's a previous question for me, and I'm sorry you don't know what I'm talking about. Come out for a pay phone, I haven't seen you in over a year often, so tell me what you've got. So that, in my opinion, is the fundamental question -- are we solving this previous question and have we cleared up with the story of whether we want to respect the Rules of Procedure or not to respect the Rules of Procedure? What does this Rules of Procedure bring? This Rules of Procedure provides a restriction on the rights of Members of the People. It is extremely degutant to listen to the good speech of the promoter. Indeed Mr. Predrag Markovic speaks well, he is a very kind man and I greatly appreciate him, but he does not respond to the essence. The essence is the restrictions on the rights of the Members of the People. I can't believe there's someone in this assembly who's really going to come out here and say this is an increase in the rights of the MPs. You know in what sense the increase in the right is – that you do not have to sit down and that no one will ever see you again in the National Assembly. You will enter, you will legislate as the ruling coalition and walk around Belgrade. It's an increase in your rights, but those rights are rights that are out of this business. We are talking about the right of MPs in the business, the right to speak our mind, to criticise the government's views. Otherwise, elections would be enough to win the election, so let's put an end to parliament, the opposition has nothing to talk about until the next election, and that's that. You must allow the opposition to express its views in parliament and you must allow the opposition to discuss your laws. You can't cover yourself by having the ultimate outcome of a vote already known in advance. All right, he is known in advance, because there is a ruling majority. It is not disputed, but it is the essence of hearing the minority's opinion before that end. So, the minority opinion is the essence of parliamentary life and the essence of the process that exists in parliament. As you were saying when the previous Rules of Procedure was passed, when restrictions were made on the rights of MPs. This is what you were saying, it's your head of the Parliament Club then, Deyan Michael, and now one of the first three men in the DSS. This is what the DSS says: "Ladies and gentlemen, the most restrictive provisions of these two systems are being looked at for us to have a limited and time of debate. We also have an unnecessary need for a quorum. "That's what Dejan Michael said. It is determined that a third of the MPs should be present to begin the debate. It resorts to 84 figures and the most restrictive measures to preserve the government. That's what Dejan Michael said. Your boss said this two years ago. As MPs, I read further, Dejan Mihajlov does not exist, we, as DSS MPs, answer to citizens for what we do and answer to our party. Simply, if we fought for some rules and procedures while we were opposition, it's immoral to be against it when you're in a position. In this case, it comes to the position that we've stood for one thing then, and when the government has cooled down, let us completely derail the opposition, let us completely crush those who don't think in any case as you do. These are Dejana Michaela's words, incredibly applicable to the situation we have today, this is DSS honesty and consistency in the policy you're leading. What does Mr. Dejan Mihaylov say next? Dejan Mihajlov says – The DSS will not support any further restrictions on parliamentary rights, because it deeply offends the intelligence of this people, because the people who once freed themselves of a kind of dictatorship must not allow themselves to go into a new kind of dictatorship and no one in this assembly should underestimate the citizens again, because they will show their will in the first extraordinary elections that will be in Serbia. Believe me, he spoke well of Dejan Mihajlov, listen to your boss, do not vote today for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is really talking about your party. It would be good for you to think about these things and what kind of politics you run. Now, let's go specifically to see what you are proposing to the MPs and I will be very kind to all of you, because you have not read as MPs of the ruling coalition. So I guarantee half of you have no idea what we're talking about today. You didn't read this today and don't throw it away. On the one hand, this proposal has marked inconsistencies. It tends to specify the supposed Rules of Procedure, etc., and now we have these Articles 1, 4, 10, 19, etc., where it is specified that the National Assembly should do so. On the other hand, the proposal is inconsistencies, some ideas are released in the form of Articles 21, 23, 26, for which no one in this room is clear how they will be applied. Then, there's one good thing, a local self-government committee is being introduced. But the question is, what are the responsibilities of this committee? I think you've made a deep mistake here, or the promoter has made a deep mistake, and I don't think it's the clearest system, or the importance of local self-government as citizens' rights. So, the essence of what the Committee on Local Self-Government should be doing in the National Assembly is the affirmation of local self-government as the rights of citizens, that this committee takes care of how local self-government is going to develop in our country. A measure of local self-government is one of the rappers of democracy in one society, but you don't, then we could ask on that committee some questions that have been heard here before, how this finance minister through the transfers of the Government of Serbia is trying to control the system of local self-government, against which you were DSS MPs back then. So there's a mistake. It's good to introduce this, but it's a bad content and I urge you to change it. You say – the debate at the committee session is conducted regardless of the number of members present. I really don't know how we can hold a debate at the board's session regardless of the number of board members present. So, the board president is authorized to call a session, discuss it, he can hang it there on the board, report it to two MPs, some not to answer. Two MPs come in, they schedule a session in the weather, and they do all the topics they care about at the board's session. The MPs are no longer required to come. It is enough that one, two or three MPs, the others are not required to attend a committee session. I think this is a solution that is absolutely unsustainable, regardless of the story of alleged efficiency. Effectiveness cannot be to this end a priority to destroy all other principles that rule in a democratic society. Because if we approach this effective way, I have a concrete proposal for you, we will abolish Parliament and we will be the most effective. Whatever the government wants, they're gonna put it on paper, they're gonna stamp it, and there's the law. Article 9 - members of the Committee, the legislator, the representative of the Government and the applicant of the amendments or the representative of the applicants may take part in the search for committee meetings, at least one five minutes. My first remark is why the MP cannot participate on the committee in the debate on amendments. Why does any of you non-member MPs come to the board and have an interesting question for the amendment that is interesting to them. Maybe it's an amendment that reduces the transfer to his constituency. He wants to come to the board, he wants to discuss the amendment, and he wants to say, "Don't let people reduce money for my municipality, but he doesn't have the right to discuss the amendment." You have abolished the right of the MP to come to the committee meeting and to discuss the amendment. Do you realize how illogical that is, because it's going to hit you the same way? Tomorrow you or your MPs will be struck. What does it mean once in five minutes? The committees, Mr. Shormaz, I'll be so kind as to explain to you, it's not vague for you. No one forbids to write an amendment to anyone, but if you write the amendment and say, take down the city of Belgrade 500 million and transfer it to Smedereva, and that amendment goes away, normally. I get it as an MP from Belgrade, then I go and say -- you see, Mr. Shormaz has submitted an amendment, but he does not generally understand the issue of income-expension in one country. I can't go to the board and say it, because you're the one who denied it. It's not about who's going to submit the amendment. It's about whether there's a place where I can defend my position on the amendment that someone has submitted. Now that others understand, I can't just stick around and explain it to you. Why just five minutes? Why just once? If there is one place where both in this National Assembly and in the previous National Assembly, there was a collegiate atmosphere, where we were all colleagues, these are our committees, at least the Justice Committee, whose member I've been for six years. We've always been able to talk more and more times to repeat one subject, and more than once to talk, and that's quite logical. You're ending that good practice we've got so far. I don't know why you're shutting it down. Why do you have a problem talking to the boards? Why remove the quorum for working on committees, give you the opportunity to maintain some, god forbid, secret committees, where no one will even know when it happens, where it happens, etc. You're making it impossible for people to come and say it, and now you're on the board where expert discussions are being held, where there are no political debates, you try to work out a specific topic. To say some solutions that you think are good or not, it can take a maximum of five minutes, and when those five minutes are over, it's enough for someone else to answer the word, suggest something different, etc. You don't have the ability to answer, you don't have the ability to give maybe a third idea, so we're losing quality. What's it worth to buy time if we're losing quality? Let's move on. Article 10 is completely unclear, it's completely unclear what you wanted to say to Article 10. Mr. Matić, I've given you the opportunity to replicate. I don't think this is right. In Article 10(4), the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends and works after 18 hours, and that is wrong. Why? Because you, as you have so far, have introduced it because of the delay in time, because of the poor leadership of the National Assembly in general, which is the consequence of policymaking. You guys used to work all night. It's not very controversial, it's been done all night, some nap, last time there was yogurt, and a barrel and everything, it's a dignified National Assembly you promised the citizens before you came to power. No problem, but what happens now? It can happen in five minutes to 18 hours that the president of the National Assembly says - we will extend the work and then process another 15 topics. Where is the public of work, where are the opinions, parliamentaryism? It's a scam. You must respond by accepting the amendments submitted by colleagues (I don't know exactly from which party) in order to make as much sense as possible. The amendment refers to a situation where such an extension is possible only until the debate is concluded, and everything else is a fraud of the MPs. I am going back to the debate on certain points of the agenda. The National Assembly session is conducted regardless of the number of MPs present. I'd like to make myself perfectly clear. I've had a clear war on the legions, that is, this Rules of Procedure. There's no dilemma. There is this in parallel parliaments, such solutions, but it is nothing controversial, but the parallel parliaments do not have 4.5 per cent of citizens' support, it has not been happening to them for 15 years, that each ruling majority is making such a foul to further lower the position of this parliament. We cannot be measured by the French Parliament. Mr President, our MPs should have a reputation like the French MPs do. It can't be decreed. We have another way of getting that reputation. What a reputation, Mr. President, will be when you sit here alone and sit here five MPs in the O.R. People are accusing us anyway because of the pay, which is for this, which is for that. I said, I'm sorry you weren't here, I'll repeat it before you, I think we're on the verge of political life in every way. The National Assembly is on the verge of political life, both by the reputation it enjoys in the public and by the decisions it makes, that is, the importance of the impact on the decisions made. Now I ask you, imagine what you'll look like as president of the National Assembly, how we, as MPs, will sit here five MPs. Anyway, whoever you meet on the street, someone who gets 15,000 and 20,000 dinars, thinks I don't know what kind of abundance we live in here, and when he sees we're gone, it'll be extra. We'll see how tomorrow or the day after tomorrow the media will report what we're doing here today. Today I saw the title – quorum from the hallway. So we're talking about the reputation of the National Assembly, not the disputed solution as a solution, but whether it's appropriate for us, that's the question, Mr. President. Article 14 – if the committee responsible fails to submit a report, i.e. the Government’s opinion on the draft law, the draft law will be considered without these reports or opinions. I don't think that's right. That's definitely not right. It can be decided by the National Assembly, but don't put it as a regular practice, because the chairman of the board won't call a board or call a committee and they'll come two or three people and they don't have (and doesn't matter) a quorum for work, etc. To this extent, we liberalise the work in this House, that a member of the Parliament who does not work can not work to the will, and that is terrible. There must be some obligations of MPs here. I don't know what kind of freedom is needed by the MPs, I don't know who's having a hard time in this House, what kind of job is that for 100,000 dinars?- I'm sorry. This isn't a hard job, especially for MPs who haven't come out here three times for a pay phone and haven't submitted three amendments all the time. This is way out of line. This solution is completely exaggerated, and I think it has to, and I don't know if there's an amendment here, I've tabled an amendment to this article 14, and don't shout, please, so I think Article 14 needs to adopt the amendment and we need to oblige the MPs to come to the committees. You can't keep committees, and you have most of them as your government, you have most of them on board, you keep the quorum on those boards. You are, at the very least, not you, but the current government passed it on to us, and that was one of the arguments when it was supposed to come to power. You mentioned, Mr. President, that the National Assembly had two or one percent reputation among citizens. Yes, but the opposition then drew panorama, scandals, and this whole play about what was going on in the National Assembly, criticising the then rule. Did you see us do it? We have little feelings for the state. We're not like some gentlemen who drew panorama and some of the financial empires of some ministers, etc., and now those ministers are not missing hair from their heads. And we don't draw screens and we don't read "Kurir," where it says 12 million, so we make this number 12 million and call a press conference, and we make comedy out of it. Take care, if you're already saying there's a better rating of this assembly, so you should commend us once not to crash the ratings, and not just us, I think this other opposition party has a far lighter attitude than it was in the previous period. It's a terrible thing to boast about a 4.5% rating in general, it's a disgrace to all of us. Article 15 – the very idea that committees have a legislative initiative is a good idea and there is no dispute for us. The idea as an idea is good. It's inapplicable at this point for us, because the Constitution doesn't predict it. The same applies to amendments, because amendments and the right to submit amendments are more restrictive than the legislative initiative, and it is difficult for us to now give the Committee the right to submit amendments. It's not a problem, we can sort it out another way and we don't have a text that's possibly in the conflict with the Constitution. By the MPs who are members of the board will sign a certain amendment, as can be signed by a certain law, and by carrying out a legislative initiative. Essentially, Mr. President, that's the same thing, and it's formally important to make no difference and we don't question our commitment to constitutional provisions. Article 16 is very controversial, and that's what several colleagues have been talking about here. Article 16. I think it will be subject to the Constitutional Court's assessment. In fact, here you have given up on a principle that applies in this National Assembly, which is that time and opportunity to make views depends on the size of the parliamentary club, or parliamentary group. So the parliamentary group with 80 members has so much time, and those with 60 so much, we with 37 so much etc. It's nothing controversial. It must in some way limit the duration of the debate and it cannot last indefinitely, ten years and so on. In the amendment debate, you predicted that we all had ten minutes or if you accepted the amendment for 15 minutes. I don't think that's very important, it's not a neck, it's a neck, which you'd say. Where's the mistake? First of all, I do not agree in principle that we are limited to the right to talk about amendments. I really don't think you should do that. You're going back to some efficiency and we're going to lose to quality, and it's not a good way to fix something in this National Assembly. If you remain in that solution, you must change it the following way: you must set the time proportionally the size of the parliamentary clubs. Here, Mr. Albianic and I are inequitable, that's what I said on the board. Dear fellow Albianic, whom I love very much to listen to behind the pay phone and very often we have similar attitudes, we are not equal on the subject of submitting amendments. For the simple reason that when an amendment appears for this speaker, theoretically speaking, as a member of a larger parliamentary group, I have less opportunity to come out and discuss the amendment than Mr Albianic, who is a member of a smaller parliamentary group. My parliamentary group is bigger, his is smaller, but I can speak less than he can when it's divided. So it doesn't make sense that the parliamentary group with, I don't know, 22 MPs has the same right as the parliamentary group with 83 MPs. That doesn't make sense, no matter what I do, as a member of a parliamentary group that has 37 MPs, it doesn't matter. It's a really principled question, and that's why I insist that you solve it. I think it will be declared unconstitutional for the simple reason that MPs are in an unequal position and do not have equal rights. We can go so far as to limit the discussion to amendments and to five minutes for the SRS parliamentary group, but proportionately, we have to limit the time to consider the parliamentary group SPS, G17, DSS, DS, and then it will not be unconstitutional, because it will not violate the equality of MPs before the law, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. That's the essence of the remarks on this member. I'm surprised we have to think about it for so long and you don't want to just accept it. There are good solutions, so not that this is all a criticism, there are really good solutions. For good solutions, we have given some amendments and we hope you will adopt them. We need to speed up, time what it does, I'm going to move on to Article 21, and I'm going to introduce you to our amendment. Here you have introduced something that is very important and that we have been having a debate on a committee in time, I cannot remember exactly which, something that is very important, and it is that, normally in the work of the National Assembly during the meeting, there are certain topics that are of such importance, of social importance, that the National Assembly should first declare about them, or that it should discuss them and make a statement. That, of course, is impossible under the current Rules of Procedure. Following your changes and additions, these topics are the choice and appointment, resolution and termination of office, a proposal for the approval of detention of the judge and the public prosecutor, as well as a proposal for a vote of mistrust to the Government or to an individual member, etc. My proposal, a proposal from the DS parliamentary group, is that all of this can be decided immediately after the discussion, not as you predicted – just one part of these issues. So for all these questions, and as soon as they deserve to be inserted into the agenda of the sittings, they deserve not only to be discussed but also to be decided on. I particularly point out this because of the situation in the judiciary, and we also talked about it with members of the High Council of Justice, which is a situation where you can't really wait three, four, five months to fill certain seats in a court in Serbia. Article 23 - we have not solved anything here, let me tell you straight away, is not a problem with the arguments given by the MPs about which judge is elected and which is not. The problem is the content of the explanation. We get the four most information from the High Council of Justice on the Justice Committee. It doesn't mean that the MPs get it: when someone was born, when he graduated from college, etc. We need the content of these arguments and clear reasons why a judge, i.e. a candidate, was elected a judge, why some did not, why a candidate was elected a prosecutor and so on. I believe that you share that opinion and that it is very important today when our judiciary has 11% of the confidence of Serbian citizens. I sincerely hope that you are all aware that root changes must be made to the judiciary and the DS will come out with a proposal for measures that should change the situation in Serbia's judiciary. Finally, Article 26 - you said that you would accept an amendment here, and this is about the president of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, setting out the day when individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions on some topic. So, both the DS amendment and the amendment, I don't know exactly whose, is that it's timed, so it doesn't leave an empty letter on paper. It means it's timed. Our proposal is to be engaged from the day of the parliamentary issue, and your proposal is that it seems once a month. In any case, it's very important not to play it, so to say, one minister can't, so I can't do two, and so on, if the issues are from different resolutions. Finally, after these thirty minutes I want to say that, Mr President, you have resorted to a bad mechanism, not violence, this is a bad mechanism to solve the problems of our parliamentary life, because the root problems of parliamentaryism in Serbia are deep. First of all, they look at the power of the executive authority over this parliament, and then they look at each other in contempt of the MPs, you as the speaker of the assembly and the ruling majority in this assembly. As long as the ruling majority does not get rid of the pain that the government is allowed to do everything, we will not have progress in Serbia's parliamentary life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16171	Replica, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16172	I am directly mentioned, please give me the opportunity to replicate Mr. Markovic. First, one of the biggest scandals in this assembly was the famous or infamous vote from Bodrum, before that from Thessaloniki. Comparing such a scandal with one legal revision of the text of the Labour Act, I think it's simply another scandal. However, this is already an individual scandal, the winemaker is only one MP, Mr. Markovic, who tells something that has nothing to do with the truth. The reasons for the new rules of procedure are certainly in the fact that it is necessary for Serbia to take the European path. We have about 120,000 pages of legislation to bring here, right here in this House. It is necessary because every poll and every opinion survey says that more than 78% of our citizens are willing, i.e. They want us to join the European Union as soon as possible. Many critics of the Republic government say the government is good, but a fundamental grudge is found in its slowness. In order for the government not to be slow, this parliament has to work quickly and, of course, no solution, Mr Markovic, can be declared ideal, but we need to find some optimal solutions. To remind ourselves, the DS amendments to the Labour Act made the law, even with a vote that seemed rather a joke than a serious vote by some MPs, to be devised and it is unthinkable. I hope we can fix that law. Please don't compare the state of parliamentism in 2005 with what we had in 2002 or 2003. Moreover, at that time, only at the end of 2003, we had no serious parliament, we had no government or any institution. Everything was reserved with this story of yours about the need to make rapid changes in society, and of course your last was to respect the law. Mr. Markovic, I have tried, believe me, to be gentle, because you yourself have admitted that you have made great mistakes, and according to our people, who admits, half of them are forgiven.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16173	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16174	You know what, when something is said from this pay phone to the DSS, then more of them have to come out so they can respond competently, and then I have to use the right given to the Rules of Procedure and in some way be as equal as possible. Mr. Matić, when you were an opposition and we were in power, there were 120,000 pages waiting for you, but I read you what you said about the changes of the Rules of Procedure at the time. So, the same thing was 120,000 pages, and it seems to me that you've changed your policy a little bit, as Mr. Prime Minister, with that ninth hole on it, so he turned the player upside down, and now he's the first hole on the play. So that's the way you ran your policy. I'll tell you one more thing, I'm sorry you don't understand one thing. The famous vote from Bodrum, which we have condemned as a party, is a far smaller problem. You know what the problem is, Mr. Matić: the problem will be when your party has to condemn many of the things you've done, starting with the support of the red berets for the roadblock, and beyond, so we're lucky that we have the most to condemn is just that vote from Bodrum, and you'll have much worse things to condemn. Let me tell you something, you don't understand parliamentaryism. It's a much worse thing to falsify the will of parliament than what some DS individuals did back then. It is a much worse matter of this will, here expressed through the vote on amendments, to be rewritten in an office here or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and then to push the President of the Republic to sign it. It's a much worse thing, it's a fantasy and it will follow you as a party probably for a long time, as well as the president of the National Assembly, against whom we have filed a criminal report and we expect that the court will be able to act freely after the appointment of Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16175	Wait a minute, the word has been made by MP Dragan Šormaz, and then by Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16176	I answered the line twice, I was directly mentioned. But I won't, with Mr. Markovic, mention Bodrum or Thessaloniki, or that situation from that period of work of the National Assembly. I just want to say one thing, one thing that Mr. Markovic said here, which is that at the time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was waiting for 120,000 sides; it's not true. Maybe there were 120,000 foreign foreigners, because it was a very bad work of one government and one parliamentary majority, and you didn't have a feasibility study. You've run a very bad country, the European Union has no trust in you, and that's why you never got a feasibility study. Within a year of working this government, it has happened and you already have to decide once as a party, whether you want Serbia to be part of the European family or not. If you want to, then you should not only be declarative and talk about it without doing anything about it, but rather tell the European Parliament in what way this Rules of Procedure does. Is that so in the Parliament of the European Union, in the Council of Europe, in Strasbourg, where we have a working quorum, where we do not have one. Say specific things, not like this, you speak demagogue. You have the right as an opposition and I don't mind. But, gentlemen, tell me, are you up for a faster trip to the European Union or not? And to comment on the 120,000 pages that are waiting for us to do, I don't think you have the right, because that's when you distanced the country from the European family, and that's a fact, that's what people in the international community tell you. I'm sorry that you're losing those positions you once held in the international community, and I'm sorry that whenever you see anyone from the international community, you're panicking here a single parliamentary party, and that's all you do. Instead of working together on the image of this country and working together to improve Serbia's position in the European Union, in Europe, in the world, you don't, and that's a fact and everyone here knows it. You do it on embassies, everywhere. Now tell me once whether those 120,000 pages, which Mr. Slavoljub Matic spoke of, should improve the lives of citizens, each individual. Whether it should contribute to increased investment, I mean our country, whether it should contribute to stronger economic development or not. If you have to, then you have to back it up and help. If you're not up for it, say you're not up for this country's progress, that you're not up for an increase in investment. Come out with that in front of your voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16177	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16178	Thank you. We were not away from the European Union four years ago for 120,000 sides, but for seven light-years, given that the European integration affairs were run by then by Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic. You'll agree. Secondly, I see you have 37 MPs as the Democratic Party MPs' club again. So, Goran Svilanovic returned to your Parliament club. Now I don't know if Goran Svilanovic has changed his mind about independent Kosovo and Metohija or whether the Democratic Party has changed its mind on Kosovo and Metohija. As far as I could see from the means of public information, Svilanovic did not change his mind. Of course, the Democratic Party of Serbia strongly protested the change of the Rules of Procedure during the term of office of Natasa Micic, because he had strictly restrictive provisions. I stand on the stand that the opposition must not be denied the right to obstruction. If in all parliaments in the opposition world, except in those dictatorial regimes, he has the right to obstruct decision-making, he will also have in our parliament. The opposition is left with that possibility through the work of the Assembly Committees. Also, opposition MPs are given one new option, so parliamentary issues are given a new dimension through regulation of asking parliamentary questions. I think it'll be a real test for ministers and government in general in the next period. As for the status of the opposition and some restrictive measures against the opposition, Mr. Markovic, we have no one to sat down, since there are only six or seven MPs in the hall. I suppose that's why you wanted to agree to Dragisa Djokovic, by falsifying the election will of citizens, to move to the Democratic Party, so that a number of situations here in the parliamentary benches would increase you to seven to eight MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16179	Thank you. The word is made by MP Predrag Marković, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16180	Thank you. In order for it to happen, we have no doubt that something in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure has been put into question the seriousness of the work, and it is a matter of timely notification of all, because of these changes that follow, which, this time, is the lack of obligation for the session itself to attend a certain number of MPs all the time. So it has been said that there is an opportunity under this proposal to extend the work. As you know, that question was not regulated by the previous Rules of Procedure or by the Rules of Procedure before that. I guess I inherited it as something to vote on based on that attitude that says the Assembly can make decisions, etc. Here it is now defined, as well as a whole series of questions that have not been defined, and it has been shown by MPs how it can be defined. It's defined in this way in accordance with the system's solution. You can't ask 126 MPs. But because you can't ask 126 MPs for a decision, to continue your work after 1800 hours, that doesn't give you the right to abuse it. There are always people who can think of it, here, I'm not surprised that I've heard that idea before, you take it and discuss 15 points during the night. I'm sorry, please, I'm such an honorable man that I immediately intervened and in agreement suggested that this be a measure to the benefit of the Assembly, which means there's a clear restriction: it can only be extended until the end of the period on the agenda and so that no later than 1600 hours, then, two hours before the end of the work, the Assembly informs. This means, if this is a debate in particular, that you do not miss the opportunity to present your amendments. You have two hours to inform your MP to come, to clarify the position he will present, because most of the amendments are submitted, as you know, on behalf of the parliamentary group. But the work can't be extended by two points of the agenda, as it could be so far. Also, it has been possible under the Rules of Procedure so far, and the president has only reported this by stating the reason, that it is other days, except Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. So this is just held up. There are only built-in mechanisms in there. I think this is for us to explain to each other, and I'm sorry that these fights just happened, what we wanted, and see what we could do. I have to resort to one metaphor again. When you have good traffic at the store, and the store works until 6:00, when the hours are over, do you think everyone locks the door and goes right away? No, as much as there is work left, so much is done: to clean up, to prepare the bill, to hand it over, to pay the tax, so sometimes it's done until 19:00, and sometimes it's done by 20.00 hours. All employees do that. Also this assembly, if there is anything left to finish that day – will end, will work until 6:15 p.m., will work until 18.20 p.m. It doesn't occur to anyone that MPs are anything but other citizens. The same rule applies to them: the work that's on the agenda will end and new hours will begin tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16181	The People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16182	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to make a few notes about the motion for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure. In the debate so far, we've mostly been going on about two very important issues. It's a quorum, or time needed to argue. We have already heard from individual MPs that there is a practice in many countries of Europe that does not require quorum, some special quorum for the work of the assembly. There's a number of countries. I could also count some other countries. We've heard remarks that maybe, apart from the president of the National Assembly, there'll be no one in the O.R. Some think we're all here, the 250 MPs, so insecure that because there's no quorum we won't be coming at all. We'll probably be there at 10.00 hours, 10.05 hours to pick up the logs and disappear. I don't think so badly of MPs of the National Assembly. I don't think it's right to even mention something like that from this pay phone. I am convinced that all MPs are responsible enough and that the National Assembly will continue to work after the abolition of this so-called working quorum in the same way we have done, Mr. Sarovic, so far. There were also words about the time needed to discuss certain points of the agenda. It is a practice in most European countries that time is limited. There's no other way to do it. They must in some way be given some boundaries within which the debate is being held. To tell you the truth, I had another idea of how to allow MPs to participate more in the debate than was planned so far, that is, in the new proposal. I suggested that the debate be fully passed on to committees, resolution committees, there be no restrictions on the debate, and that only after discussions on committees are discussed according to the committee's report here on the tide, of course again in some limited time. There's something else I'd like to say about the time limit, and I think we should do it in one next amendment or new rules of procedure. In most parliaments, time is not divided for discussion, as it is for us, but time is divided into two equal parts: the part for position and the part for opposition. So at the same time they have parties that are in power and parties that are in opposition, the same amount of time. In addition, someone mentioned that, in some ways, a pronoun should be limited. In many countries at a time that belongs to the ruling parties, exposure, for example, to the minister counts. Therefore, they are fully equated in the parliamentary debate -- both sides. The minister has no unlimited time, but his time must fit in at that time that belongs to the ruling parties. That's one reason to keep thinking. There was a suggestion here that it would be good to bring in a new Rules of Procedure. I am in the third term an MP in this assembly. This Rules of Procedure has been patched up more than once. Unfortunately, it is quite certain that the time has come to create a new rules of procedure, of course, not in haste, but in one studio work, to try to make one working group of representatives of all parliamentary parties. Given our current practice, given the European experience, to prepare a single reform of our rules of procedure, a different rules of procedure. There are many questions that should be changed by the Rules of Procedure, and there are many issues that are not regulated by the rules of procedure. That should be put into the Rules of Procedure. I also think that, in some ways, we should avoid the abuse of the current Rules of Procedure. In fact, it's often that we have discussions outside the agenda, we have a debate over time, we have an announcement by the Rules of Procedure. Here, counterpart Sarovic will definitely come forward immediately, and then when there are no conditions for it, and that should sort of be a little bit different to regulate. In many European countries, when the time is up, you turn off the microphone, without special warning, so that after a while people learn that five minutes is five minutes, not ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16183	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the SRS is on the political scene of Serbia, every time our party's popularity rises unconstitutionally, then our political non-eminents resort to various permitted and unauthorized types of struggle against our political party, or the SRS. So about ten days ago, that Albanian drug dealer, pathological liar Natasa Kandic, was launched with a story that no one in Serbia believed, of course, except for that little yellow one, which Aleksandar Vukic broke up in a television duel. I'm just surprised that when he ran to support Natasa Kandic, he didn't call Alexander Vukic a criminal, given that he was killed in the show by the raffals of arguments. Of course, against his criminal activity and the criminal activity of his boss – and this is the one that announces going to Srebrenica on July 11th, and he does not think of going there at night, so that the next day he goes to Bratunac, given that even in Bratunac, a day later, he is marked ten years after the crime. Of course, it is the most drastic kind of fight against the SRS, but there are far more perfidious and seemingly subtle aspects of fighting the SRS, an attempt to reduce the importance of Serbian radicals in the public of Serbia. Someone's thought of it, and it's happened before, so it'd be good for us to show up in public as little as possible. Of course, the media you have under control, what remains outside your reach is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then it was the best solution to propose the most restrictive Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We know that. The DOS also did it, so when they thought we were talking about this pay phone only to be watched by the Serbian public, then they shut down television broadcasts, so they expected that we would less appear after this pay phone. However, our MP group, as it is now (so will be in the future), spoke for this speaker, used its time as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. We have always said what we think of both the Serbian government and the assembly majority. You don't have a way, no matter what drastic measures you take, through the Rules of Procedure, to try to stop us from speaking, believe you won't succeed. We have shown you this, and we will also show you at the next session of the congregation, for it is unacceptable that you have scheduled a session of the Assembly three days before it was held. It is clear to us that this is because the Serbian Parliament is in the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it was a way to prevent MPs from submitting amendments to the proposed laws. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I apologize for failing to submit more than 500 amendments to these 45 points, which are on the agenda from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I don't know when the next session will begin. When Predrag Markovic here explained this, as he said, his proposal to the Rules of Procedure, it would be better not to boast that this is his proposal, because this is really something drastic, I expected Predrag Markovic to tell us that he was resigning, because here he thanked everyone for his cooperation, for his correct, such or such relations. It was like a farewell speech to me, but I can see that it's not about that, but that it's about his trying to convince, first of all, that I would tell the public of Serbia, because the MPs we have ahead of us, this text of a decision, can't convince us that this is a good solution. I'll remind you, I don't know if you saw that TV show maybe a week or two ago, a fellow MP, visiting on that TV show, tried to defend this draft Rules of Procedure. It was tragic the way she thinks she defended it. When a journalist asked a colleague why such a drastic measure was proposed, that the Assembly was working without a quorum, she said it was common so far for MPs to come, go to the cashier's office, pick up the diary, take a walk and leave the parliament building. The journalist said, "This is the way only the possibility of an MP entering the Assembly is created, there is no obligation to show up in the hall, he will go down to the restaurant, he will spend the day there, and he will take that diary again." This colleague of ours says, "Well, it's better for the MP to take the diaries and go sit in a congregation restaurant than to, as some MPs, go out for a pay phone every minute, submit amendments and defend one amendment for a few of them." That's the kind of explanation that that journalist was surprised at, and he just realized with surprise that she could say something like that, and that colleague said she wasn't a serious politician, so she might not know it enough, but it's just seeing her. It seems to me to be seeing Mr. Markovic too, because if he hadn't, he wouldn't have suggested such a thing, I really must say, unbulful solutions. You, Mr. President, and you, ladies and gentlemen MPs, received a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group a year and a half ago, a proposal for a completely new text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and if you accidentally read it, if you did not, I strongly recommend it, make sure that such a democratic Rules of Procedure this National Assembly did not have. One more thing is that everyone we have in front of us and who brings in change is worse than worse. It's as if someone in the congregation's majority, both now and before, has stopped to choke democracy, to choke the multi-party system, because otherwise I can't explain, and none of us can explain differently the fact that the MP is making it impossible in his work through the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly is no ad hoc body. The National Assembly is no informal association. The National Assembly is the most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia. We MPs are 250 out of the total number of citizens. We are no better than our citizens, but we are chosen to defend the interests of citizens on their behalf. How can we do so if the congregation’s majority prohibits us through these amendments to the Rules of Procedure? It's mostly restrictive and very bad and this Rules of Procedure we're working on right now. The fact that the President of Parliament here, when he replicated Mr. Vukic, tried to say that Mr. Vukic did not calculate how many SRS MPs can speak in the principle debate, since we have a total, it seems to me, 98 minutes and 12 seconds, of course, did not count now because it is not a topic today. Today, the subject is what you suggested as a change. We could not all talk in the principle debate (all MPs from, say, the SRS parliamentary groups, I suppose, refer to others) because it is impossible for 82 MPs to speak those 98 minutes. I don't know what it is when it's divided into one man. That is why we were able to speak through the amendments all of us who needed to say something in favour of the reasons for the amendment, with the intention of convincing the Government's representative, if there is, or the majority of the assembly, to adopt the amendment. What used to seem like an obstruction to you, that's your problem. We are neither obstructing nor doing it! I repeat, there is no way to prevent an SRS parliamentary group from speaking here as much as we estimate that we should speak. You are free of your limitations and principled debates. And now according to the amendments of 10 minutes, you'll see, we'll find a way to talk again, all of us as much as we estimate that we should talk! President, you said today that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, you wanted to avoid us arguing, sharing society and sharing the state. I'm shocked by this statement. From word to word, that's what you said. First of all, I don't understand how you can think, if you consider the debate over this assembly speaker to be a fight. No matter what the MP says from this pay phone, if he's aware, and whoever he's referring to and who he's talking to, it can't be any argument, nor can it be any private, personal relationship. It's even more amazing on what grounds did you conclude that we shared society and that we shared the state?- I'm sorry. We Serbian radicals do not share the state and society! If that's how you see it, that's your problem. It's more like some kind of advocacy or a return to a one-party system. If you think that a different opinion has been expressed for this speaker, state-sharing or mutual quarrel, then you obviously advocate the one-party system: says one and the other you should be quiet. Indeed, with Serbian radicals, it is difficult to do so. You further explained how you would make these restrictive amendments to the Rules of Procedure, or the Assembly, begin the session on time. Explain to us how the session will begin on time. I didn't realize if you were going to be a security guard now, besides being Parliament Speaker. Will we MPs be allowed to enter at one door and another, who will wait for us there to record us, to know that we have entered the building? Now you're going to say that I literally understood this member, and I didn't, but exactly how it was written and how it should be applied. So, you haven't explained how you're going to catch the MPs in the assembly building, find out that we're here somewhere, I don't know where, and who's going to stand outside the door and ban us from going out if we need to get out? How will you be informed here whether, at any moment, a sufficient number of us, foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, are in the building of the Assembly? It's not possible, it's not feasible, and it's not appropriate. The fact that someone is in the National Assembly building, so you tried to explain that the MP has a need to work past this hall, we all know it well, especially us who do a lot of work both in this room and out of this room. It's been working here for three days, two more working days are available to MPs, stands and weekends, etc. Of course, everyone has their own way of organising their own business, their own parliamentary work, and it shouldn't be the subject of this Rules of Procedure. I have the impression that you didn't quite understand what you were trying to explain to us. There's something else I don't understand. If we, and are currently MPs of the opposition, are never in our lives while the opposition is not going to do the quorum, we will not provide the assembly majority with the start of the session. You're trying to make us, to see us there, they're here somewhere in the hallway, and you come here and you say because 80 of us went into the building, you're here alone, the session can start. Or we should stand outside the door, in front of the building, until someone informs us that the congregation majority has a sufficient number of MPs, and then we too can enter the building. Mr. President, this has nothing to do with democracy, this has nothing to do with parliamentary democracy. I'm convinced that's clear to you, but I don't understand why you're trying to push our rules of procedure. Demagogue is a story about spending citizens' money, what you're trying to do for citizens watching this session, you're trying to say that you're protecting the citizens' budget, and then you're assessing, I don't know how less money is going to be spent if we're working here without a quorum, but if we're working with a quorum. I think if we're working with the quorum, then at least we can make a fair profit of what we're taking. And you citizens protect like that, and you don't tell the citizens that tomorrow's session has 45 points of the agenda, and more than half of it is the sequencing of the citizens in their pockets or counter-guarantees for some already taken and spent loans. But, of course, when this next session begins, we'll have time for you to try to limit us through this new rules of procedure. So you said this new Rules of Procedure was the principle of control of the executive government. Mr. President, you're wrong about that, too. Again, you are denied this tomorrow's session, where you have shown that the Assembly is in office of the Serbian Government – that you have written this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to take effect on the day of adoption for one single reason only, so that you can apply it from this next session, so as to prevent the MPs from working in accordance with their obligations and according to the Constitution and the law. We, Serbian radicals, have submitted 17 amendments to this decision and I believe, Mr. President, that you will not insist tomorrow on the Administrative Committee not to discuss these amendments. Such announcements are heard because we have submitted the amendments because you were the first to submit one or three amendments at the same time as the People's MP. And then after that, we put up with it, and I see all the other MP groups. I believe that you will still respect this very bad Rules of Procedure, but what you are proposing is much worse and much worse, and we will also be able to talk about amendments in this bad Rules of Procedure, because we have much more to say about each of these amendments and every proposed article. I am convinced that this time we will be able to convince both you as a promoter and a congregation majority to adopt at least some of these amendments, that this assembly would make as much sense as possible. Because what you're doing, what you're trying to do through these changes to this Rules of Procedure, is really choking democracy. It's easier to lift the congregation, do whatever you want. It just seems like something else to me: and those before you when they started introducing these rigorous and restrictive measures, it was right before their decision to discuss the election. Something looks like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16185	The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16186	Mr. Chairman, to be honest, Mrs. Radeta, I don't know how you came into the debate about the Rules of Procedure and the need to discuss this point of the agenda. It is not disputed that the position of DS and your party differs deeply on many issues, as well as on the matter of seeing for 10 years in the 20th century, and in the good part of those 10 years your party has participated in power. It is even less controversial that we have very different views, but that you have come to the point where the President of the Republic of Srebrenica will pay his respects at the place where 7,800 people were killed in a few days, according to a report made by the Government of Republika Srpska Commission, I did not know what was criminal and what was the criminal attempt, as you say. I don't know what the attempt is, the president will leave because Srebrenica has become a symbol of the suffering of these unfortunate years throughout humanity and because the state of Serbia will thus pay tribute to people who have been killed in such a way. In the past few months, the President of the Republic has been in Gradiška, when the anniversary of the release of Jasenovac was marked. He was in Žitojsic, at the Serb people's sites. If we can't face the past as a state, which unfortunately we've all been through together, if we can't as a state become part of a system of values that has modern humanity, we will lose step by step the ability to defend the memory of our most fearsome sites, both Jasenovac and Jadovno, and of our people's sites in the last 10 years of the 20th century, including Bratunac. That's why I think it's more than scary, if you're able to say about giving out mail to so many people who have been killed and haven't had a chance to defend themselves, it's a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16187	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, I'm not sure we'll make it. Tomorrow you'll be the first speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16188	Mr. Petrovic didn't listen to me very carefully. I didn't talk about going to Srebrenica as a crime, I was talking about the crime of Boris Tadic, who was taking Aleksandar Vukic to a TV duel with Dragan Dilas. I must say that the SRS was the first to condemn the crime in Srebrenica, that it was Vojislav Seselj after leaving the Gnjilan prison, at the time when the action "Storm" and "Blash" began. We of the SRS always condemn every crime, but for us every crime, every perpetrator has a name and each individual should be held accountable for what he has committed. We, Serbian radicals, also think that this people should be informed and show the crimes committed against Serbs. We're doing it and we've been doing it these days at our press conference, and we'll do it in the future. We still think that the president of Serbia should not go where he is about to go on behalf of the Serbian state. Maybe he needs to go on behalf of his DS, because Ljubisa Savic Mauser, vice president of the DS, was a war criminal on Republika Srpska's territory. As for the relationship between the SRS and the killed people in Srebrenica, we also showed this, three years ago, when Chetnik Duke Mirko Blagojevic, with Mr Iset Halidbegovic, one of the most prominent citizens of Bijeljina, went to bow to the victims. When the "memory-mark" was opened in that place, we, unlike you, didn't make any spectacular events either. The citizens of Serbia know of all nationalities that the SRS has never made the difference between nationalities and that we have always respected members of all national minorities, all other nationalities. Of course, we have respected and respected our Serbian nation. When it comes to crimes, I repeat, we condemn every single crime, but we insist that you, too, who did not accept it when there was a speech about the declaration, condemn and crimes against Serbs. I just said and I repeat, if Boris Tadic is going to Srebrenica, why doesn't he think about spending the night in Srebrenica and going to Bratunac the next day, because the marking of the crime in Srebrenica is July 11th and Bratunac on July 12th, and the distance is only 80 km. In one place are Muslim victims, and elsewhere are Serbian victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16189	You're out of time. The word of the People's Messenger is Suleiman Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16190	Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to say it, and I called about Mr. Petrovic's discussion. I know that Mr. Tadic, in his own name, wants to go to Srebrenica and kneel before the heads of the slain Muslims. Let him go on his own behalf and not go on my behalf. When he allows me, as a Muslim, to go to Sarajevo, to Bratunac, Srebrenica, Tuzla, Zenica, and to kneel like a Muslim in front of the Serb gunmen, and then I will wonder if he has the right to leave in my name. The SRS has condemned all individual crimes, but some in Serbia want to condemn an entire nation, the whole country. The SRS will continue to take care of all segments of the people, any nationality, religion. He, Mr Tadic, first of all you yellow Democrats, should condemn what your late president sought and kneeled before NATO aggression, villains, and to bomb Serbia and the people as much as possible. It's one of the major crimes, it's one of the greatest crimes against its people. You want to condemn only Srebrenica, condemn Mr. Solana, but you can't or won't because you've been supporting his policy the whole time. In the end, I must say, and the stronger I am, Mr. Vojislav Seselj lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16191	One moment, Mr. Petrovich, I'll give you a replica, but we have two minutes and please be brief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16192	I don't know on what basis the last speaker got his word on, but let's not get into it now. We are profoundly different, Your Honor. We are deeply different because the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic has done and triggered the biggest and most significant changes this country has seen in its modern history in the past 200 years. I know you're deeply sorry about that, but it's not a subject and it's not a problem, and that's why you're longing to go back to the 1990s. I want to tell you the bad news about you: it will never happen. Serbia changed the course of its history on October 5th and left the misery, misery and disaster of the 1990s, which ended unfortunately with this NATO bombing, which you have contributed so much to. This is why foreign troops in Kosovo and Metohija are now, which is why this country has lost everything that has succeeded in its modern history to gain, for the ten years you have contributed so much to. We'll differ, we'll differ deeply. Boris Tadic is Serbia's president and will go on behalf of Serbia to honour innocent victims in Srebrenica. I don't know why you can't go and pay your respects to anyone you think you should.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16193	Thank you. The word is proposed by the MP, Mr Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16194	I am deeply saddened, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, which in an attempt to respect each other, but by respecting the citizens who have chosen us, we agree on the way we will work in order to do our best, but also as effectively as possible to present their will, a whole series of remarks that I have heard today, unfortunately, in my opinion, are talking about mutual misunderstanding. That's why at one point I made it clear, I certainly support, and I will do everything, and not just with this proposal, to enable a debate, not to allow a fight. (SRS emissaries leave session: it's six o'clock.) Of course, we heard, it's six o'clock, we're gonna finish this class anyway. None of our citizens are in a situation in which they leave their jobs until they do their job, and that is why we have proposed here a whole series of ways to allow all MPs of all parliamentary groups to finish their work on behalf of the citizens who have chosen them. Tomorrow we will continue and hope to hear many more constructive remarks. I say in advance, compared to what was proposed, no obstruction was prevented in any way. A whole series of possibilities for political obstruction has been created, but obstruction of parliament's work and legislation have been prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-21-0.u16195	Just one notice, the 52nd session of the Administrative Board will be held tomorrow, 9:00 p.m., in the second floor room. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 165 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Before I give my word to the People's Messenger Gordani Komic, a note. The Legislative Committee is at 12:30, and the Justice Committee is at 13.30 p.m. on the third floor. Here you go. You have 12.5 minutes.
