ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 146 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Aligrudic. In accordance with Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda law, which set out 99 MPs in its request for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was convened at the request of 99 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. A bill on ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is scheduled for parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group – four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, pursuant to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, in front of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Milan Markovic, a MP, has been authorised for this item of the agenda. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Dr Milan Parivodic, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15855	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you the Law on the ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community. The law, which we ratify already signed the Textile Agreement, is of great importance to Serbia's economy, as about 90,000 people are employed in the textile industry in Serbia's economy, and around 250,000 people are linked to the incomes of the textile industry. So far, around 27% of exports to the European Union have been covered by duty-free quotas, based on which our textiles and textiles have been exported to the European Union. When this contract comes into force, and our interest is that it should happen as soon as possible, textiles and textiles originating in Serbia, they will be able to export without customs duty to the European Union. So it is an asymmetric agreement, which has been concluded in Serbia's interest, asymmetry in favour of Serbia, which allows for duty-free and free-quota exports of its textiles and textile products from Serbia to the European Union. I'll stop there. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer. I think this agreement, completely undeniably, is in the best interest of the Serbian economy, in the interest of jobs, which are our biggest problem in Serbia. I ask that this agreement be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15856	Thank you, Mr. Parivodich. Do the officials of the committees want a word – the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, Dragor Hiber? No, I don't. Thank you. President of the Committee on European Integration, Ksenija Milivojevic, Chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. Thank you. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No). Thank you. I would like to inform you that according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, have not been submitted. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the principled search is concluded, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak again? No, I don't. ) Does he want another word that did not exercise his right under Article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have discussed the single agenda of this session, I thank all MPs for their responsibility and today, on Monday 30 May 2005, immediately, as a day for voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community. We'll approach the vote immediately. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am putting the draft law on ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 116, 30 of the 146 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 115, it did not vote 30 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the ratification of the agreement on trade in textile products between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another session scheduled for today, but since the amendments to the first item have arrived, I ask that the Constitutional Affairs Committee meet immediately at 13.00 hours in the blue lounge, so that we can begin this session as well. Thank you. The session is closed at 12.55 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15857	FIVE SESSION ON 30 May 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 15.40 hours. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15858	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. A year. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 120 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Aligrudic. In accordance with Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible, which in this request to hold the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia established 97 MPs. With a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was convened at the request of 97 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d : 1. Proposal for an amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with the proposal for a law implementing Amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: the amendment to the constitutional rule of the state union of Serbia and the Black Gore, with the proposal for a law to implement the amendment and II to the constitutional rule of law of the state community of Serbia and of the Black Gore. I'm just asking someone to notify one of the vice presidents, if possible, to come down. Thank you. You have received an amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, with the proposal for a law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Constitutional Affairs Committee concluded: (a) that there are no formal and constitutional obstacles to the adoption of amendments to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with the proposal for a law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro; (b) that the National Assembly is having a joint discussion on the amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with the proposal for a law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and of which a separate vote is being held; (c) that no discussion is opened and that the National Assembly does not vote on amendments submitted by MPs to the draft amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with a proposal for the implementation of Amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three seconds 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction – New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs – four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, five minutes, based on Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not yet done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a search. Does the motionary's representative, Dr. Zoran Loncar, want a word? Here you are, Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15859	I'd like to quote the Rules of Procedure first, so please consider that time. (President: Sure. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly has been injured by Article 135. Rules of Procedure. I'll quote you Articles 45, 46 and 135. Rules of Procedure. Article 45 reads: "The Constitutional Affairs Committee is considering a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the statutes of autonomous provinces in the process of giving consent to the National Assembly, a proposal to initiate the procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic, as well as the principles of application of the Constitution." "The board has 25 members. "Article 46 reads: "The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act, which is addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system" etc. Article 135 reads: "The draft law, before considering in the National Assembly, is considered by the competent committees and by the Government, if it is not the legislator". Paragraph 5 of Article 135 reads: "If the committees and the Government do not deliver reports, or opinion, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them, or to set a new deadline within which they are required to do so". The draft amendment to the Constitution of Serbia-Montenegro, the Constitutional Charter, the Bill for the Implementation of Amendments -- was not discussed by the Legislative Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not the committee responsible for deciding on the substance, whether the law is in line with the legal order and whether it can be given a positive opinion on the draft law. Of course, in the debate, I will try to prevent you from going wild on the Constitutional Charter, and repeat a mistake when you have been savaged by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because it does not accomplish anything – that and such an upside-down majority, which you think can do anything here. You've put us in a position where when you do all sorts of things in one state, you've been asking for approval for two years to repeat everything you've done. This bill cannot enter the procedure without consideration in the Legislative Committee. Whether you want it or not, that's the bill. As soon as there is a bill, the committee responsible is the Legislative Committee. I'd appreciate it if it hadn't been five days for the Legislative Committee's position, so you'd give us an explanation here. I would also respect that you have put forward a proposal to begin the debate without the opinion of the committee responsible, but that the committee responsible delivers an opinion during the debate. But you are ignoring the Legislative Committee, and you are changing the Constitution by law to implement two amendments to the Constitution. Of course, one who ignores the Constitution can ignore the Rules of Procedure, but that must not be a practice, must not pass without at least someone warning you. It's none of your business here to listen to government whatever it is it does. You've been doing it for a year and a few days and you've lost most of the electoral body you had when you formed the government. If you continue to do so, then no one will help you stop the election, no applications in Brussels, no more marriquettes with election deadlines. That is why I invite you, Mr. President, to state by reading the report why the session of the Legislative Committee has not been held and why you did not force the Legislative Committee to embarrass itself, so that he also says that this law is acceptable and that our amendments are not. I am very interested in the position of the MPs, who would rule that some laws are not allowed to be amended. I am very interested in you to justify that the Government has amendments to the Constitution, and MPs have no right to amendments; that you have given the Government the right to write amendments, and you have not given to the MPs; and amendments to amendments; and that is the bill. So I ask you today to suspend the debate on this agenda and call for a session of the Legislative Committee; if the President is "alien" again, you can be the President of the Assembly. You shall convene a session of the Legislative Committee, determine whether the bill is acceptable or not, whether amendments for rejection or not are for acceptance, whether amendments are legally possible, and then the Assembly shall continue to work, because you have convinced us for many months that the most important work on committees is. Even someone here is engrossed in the idea that amendments are no longer discussed by the Assembly, but only by committees. How can you convince me that committees have any importance when, for a change of constitution, you have not called upon a committee that is competent to deliver its opinion?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15860	I'm obliged to give notice when it comes to breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, of course, you all heard that during the transfer at the end of the first session, I called on the only committee responsible for the change of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. in this case the Constitutional Charter of Serbia-Montenegro, as the obligation is, under Article 62. Constitutional charters, that the amendment of the Constitutional Charter should be carried out in accordance with the procedure and in the manner in which it is brought. Since I did not participate, in no way, in the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, as well as in the decision of this Assembly – on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with all the documentation on how this Constitutional Charter and the Law on its Implementation was adopted, I asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the sole authority, I received the answer, as you all did, and I read those conclusions at the beginning. I remind myself once again of Article 67, and so did the Committee: "The law implementing the Constitutional Charter is adopted in the same way and at the same time with the Constitutional Charter". It was the only thing that I managed to do, on the legal principle that one who could do more can do less without doing the opposite. Therefore, the Legislative Committee has never been declared before when it comes to the Constitutional Charter or the Constitution. It's a notice I got from professional service, and that way I wasn't able to... You're not happy with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15861	You know, under Article 67. Constitutional charters, the amendment of the Constitutional Charter is done the way it was brought, so now I ask you: in the motion for change, does it have the signature of Miroljub Labus? If you want everything to be in line with the way the Constitutional Charter was brought in, then Miroljub Labus had to be the signator of the motion to change the Constitutional Charter. It's one thing you didn't respect. Secondly, I'm not saying amendments are a matter of the Legislative Committee. They are a problem for the Constitutional Affairs Committee. I'm talking about the law implementing the amendments. It's a classic law. It is a law on which the Legislative Committee must be declared, because it has been working on amendments, so the text of the law is much more extensive than the text of the amendment. To remind you, the amendments were said that elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly would be held after the elections were held in the republic's parliaments, and the law said "at the same time". It is not clear there – whether there will be elections for one or the other on the same day, or whether there should be republican elections first and then federal elections. The law said at the same time, the same day. It's not just that, you accept amendments and a law that will implement amendments. This law must be declared by the competent authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not by the competent services, Mr. President! This is the second time you've had burns, severe burns, dangerous as the president of the National Assembly, because you rely on the attitudes of the authorities. The last time you deceived the President of the Republic about the text of the passed law, you said it was the authorities. Don't hide behind the authorities anymore, as some hide behind minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15862	Thank you, I certainly won't hide behind a minor. I thank you for wanting to use "Salajic's Melem", we respect tradition. There's also Pavlovic's Fat. ) Please do not recommend my own experiences. I appreciate the well-meaning. It's for babies, I'm a grown man. I made it clear and loud that the competent services provided the Constitutional Affairs Committee with the materials requested, because it needed to see how the procedure was done. Not the signatories, but the way and procedure, because Article 62. The Constitutional Charter explicitly states that the amendment of the Constitutional Charter is done in accordance with the procedure and in the manner in which the Constitutional Charter is adopted. We're doing it right now. If you're not satisfied, we'll come to the vote in the day. Satisfied? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposer's representative, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15863	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Charter is more than a clearly defined way of electing MPs to the Assembly of the State. This, as you know, is the first two years indirectly from the Member States' congregations, the proportion of party representation in that body, followed by direct elections. Also, the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter is more than a clearly prescribed way of calling and holding these elections, as I believe, more than clearly prescribed any provision relating to the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. In view of such clear provisions and the fact that elections for the National Assembly, according to these two documents, were approaching, Serbia was ready to hold elections and you all know very well that at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the direct election of MPs in the National Assembly at the end of December of last year. Unfortunately, there was no election call. The reason is – there is no political will by another Member State. The most important goal for us right now is for Serbia, through the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, to enter Europe, or the European Union. The stance is, and we have repeatedly had the opportunity to hear from top EU officials, that the fastest and easiest goal both Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia-Montenegro will reach through the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Guided by this goal, the solution was made by a political compromise, on 7 April this year, here in Belgrade. An agreement amending the Constitutional Charter has been signed under the auspices of the European Union itself. Two key provisions of the political agreement concern not in the way MPs are elected to the National Assembly, which remains direct, but in time. The second provision is related to the possibility of calling a referendum in one of the Member States, if those after the end of the three-year period, as provided for by the Constitutional Charter, so wish; and that international recognition of democratic standards must be recognised, and that the regulation must be based on them; and that Member State which decides to call the referendum must cooperate with the European Union in compliance with these European democratic standards. These proposed amendments, which appear today in the form of these two, i.e. three amendments to the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, achieve two objectives: on the one hand, the preservation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is ensured, and on the other hand, it is faster entry into the European Union and Serbia-Montenegro. All of us, who participate in political life, make a good difference between parties. There are different programmes, different political interests and definitions regarding a formation called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and this historic issue that our generation of politicians has faced. In this generation of politicians, it seems to me that the primary task is to stop the collapse of the state and to preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty. Regardless of the many differences that exist between us, it seems to me that some new generations of politicians after us have a new and different task, which will be – to try to make this common state better and more functional. At this point, it is our primary task, as well as our priority state and national interest, to preserve at all costs the further collapse of the state. Therefore, in order for something to be fixed tomorrow, to be better and more functional, a prior and necessary condition is to preserve it today. Appreciateing your good intentions, I am fully convinced that you recognise these fundamental state interests, which is the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and in that preservation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija; I believe that, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia who unanimously adopted the proposals of these three amendments and the law for their implementation, today, with all our political, party reasons, you will accept by a vast majority of votes and amendments to amend the Constitutional Charter and the law itself for their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15864	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or Predrag Markovic's chairman, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Ristic, an authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15865	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the DS sees Serbia-Montenegro's state union as the legal-political framework that will lead Serbia-Montenegro to the European Union, with the aim of meeting the standards and values that exist in the European Union, which was a motive for creating a state union. As the basis for the creation of a state union, we saw, above all, good traditional relations between citizens of Serbia and Montenegro, historical ties, cultural, national, our historical roots. But also, looking to the future, towards the values that all citizens of Serbia and Montenegro should bring together, together with the countries of the modern and democratic world, we felt that this state community also provides institutional protection for human rights, so that, with the Constitutional Charter, the Small Charter of Human Rights, which has received very good criticism and very much support from all those who are democratically committed. The question has been raised here whether we should change the Constitutional Charter, whether we need a state union, whether we need to build mutual political relations between Serbia and Montenegro and do so in the state community. The DS has no dilemma in this regard and we believe that the state union has a future and that the Constitutional Charter is a constitutional and legal framework that allows both Serbia and Montenegro to realise all their political and other social interests within the state community. I do not agree with those who criticise the way in which the Constitutional Charter is changed and how the Law on the Implementation of Amendments is adopted, to which the Constitutional Charter is amended. Simply, the adoption process of the Constitutional Charter should be seen and seen from a historical and legal aspect. We had a federal state that didn't function, which was in deep constitutional crisis and it was necessary to transform it into a new state-law form. The form was found through the state union, organised by the Constitutional Charter, which provides a flexible legal framework for future dynamics in relations between Serbia and Montenegro. It is precisely this dynamic in relations between Serbia and Montenegro that has reached such a degree that it is necessary to correct the Constitutional Charter at this time. But, of course, with the consent of both state communities and without imposing final political solutions. I must remind myself that during the construction of the state community, during the reformation of earlier SRJ, there have been conflicting views, starting with the fact that the state union should be a unitary state, with every citizen in that future state having the right to vote, which would lead certain peoples into a situation to be majorised in relation to other peoples. However, it has come to the conclusion that the state union should be made up of Member States, which will have a sufficient degree of independence, but also a sufficient degree of responsibility for a common life and a common European future for citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. It is not true and it is not established that the Legislative Committee in this assembly should be declared on the law implementing the amendments or on the amendments themselves to the Constitutional Charter governing the state union. First of all, the way to adopt the Constitutional Charter makes it impossible. The Constitutional Affairs Committee is authorised to amend the Constitution, propose a new constitution, and therefore it has the authority to propose amendments to the Constitution and take positions on behalf of parliamentary groups on constitutional issues and has all the powers to appreciate the justification for the change of the Constitutional Charter. Since the Constitutional Charter adopts itself in the same text in both the Serbian parliament and the Montenegrin parliament, it is not allowed and it is not legally possible to amend it by amendments. Amendments submitted may only be treated as a political position or legal position in relation to the proposed amendment to the Constitutional Charter. However, this right is exhausted during the debate on the single issue of changing the Constitutional Charter and during the vote in the voting day. It is necessary to change the Constitutional Charter in order to bring life change and social relations into line with the legal state of affairs. Since the Constitutional Charter, primarily in the preamble, has defined both territorial integrity and overall integrity, primarily the Member State of Serbia, which has two provinces in its composition – AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, it is very important to preserve the state union, because the Belgrade Agreement guarantees Serbia's integrity right through the time maintenance of the state community. It also envisions that if a Serbian Member State blames an early break-up of the state community, it can rule out Serbia in final negotiations on Kosovo's status. It is therefore a state-of-the-art issue for every party in parliament, which will plead to change the Constitutional Charter, whether it will do its utmost to create a good political basis and a positive political will to maintain and redefine the state community in the proposed way. This guarantees Serbia's integrity and guarantees that Serbia will not be blamed for any political manipulation and manipulation in relations with another Member State. Otherwise, this is, in addition to being a legal issue, a few excels, a political issue, since amendments also mention a statement on the future status of the state union, i.e. the possibility of calling a referendum to determine the independence of one Member State in relation to another. Since this is such an important issue and is very often politicised, it is clear that there is a good will in both Member States to preserve the state union as a state-law instrument leading both Serbia-Montenegro towards European integration. Why are we thinking like this? Because the political elite in Montenegro has the opportunity to obstruct the development of mutual political relations by failing to adopt the amendments, but it shows a good will not to do so. It shows that it wants to give its legitimate right to a future, possible, declaration of independence, order in a European and democratic way. We must not fall into a political trap to contribute, in terms of this issue, to the deterioration of political relations, especially between political elites in Serbia-Montenegro and then to endanger the political and state-law status of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That is why I believe that this moment should put all party issues aside, and so should those who advocate an independent Serbia to postpone their party political stance, although legitimate, for a certain time, precisely because Serbia, because of its way of deciding on this issue, would not be the one responsible for the possible deterioration of political relations between the two Member States. Some say the procedure for changing the Constitutional Charter is not defined until the end, that there is no basis in the Constitution of Serbia, but I would like to remind them that the Constitutional Charter, in the hierarchy of legal acts, is a higher legal act than the Constitution of Serbia in those areas where legal and social issues are regulated at the level of the state community. That is why there are certain deadlines in which Serbia-Montenegro would be obliged to bring its constitution into line with the Constitutional Charter. Of course, due to a range of political circumstances, both in Serbia and Montenegro, the agreement did not take place. But I believe that all serious political parties want to contribute to the harmonisation of the legal system in the Member States, to bring the Constitution into line with the Constitutional Charter, but also to the area of mutually correcting political relations, with the aim of European integration and adoption of standards guaranteeing economic and political prosperity in society and institutional protection of human rights both in Serbia and Montenegro. That is why the DS will be for constitutional change, it will be for the adoption of amendments to the Constitutional Charter, because in this way we relax the relationship between the Member States, between Serbia and Montenegro, and we allow us to move faster in relaxed political systems towards European integration. We do not want to endanger this process and take responsibility for future negotiations on Kosovo's status with a mere obstruction. It, I repeat, has its guarantees territorially within Serbia as a Member State within the state community, armed at a minimum over a three-year period. Any attempt to destabilise the political relations that governs the state-law status of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, and those within the state union, as set out in the Constitutional Charter, mean behaviour that is contrary to Serbia's policy of interest and European integration policy. I would like to underline that the Constitutional Charter is based, above all, on the political statement of all European and democratic forces in Serbia, which participated in the process of building the state union and in the process of adopting the Constitutional Charter, which agreed that we are defined towards European integration and that we want to adopt everything that is in such integration positively and that corresponds to the interests of the citizens of Serbia, including Montenegro. (President: Mr. Ristic, do you use another ten minutes? I'm done. I call on you to support amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Charter in the voting day, as well as a law that technically only enables the implementation and harmonisation of the legal system at the level of the state community into a logical legal system, which provides its functionality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15866	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a long period of time, the SRS has both a hard and honorable job to stand up to in this assembly to everyone. The Constitutional Charter is the child of DOS, DOS in that composition or DOS in this composition, and of course I do not expect you from DOS to speak a word against the Constitutional Charter. But I don't expect you to be such hypocrites, and I don't expect you to count on our oblivion. Now I hear from the representatives of those who directly participated in the adoption of the Charter, that it was a road trip to the common state, because the R & D didn't work, so we're going to track it down and we're going to travel. The one who never worked on the construction site, the one who didn't make railways and roads, he can talk about continuous trassing, and the one who built it says, "The trassing is done quickly to get into the works, the track is marked by those who go ahead of the builder, and it's not a job to build a trassing." You now convince me that you are for the Charter because you want to preserve the common state, you convince me that Montenegro's leadership is for the common state, because you sent your representative to their pre-election rally the other day, and this is all about them, because they don't want a common state. Montenegro's leadership does not want a common state. If the Serbian government wanted it today, we wouldn't have to change the deadlines of the Constitutional Charter. You'd do something from the Constitutional Charter. We warned you in January 2003, this is what you write to buy time. You're extending this today to get time. As long as you tell me. To a referendum in Montenegro? As you're in the reasoning of the Constitutional Charter, where this professor was writing that argument. You called the Constitution SRJ the so-called so-called SRJ."The Frog Constitution," and that constitution has been trampled harshly and brutally. The SRJ Constitution has started with illegality and unconstitution in Serbia. When the Constitution of the SRJ was not sacred to you, of course the laws of Serbia were not sacred to you and that you were a representative of the company that held the country in occupation, in emergency condition, and that arrested 13-14 thousand people and conducted proceedings against 10 or 20 people. Why are you telling us here about the Constitutional Charter and the need to extend the deadlines of the Constitutional Charter? You don't have to convince us, convince the DPS, who you're helping with the elections in Montenegro, convince G-17 plus, and he's against the common state. Don't convince Serbian radicals, don't convince Serbian citizens, because we are convinced that without a common state there is no survival and no survival of Kosovo and Metohija, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. Otherwise, this rampage of yours and the experience of the Constitution of the SRJ, and above the Constitutional Charter, wouldn't have gone down like this. I also read this hypocritical explanation of the Serbian government, which says -- the amendments finally establish the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro. So, there's been a threat to functioning, and now it says, we're adopting amendments and we're working on Serbia-Montenegro. First, the government could not have proposed this act, because if you want the Constitution to change by procedure and the way it was brought in, what was involved in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Did she propose to us the Constitutional Charter? It's not. He proposed to us Solana, Labus, Djindjic, Kostunica, Milo Djukanovic, who still attended and signed there. So these are the promoters of the Constitutional Charter, but not the proponents of the common state, but the motions of the act that you want to deceive us, the act that you have destroyed the common state. You immediately argued about the name: and you from Serbia said it was a state union, and those from Montenegro said it was a community of states. And how then, even now, because what the water is spilling, of which bread is made, how the flour comes out under the watery dot, so is the bread for you. Insolvent partners have written to us the Constitutional Charter, non-solid partners in the same composition now suggest that we nominate the sins of both your authorities and these current Governments of the Republic of Serbia. None of you have moved for the Constitutional Charter, for the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro, for the functioning of the so-called state union or community of states. You treat Serbia-Montenegro as a third country, you care about Serbia, they care about Montenegro, and nobody cares about Serbia-Montenegro. You sent the band that you needed to get out of here, you sent Vuk Draskovic there, who is urgently to be removed from political life, best there, but you forgot that he's going to travel around the world, so you have to go after him to correct what's wrong with foreign policy. You have appointed Davinic as defence minister, but you have forgotten that he can destroy the army. He got a round of applause in Brussels when he said the army was bankrupt. There is no longer a major danger for Europe, the Serbia-Montenegro Army has destroyed Prvoslav Davinic. That the army is richer than the state and that has the property that you're now sharing among members of G-17 plus and foreigners, it's nothing to anyone. But what do we do? You kept quiet when you retired generals, colonels, colonels, majors, captains, anyone who participated in the war. You were silent when the facilities began, one by one, to disappear from the Yugoslav Army, the Serbia-Montenegro Army, and now it has come to an end and now you will fire another 7,000 employees in Serbia-Montenegro's military to save. That's how Serbia and Montenegro work. I know this looks like a biting for painful places, but it's not my goal. I'm stating the facts, and you come here and justify yourselves. Rub "Salic's Melem" in painful places. You see, it's easy to break a country. Here, Kostunica invented the best way to break the state, made the government with a G-17 plus, with SPO-NS, with the support of the SPS. Could it be the government? It could, it could be the government, yeah, it could be, but it could be a bad government. And it's not the government, it's the five governments, so it's the five prime ministers. Everyone as an aga "obsessed" their own portfolio, each of their own ministry; Kostunica must not say a word to any coalition partners, because the word brings four votes to the assembly and the government falls. Is the government successful? Come on, you guys have these things that you pay to get you a real analysis, what are the results of the analysis? So which one of you is parliamentary? (Dear Shormaz, from the "I" place, you are, and that's why you vote as they say. And I saw, you're doing great, you're up until now, Shormaz, I've been coming to the Assembly, and now you're getting beautiful, I admit it. But I'm waiting for you when you're in opposition to make yourself look better, because that's where the points are. Why the Constitutional Charter, why the amendments to the Constitutional Charter, why give forgiveness to both government and government for what they didn't do? Here, I accept, call the elections, that Serbia chooses a new government in the Serbian Parliament and that government to give it a year or two years to implement the Constitutional Charter. But to those of you two years of time, we can't give you another minute. You didn't provide us with information here about what you did, what you did to avoid any amendments to the Constitutional Charter. Let me tell you what we have done – we have forced you to adopt the Law on selecting MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, but you have not gone further than that. You're even going, Mr. Loncar, why I asked the Legislative Committee to look at the bill; by the Constitutional Charter, by the legal system, you're restoring the conditions for selecting MPs from an existing law. In Article 2(2), I think, you're acting...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15868	Excuse me, Mr. Nikolic, will you use the other 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15869	Yeah. You act like we haven't passed the Law on selecting MPs. You say: there will be rules from the time the parliaments sent MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Serbia doesn't have that law, it doesn't exist, it's erased. Serbia has a new law, Serbia cannot give you ambassadors from here to replace MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, but it cannot be new. So, because elections have not been held, you act as if nothing is happening in Serbia. God forbid, if an MP died today in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, he couldn't be replaced. There is no parliamentary list from which to be selected, it is not worth what you write now that it will be selected by procedure and in the way they were elected under that law that no longer applies. Why didn't you come here with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electoral MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, why didn't you accept our proposal a few months ago? We were first aware that the MPs could no longer be replaced, and now everything is written there - from the list from which MPs were elected in the direct elections, and you did not keep them. The culprit for this prolonging of implementation of the Constitutional Charter in both Montenegro and Serbia is the government. You are a democratic authority that has not held the elections in the Constitution provided for by the deadline. Find me a country in a world whose representative might appear in an international organisation and say: we are a democratic state, only to hold elections in the Constitution as scheduled. If they ask you why you didn't, you can't say there was no war, or there was floods, fires, earthquakes, because the country was in a perfectly normal state. You are the government that Europe wants in Serbia, because when you did not hold elections, you did not give citizens the right to decide who would be in power, Europe commended you and gave you a positive assessment of the studio performance. What did you appreciate in that feasibility study? Just co-operation with The Hague. If they appreciated how much democracy there is in the country, they would ask Europe to radicalize as soon as possible. Should I have asked adviser Milo Djukanovic to hear that Vojislav Kostunica in Brussels asked not to hold elections, that Europe would be silent that radicals would not come to power. Why doesn't Kostunica say that on state television? One, Vuk Draskovic said 15 days ago: we cannot hold elections now, radicals will come to power, which is, he says, dark for Serbia. He has the right to think so, of course. Let Vojislav Kostunica think so, but let him tell the citizens of Serbia. The easiest way is this: Serbia moves to Montenegro, Montenegro moves to Serbia, and you people "sweep and watch", struggle and watch when they part! What are you actually doing? You're turning against the idea of a state of all Serbian citizens. They lose their nerve, lose their patience, they don't know what your attitude is. You think they trust you when you come out here and say, "We're for the common state." How can they trust you when you support the worst possible option in Montenegro - DPS? How can they trust representatives of G17 plus when their leaders, three leaders, openly say: we are against the common state. Then why are you writing this to us? That you're implicating us in the story of it. Who thinks well of Serbia, the common state, who thinks well of Kosovo and Metohija – he will not obstruct this. Let's stop doing politics then. Come on, you in power, don't even call the election anymore. You don't need an election, you have power. That was also in Nazi Germany. That Otto von Kerajer said: what the mediators between the people and the president, what the assembly, what the MPs will do, I guess the president knows what the people think, and he will lead the state. So do you now. What do you need the National Assembly's opinion? You didn't even come for the opinion of the National Assembly. If you had come, you would have asked us what that text should look like. You here, according to the manners of your teachers from Europe and the world -- stick and carrots, take or leave. The National Assembly again, for the second time, is in a position to accept what you have suggested or not to accept, but cannot change. What is the fate of what the National Assembly should not change? You're changing it two years later. Wasn't it better if we thought about it two years ago? What kind of debate is this in the National Assembly, when you are already telling us that it must be in the same text in which it is in the Parliament of Montenegro? Whether they say the same thing - we would change, but it must be the same as in the Serbian Parliament. We'll vote against it. None of you from other parties love Montenegro more than we do – Serbian radicals. None of you want a common state anymore. I'm sorry we can't influence that. I'm sorry we're in opposition, if for nothing else, because of Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija. But I don't trust either of you to truly want a common state with Montenegro. You're taking it more and more as a burden. If that wasn't a burden to you, you'd be engaged politically in Montenegro on that idea. Here, we're engaged. We participate in local elections in Montenegro, we will participate in parliamentary elections, and we present ourselves to the people as people who want a common state. Nothing more. We become parliamentary everywhere we participate in the elections. Now, come on, you who can't be parliamentary here, maybe you can go to Montenegro. Maybe people read you. Maybe the separatists will split up and vote for some of you. But don't go to Montenegro to support the separatist parties, and here in the Serbian Parliament you condemn radicals if they vote against. That's absolutely immoral. If the main DS associate in Montenegro – DPS, then you are not in favour of the common state. That's common sense. If you haven't done anything while you've been in charge of the Constitutional Charter being implemented, you're not for the common state. You ladies and gentlemen of the majority, think carefully about why you're prolonging the deadline you're giving time to. Do you give the governments time to agree and lead the common state? No, you're giving Montenegro time to organise a referendum. You can't wait for that referendum to work. Don't deceive us by how the referendum will finally, like, be democratic, by European standards, by international standards. That's how you deceived us when you gave us the Constitutional Charter. It, under Articles 16 and 60, has the obligation to comply with international standards for the referendum to comply with international rules. You didn't write anything new except to deceive us. That's why I'm asking you one more time to think this through. You can write whatever you want, sign whatever you want, but if you keep this up, the states won't be. Don't be embarrassed next year. When you run out of deadlines from this charter and when we come out to criticize you again, don't be embarrassed, because if you have a sense of shame and shame, it should catch you now and today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15870	Replica, MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15871	Mr. Nikolic, the government, even though you wouldn't want it, works well. The most important thing is that, due to all citizens of Serbia, a positive assessment of the feasibility study has been obtained. Don't say, casually, what she means. It means assessing the overall economic and political reforms in our country. This is in a certain way and in support of reforms, as well as a guideline to which we should go and what we should do next, which is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You also saw, and this is a picture of Serbia at the moment, as the annual "European Bank for Reconstruction and Development" assembly in Belgrade looked like, what it means to organise such a set and what effects are expensive, in terms of attracting new investments in our country, because 350m euros in contracts of different types, which represent direct investment for different jobs, which are for roads, railways, schools, hospitals, undeveloped municipalities, etc. In this way a good picture was created about the state of Serbia now, and more importantly – an even better political climate for investing and investing in our country in the future. What is very important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is implementing them from this set, and otherwise, as far as reform is concerned. G17 Plus is the strongest link in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You had an initiative to bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia in parliament. She's a failure. I will remind you that 115 MPs voted for it, and then count to 250; if we do not count one unfortunate apostle, 134 was against your initiative in various ways. And if we talk about it, and very often we try to use the assembly pay phone in a political campaign, I'll tell you that the elections are December 28th, 2007. But we'll do you a favor, since it's not Sunday 28th, let it be December 23rd, 2007 - Sunday. (President: Time, Mr. Albianic. ) As for our country's European Serbia programme, under the slogan "Serbia First", we are proud of it, and we do not give up on that programme. You also called Minister Davinic, I say the property is not shared with strangers or anyone in Serbia. According to the government of Serbia's regulation, military property, which is planned for this, can go for sale in order to reform the military properly, and in the future to bring about military professionalisation. So don't mention the army in an untasteable way, which is a significant institution in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15872	Thank you. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15873	This is where the dignity of the National Assembly was injured, because the predecessor was celebrating some sort of rally, the power of the state in the organization of some sort of rally. Let me remind you, Mr. Albianic, you weren't so small, Tito organized such gatherings in Belgrade, that the whole world was shaking. Now, why don't you say that the new condition is to stop funding pensions from the budget? Why don't you say it's 40% less pensions? Why don't you say that your authority is pleased with Europe, but not a satisfied people? What did you say was that you are the largest link in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when I know, American research says you only have 3.8% of the electoral body? How long does this happy DSS have, if you're the strongest with 3.8%? You say – December 23, 2007; I think we will tell your players much faster: "Good night".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15874	Thank you. The word is by MP Bosko Ristic, a replica to the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15875	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can agree that there are parties here, which are parliamentary and who run a hypocritical policy, which one they talk about, and the other they do, one they stand for, one they vote for. That's right. In this parliament, there are those who advocate independent Serbia, who will vote to amend the Constitutional Charter, which will allow the functioning of the state union. On the other hand, I would like to point out the view of the Democratic Party, which has consistently implemented the idea of a common state with Montenegro, because we believe that the common state is the best legal-political framework that leads Serbia-Montenegro towards European integration. In view of our position, we have also voted for the Constitutional Charter itself and the Law on its implementation. It is true that in this House, the parties who voted against the Constitutional Charter Law and tried to extend the entry into force of the Constitutional Charter and the formation of the institutions of the state union. That is true, and Serbian citizens have a good memory of recognising those parties that are inconsistencies in their political activities, which put their party interests and survival in certain positions ahead of the interests of Serbia-Montenegro's citizens. The Democratic Party, its officials and its policy certainly do not represent such an inconsistencies policy. We advocate European integration, for co-operation with international institutions. It is true that we are also in favour of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because we want the truth about crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia to be examined entirely and to the end, because crimes have neither color nor nation nor religion. There are criminals who have been inspired and criminals who have executed them. It is true that there are parties that, in principle of "stick and carrots", only formally advocate co-operation with international institutions, and they do not care about the truth, but only care about formal recognition and acceptance of the Performance Study. The Democratic Party is not such a party, it sincerely implements its political programme and what it promises, it does. It is certain that amendments, which change the way MPs are elected to the state union parliament, do not correspond to the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party would have a much stronger representation in the state union parliament in direct and direct elections than it is now. We now have a smaller delegation of representatives in the parliament of the state union than we would have in direct elections. But, as I just told you, the Democratic Party does not put its party interests ahead of state interests. We care about preserving Serbia's territorial integrity, which is guaranteed by the preamble of the Constitutional Charter, and we believe that those who advocate Kosovo and Metohija in the framework of Serbia, and who vote against documents that enable the functioning of the state community, are working against Serbia's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15876	Thank you. In accordance with Article 96, I am obliged to give my word to the MPs who appear for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In this sense, the word has been made by the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and then by the People's Messenger Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15877	My dear sir, I'll read you article 3. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter, and after that I may not have to say anything, but I will say, "All institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will be established, educated, or elected within 30 days of the entry into force of the Constitutional Charter." It was February 4, 2003, when you were in power. Did you establish all the organs? How long did it take you to choose a court? Have you brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia into line with the Constitutional Command? You wrote us one misleading act. You didn't want to, you couldn't have brought everything into line with the Constitutional Command. Don't tell lies here. We are for the common state - we are not for the Constitutional Charter. So what? That's why I was in favour of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The one who violated the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was not for the common state. Under that constitution, no one could secede without the consent of the other republic. According to your Constitutional Charter, it is enough for one Member State to make a decision on the secession and it is leaving. Who isn't for the common state? Who, by his behavior, showed that it was not for the common state? You, dear DOS gentlemen, you've been moving for a year, and you haven't moved in a year and a half. And this federal court, which you've barely chosen, you know how it makes decisions now? He says, you have complained to the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, he no longer exists, we will no longer engage in this case. Citizens no longer have any protection. You know that very well. What was being protected by the federal constitution -- it no longer protects him, since he was never protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, no one protects him anymore. That's the kind of state you've created for us. So tell them how much it cost you to get Milo and Sveta Marovic to drive around Budva, to give them a campaign, how many speedboats, cigarettes, hats, and what it actually binds you to DPS, and you're against the secession of Montenegro from the federal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15878	Mr. Nikolic, you've reached out to a member of the 96th and thus gained advantage over the MPs who wanted to give a replica. According to article 96, I gave you my word and that's your right. Please state next time which member you object to, because this is how we get into an awkward situation. That's what you said in your first presentation, and that's not what you said in this one. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Please state the member you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15879	It's clear, Article 100. - the dignity of the Assembly. I would ask all MPs to return to the agenda, stop with the old pain of the 19th century Serbian political scene, with the party, what we are now attending, because there is nothing to explain who is the main link in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is known who has the Prime Minister, the majority in the government of the Republic of Serbia and who has the most MPs in the republic's parliament. We have nothing to talk about hypocrisy, because our representative of a party's wing, such as Nenad Bogdanovic in the Democratic Party, was not in Budva at the rally and at the promotion of Milo's party in local elections, those who advocate Montenegro's secession from Serbia, and here they talk about the common state. So that's not how we behave. But also, I ask you to pay attention to the text and focus on what is changed in this Constitutional Charter, that we do not fall much on the tricks that experienced MPs from the opposition – from the SRS, and we argue here instead of talking about what are the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15880	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Miloljub Albianic, a replica to the presentation of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15881	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic had no basis for reporting to the Rules of Procedure after my replica. It is not good for us to appear in the Rules of Procedure and abuse the same, in violation of it. I'll tell you that you violated him by still forgetting my last name. So I'm Albianic, and I don't understand why in such an unworthy way you're trying to disrespect my last name. So that name has its roots, it has tradition, it has everything that belongs to one Serbian family and I don't understand what your intention is and your goal is. What's very important, the results of the government will certainly come out when the time comes, and you stay and regret it here for Tito, by mentioning it at the Parliament's pay phone, and you remember your action with a glog on "The House of Flowers". So much for consistency. As for the coalition, certainly the DSS is the largest link in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and G17 plus is the strongest link. I want to, I suppose, as well as my dear colleague, that there is even stronger mutual coalition co-operation in the government and that we are promoting it, and that kind of co-operation can be seen in the last period. What opposition people have accused us of, which is that the ministries are separate and do not cooperate in the best way, is not true. It is now seen that coalition co-operation has improved in the last period and I hope that this will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15882	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. This is a replica of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's first presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15883	Replication to Mr Tomislav Nikolic's first and second presentations and the second announcement by Mr Bosko Ristic. Happy or unhappy DSS, you can call us whatever you want, in any case we're satisfied with our work so far. The citizens will assess it in the elections, reward us or sanction us. The election will come sooner or later, and we're not afraid of that test, of course. As for the declaration and non-declarative push for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, if the previous government had the goal of achieving full and unambiguous co-operation with The Hague tribunal, why didn't it and what were you waiting for? The government has opened the issue in a different way, insisting on two-way co-operation, slowly resolving it, which has provided us with a positive assessment of the feasibility study and the start of association and stabilisation negotiations. Speaking of the Constitutional Charter, who's in favour of the state community and who's not, our only goal is to stop the state from breaking up. If some people are already saying that this is how the state breaks down, I'd ask you what's going to happen if we don't change the Constitutional Charter. Let's go to direct elections. What happens if direct elections do not take place in Montenegro? Are we going to send an army to open polling stations? Shall we radicalize the situation? Are we going to close the border between the Preferial and the White Field again? We want to preserve the state community through agreement and political compromise, that in this way, in a much more relaxed atmosphere, we welcome the spring of 2006, because the preservation of the state community is the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija within Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15884	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15885	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, I remain on the stand from a recent discussion that the Democratic Party is leading an honest and consistent policy, as well as that direct elections for the Assembly of the state union would be favourable to the Democratic Party, given the support it enjoys in the electoral body in Serbia. But we have put our party interests behind the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro. The interests of European integration are the first and number one for Serbian citizens. So their good life and their ability to protect their rights through institutions. The question has been raised here why the Democratic Party, while in power, did not make the institutions of the state union be established as soon as possible. I would like to remind all those who have forgotten that our President Zoran Djindjic was killed the day before the Council of Ministers was established, because that day was declared D's day, when the killing of the prime minister was due to bring down the then reform government and prevent the constitution of the Council of Ministers, that the state would become unauthorized and that the mafia-political structures in co-operation would take over the state. Serbian citizens remember that. Thus, the Democratic Party lost its ability to contribute significantly to this critical period of constitution of the federal state institutions. The vacuum did delay the institution's constitution at the level of the state community. That's why I want us to remember that. The DS remained consistent with the idea of the state union and the specific relations between Serbia-Montenegro defined through the state union, all on the path of integration with Europe and the adoption of standards and values that apply in the European Union, which are beneficial for citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. We'll stand for it consistently, and that's how we'll vote. The issue is right for those who are not for the common state, who are voting to amend the Constitutional Charter, so that they do not come into a position to check their relationship with Serbian voters, the support that Serbian citizens give to those parties, because they could not cross the censorship. They would show their political impotence. Also, why those who oppose the state union in their party's programme will vote for this. Is it a matter of mere preservation of power and mere settlement within the ruling coalition? We will leave this to the citizens of Serbia to consider and to set themselves up and set out in support of the next elections. The DS consistently implements its political programme and will remain consistent with common interests with citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15886	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15887	Dear colleagues, I call on article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, first and second position, therefore, on the need to safeguard the dignity of this congregation and to communicate with one another with respect. When Mr. Ristic comes out and says something, keep it quiet, and say another time, and shut up again. But we can't tolerate that there's a three-time notorious incriminating from this pay phone, because it's a misrepresentation of this assembly and the MPs, who in the last session were witnesses of what Mr. Ristic was doing from this pay phone. I'll remind you of that. What did DS stand for when the Constitutional Charter was passed, and why didn't you advocate direct elections then? Which political group was on the committee that worked on the Constitutional Charter, advocated the indirect elections, and who, after all, voted for indirect elections? The DOS from Serbia, which represented, among other things, both Bosko Ristic and the DPS from Montenegro, and thanks to those majority in the constitutional commission in the Constitutional Charter, indirect elections for the first assembly of parliament were put in place. Then what happened? On February 13, 2003, here's a stenogram, this assembly passed the Law on selecting MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. At that time, the assembly and all the authorities of the state union are fully delegated. Mr. Ristic, do you remember that? You took the parliamentary groups in the Assembly as the basis for the selection of mandates in the Federal Assembly. Beyond all legal and political norms and anything. That's when you stole your mandates in the Federal Assembly. You didn't have time to construct the majority there, but you invented parliamentary groups as the basis and introduced Banet Ivkovic and his phantom group, thus providing a majority in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. What are you talking about then? Are you talking about your consistent struggle for the common state, as well as about you guarding that state? That's not true. As you stole your mandates in this congregation, so you stole your mandates in that congregation from the beginning. For that there are facts, there are papers, there are documents. It's probably not what Nenad Bogdanovic told the citizens of Budva the other day, he didn't tell them what you're saying here. You're telling us that Nenad Bogdanovic at the Budva rally told us that DS advocates the common state; did he invite them to vote to preserve the common state, do you say? Tell the truth here, tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia... (President: Time.) ) The citizens of Montenegro know what Nenad Bogdanovic told them, you tell the citizens of Serbia here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15888	You've advertised the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 100, and I must admit, I didn't understand you very well, I don't believe I can answer you, I haven't been able to send your discussion in general. The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15889	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard that the previous speaker has abused the Rules of Procedure by reporting and advertising the injury and essentially reporting for discussion. But I don't blame him, I just want to answer a few facts. First of all, how it was decided by the Constitutional Commission who worked on the Constitutional Charter. By having had to have a majority from each delegation and from each parliament for each decision concerning the state community. The DS is therefore not an isolated factor operating in the constitutional commission. We did this together and we had a co-chairing, as well as a certain relationship between parliamentary parties that reflected on individual decisions and solutions. As for the term of office in the previous meeting, again, for who knows which time, I must remind you that the first term in this assembly was taken by Mr Jocic, by his signature, and Mr Ljubo Slavkovic of Social Democracy, based on the decision of the DOS presidency, where he also voted, Mr Kostunica. Thus, the suspension of the term of office began due to disrespect for the electoral will of citizens and because of the lack of respect for the policy gathered in the then DOS. As for the mandate and in this session, I will remind Mr Djokovic, who left the DSS, and how the mandate was taken from him. If you are consistent, honest, legalists, if you respect the Constitutional Court's decision, if you respect this country's legal system, you should have in an elegant and correct way let a man express his political will, express his political dissension with your policy. He stood up precisely against that hypocrisy and against that inconsistencies in the policy I was just talking about. This is not currently a question that deals with the agenda here and the issue of changing the Constitutional Charter. This is a question of the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the interest of the citizens of Montenegro. We, as I have said so far, will be pushing for the adoption of an amendment to the Constitutional Charter, which will allow the legal functioning of the state union to relax political relations between Serbia and Montenegro. I hope they will also relax the relations between the parliamentary parties in this House. So let's put that aside and I'll put an end to it, and I won't be answering any more of any replicas, no matter what they say, and no matter how they call themselves DS and me personally. I won't answer unless it applies to the agenda. I think it is both pragmatic and politically correct and consistent to change the Constitutional Charter and achieve a legal-political framework for the development of relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15890	I thank you for your correct exposure. Still, we move on. Here you go. Tell a member of the Rules of Procedure, and then let's extend it to six hours, if that's what you've decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15891	Rules of Procedure, Rule 99: An MP may speak about what is on the agenda in the congregation. I'd like to speak to you from the DS, because there are safe and honorable people here. Why are you letting them give us a sermon of people who have a lot of good in their biography, who waved cards, stole parliamentary mandates, brought Bojan Kostreš from the League of Social Democrats to rule the Vojvodina. Many of your party in Vojvodina, for a period of three years of government, have made enormous wealth and started with that parole – "who works should have". And they don't tell them where they got the wealth. Come out who are a little more honorable, so tell us something if you have, don't let go of those naughty ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15892	I don't think it's correct to address the MPs this way. I'd like you to take care of that. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15893	It's not my intention to drag the work of this congregation and go out on the line for the last time, either, but simply some things must lead to the truth here. Mr. Ristic tried to reverse it. That's from that classic theme replacement system: you're talking about something else. I said and I repeat that it was true, Mr. Ristic, that it was decided, when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, by most delegation votes. That's what I'm saying, but you used most of the votes in the Serbian delegation to impose indirect elections. Why? It's simple. At that point, you had 10% confidence in Serbia. If you had attended the direct elections then, the then DOS, which you represented, would have had a federal assembly of seven or eight mandates, and would not have weighed 46 mandates, which, later on, through that law, you managed to fight there in the Assembly. You wouldn't rule there for two years. In March 2003, power would be established in another way and the other majority would form power in the state community, Mr Ristic, and these are the facts I am talking about. As I am telling you about Nenad Bogdanovic, tell the citizens of Serbia what he said in Budva. It's your political right, that's your political stance, but don't talk there, don't give them support and influence directly on the outcome of these elections, and tell us here that you are fundamentally, co-existantly, for years for a socialist state. It's just that it's two incompatible things and it can't. Common sense doesn't allow that. Tell your political views briefly and clearly and precisely, that we all know that, don't mix.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15894	I think we could continue on the agenda points. You're reporting as an authorised representative of the Parliament Club, I hope. Ivica Dacic as an authorised representative of the SPS and then Milojub Albianic. Excuse me, Mr. Dacic, you're the president of the Parliament Club. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15895	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know that it is not easy for the presidents to listen to criticism at the expense of the party they represent, but in any case it is true what is said here. Dragoljub Micunovic was elected by Banet Ivkovic's decisive knightate voice, who won the vote by stealing in this parliament. Also, it is obvious that the constitution of the state community and the authorities of the state community was carried out with the theft of parliamentary mandates, and as you know, we were then against such a way and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. And, of course, as it was heard here in the debate, we believe that the form of a state community that was defined by the past Constitution of the SRJ, the form of a Federation, is an optimal form for the functioning of the common state of two peoples and two republics. At the time of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic's authorities, it was often used as an alibi, and even many, who are sitting here today talking about the common state, supported Milo Djukanovic, as he allegedly struggled for democratic values, and realized this time, when the SPS was not in power, that it was just an excuse and that the basic problem in the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's community was the separatist drive of Montenegrin leadership. We were against such a constitutional charter, we voted "against", we felt that, despite what might have been a necessary compromise, it was not good that this compromise was reached with the intervention of some international representatives who led the main word in the bombing of our country. Also, we have always been against making up forms of state union in Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro. You remember that during the past Yugoslavia, it was defined as a cognac of brotherhood and unity, so the bloodiest possible disintegrated. Thus, the constitutional charter defined the form of community, which even those who wrote it could not precisely define whether it was a Federation or a confederacy. In other words, we have brought such a constitutional charter that has defined such a form of community that is virtually nowhere in the world. It is not true that the institutions and bodies provided for by the Constitutional Charter were not built and elected in time only because Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed in Serbia. It's not true, because the deadline was very long, the state of emergency didn't last that long. As you know, the Assembly was also in session at a time of emergency. True, there was no TV transmission at that time, either in a peaceful, or in a state of emergency. In any case, there was enough time to establish the authorities of the state community, but it was obvious that even then Serbia's leadership of Montenegro was not of first-rate importance to establish the state union. For several reasons, despite being against this constitutional charter and this form of community, we in the SPS are livingly insisting on Serbia-Montenegro's unity. There is no closer people for Serbs than is Montenegrin. Let all those who belong here be excused by other peoples and national minorities. I don't want to get into whether it's the same people or not, everyone has the right to call themselves their own name, but how someone can ask us to work on a common life or on the co-existence of Serbs and Albanians in southern Serbia, Serbs and Hungarians, Serbs and Muslims, Serbs and Croats, and on the other hand, so easily speak to us about what we need together with Montenegro. Montenegro lives for the time being, according to the list, at least a third of those who plead as Serbs. A decision on Montenegro's independence, if made in a referendum, will be made on an anti-Serbian basis. So, the anti-Serbian coalition of separatists, and the Montenegrin people, both Muslims and Albanians in Montenegro. How can it be so easy for me, as the great politician, the giant proportions -- Vladan Batic today says, that Serbia should simply say "no" to Montenegro's historic "no". To say historic "no" to his brothers, and to say historic "yes" to breaking Serbia into several pastures and bringing Serbia to Belgrade's pasture level. Also DS. I hope the DS presidency responds to this public call by Ljuba Tadic, academics, father of President Boris Tadic, whom, truth be told, the son did not listen to even when voting on partisans and Chetniks, but fine. I hope that the DS presidency will respond whether Nenad Bogdanovic represents the views of Cedomir Jovanovic or the positions of DS – the positions of Cedomir Jovanovic; or whether the DS will publicly state whether Goran Svilanovic's views and their views, since he was almost in their parliamentary group; or Natasa Micic, who, I read in the paper, as well as Zarko Korac, will participate in some first historic meeting of Albanians and Serbs in Pristina or I don't know somewhere in Kosovo and represent unofficially-official Belgrade. They go there not to be on the Serbian side, but to the Albanian side. We're talking about official DS policy here. I'm just asking the chairman, if he hasn't changed, not to rephrase after this, but to report for the replica, so he can replicate to me, so I can answer him. In any case, we, regardless of what we did not vote for the Constitutional Charter, are interested in the survival of Serbia-Montenegro's community. Whether these amendments will contribute to this life together remains to be seen. We also respect the view that it is absolutely unacceptable for different political parties in Serbia to have different political views on this important issue. As it is important for all parties in Serbia to have common views around Kosovo and Metohija, it is very important that we have a unique position on relations with Montenegro and Montenegro, or on Serbs living in Montenegro. Is it the historic interest of Serbia and Serbs to live in the common state and in association with Montenegro? It's our opinion: yes. If such a non-functional community, such as the current one, is broken down, there is a great danger of realising what has already been said several times, that a Cosmet already considers practically the third federal or confederal unit of this state community, some future state union of Serbia, Montenegro and Cosmeta. How do those who are in international organisations and institutions know that already slowly some in the world are starting to call our national community. Also, as you know, it is very important that our political parties have a clear view of whether citizens of Montenegro living in Serbia should have the right to vote in a referendum in Montenegro. Because it is absolutely unacceptable that Montenegrins, citizens of Montenegro living in Croatia, Bosnia or Albania, America, may be able to vote, and Montenegrins, citizens of Montenegro or Serbia who came here from Montenegro, will not have the right to vote in a future referendum in Montenegro. It is absolutely important for all political parties in Serbia, therefore, that we have a common position on the issue. Absolutely irrelevant is the state union, Serbia-Montenegro's unity is important. Whether Montenegro and Serbia will be in union in the form of a Federation, confederate or unitary state is less important than whether the community will be at all. Of course, co-operation cannot be a common ground, but let's not forcefully and artificially create divisions between Serbia and Montenegro. I'm not sure this proposal for constitutional change will be accepted in Montenegro as well. Also, in these times when we are facing a lot of difficult questions about Kosovo and about Republika Srpska, and trying to revise the Dayton Agreement, we think it is very important that the political parties in Serbia have a unique and common position on this issue, regardless of what we are different, which perhaps in a political sense we do not think the same thing, which we differ in strategic, ideological and all other issues about the state and the people. So there shouldn't be any difference. The SPS will continue to be life-longly interested in the survival of Montenegro and Serbia's union, viewing what was made in the previous period as a historic mistake -- the breaking of the federal state of Serbia-Montenegro and what was called, the common state, although there were many problems in its functioning. We will contribute, we will vote in favour of these constitutional changes, exclusively for reasons -- the desire to survive Serbia-Montenegro, Serbs and Montenegrins, Serbs and all citizens of Montenegro, whether they feel like Serbs or Montenegrins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15896	Mr. Dacic, there's no need for you to call me, as you know, to choose the discussion I'm going to engage in, if I wanted to, I would have answered by now. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15897	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments to the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of Amendments. What's our goal? Our goal is Serbia in the European Union. We must become an economically strong, legally regulated and democratically stable state, in one word, leader in the Balkans. So we stand for a functional, efficient and thrift state, for a better and fairer life of an ordinary man. The state has to take care of every citizen, the state has to take care of the people in general. When we look at the situation, we have to tell you where we are right now. It's a good thing the G-17 plus proposal was accepted a few months ago to change the Constitutional Charter. You remember well, we said that direct elections are needed to delay and that, in the meantime, the state of Serbia cares about its interests, this is the European path and the question of Kosovo and Metohija. We also suggested that the referendum be held in Montenegro. Of course, the position G-17 plus is to be held in both Member States, to see what citizens think about this issue. We have fought for a double track of accession to the European Union. Also, you know well that at this point, the state of Serbia stands out 95% of the cost, and Montenegro 5%, and the government is divided half-half. You know we have diplomacy at the level of the state community, but we also have it in Montenegro. We are aware of the fact that in two states we have different money and different customs. When we look at all this, we don't have a functional state. When we know what the goals are, when we see the current situation, the question comes before us – what we practically have to do. We must protect our national interests and the dignity of the citizens of Serbia, because the state exists because of the citizens and should ask the citizens what they want – one or two states. We should have referendums where citizens decide what state they want to live in. Of course, we must have stability in this period, in order to concentrate energy on reforms, European integration and resolving the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. We need to agree with official Montenegro, in the mutual interest, because only developing regional co-operation is important between different regions, between local municipalities, and not to mention that we need to speed up and develop co-operation between Serbia and Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen, G-17 plus will support these amendments and the law on implementation, because to overcome the current crisis, we will support the proposal that we have actually submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15898	Here you go. Dusan Prorokovic, deputy head of the DSS parliamentary club, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15899	Dear People's MPs, unfortunately, today we are witnessing a change in the provisions of the Constitutional Charter that have been laid down earlier regarding the way MPs are elected to the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the deadlines for calling the elections. I say, unfortunately, because there was no political will in one Member State that all provisions of the Constitutional Charter were respected. As far as deadlines are concerned, I did not notice that any party in Serbia and half of the parties in Montenegro have come forward in the previous period with a desire to move the deadlines for calling the elections, because the basic political premise is that it is always better to have directly elected MPs, directly elected MPs, rather than indirectly, or indirectly elected MPs through the so-called delegate system. I repeat, unfortunately, there was no political will in the part of the political elite of a Member State, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We were forced to seek a compromise solution, because what would have happened if there were no such desire and this desire for Belgrade to move towards compromise. I fear that the crisis would deepen further, in order to have a new cooling of relations with Belgrade-Podgorica; to turn the border between Serbia and Montenegro into an international, not an inter-republic border; to have even greater problems with the traffic of goods, people and services and to further distance from each other, which is not in our interest. It's not even in our national interest, because it's two close peoples that connect: a common language, a culture, a common history of itradition. It is not in our strategic interest either, because both Serbia-Montenegro have both business and traffic, both economically and any other kind of relationship that only mutually can help us develop these systems. Of course, compromise requires patience. We are ahead of us in a period of patience, and all the democratic capacity Belgrade has, to show in full light, in order for the state to be preserved, not to be torn apart. Before Serbia-Montenegro was established, I would remind you, we had a double currency system. In Montenegro, first, the German mark was officially valid, then the euro, and in Serbia all along Yugoslav and then the Serbian dinar. We had a strong initiative to form a Montenegrin Orthodox church. We had a strong initiative to recognize the so-called. Montenegrin, with some new letters. We had a part of Montenegro's political parties that had completely boycotted federal institutions. It's better today. Maybe someone will say it's a little better, slightly better, but it's still better. Certain separatist tendencies in Montenegro have been stopped. All Montenegrin political entities participate in the work of institutions. Once again, someone will say that they are partially obstructing and blocking the work of these institutions, but until a few years ago we did not even have them in those institutions, and today we have ministers in both the Federal Parliament and the Council. So one basic precondition has been met, the first step has been taken to move towards further integration of Serbia-Montenegro. What is also important is the participation of Brussels in this agreement. The referendum issue, which is loudly announced by separatists in Podgorica, has been relatively relativised by the amendment of the Constitutional Charter. It is clear that basic standards and basic principles of the European Union must be respected, both when calling a referendum, and when implementing it, as well as when interpreting the outcome of the referendum. Several European officials have said so far, since signing these amendments and supplementing the Constitutional Charter to this day, that the majority is not enough and that 51:49 or 53:47 is voted on to separate one member, or to declare its independence. What happens tomorrow? Maybe tomorrow the circumstances change, maybe two or three percent of the electoral body starts thinking differently, so we don't want to split up and reunite every four years. We also need patience because of all people who, by their pronouns from Montenegro or who exercise their labour rights, the right to pension, the right to education, the right to medical services in one or another republic. The process of separation, the process of separation is difficult, even where he was calm, as in the case of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. To this day, these problems are not solved. I guess it's in everyone's best interest that we don't have a new 100,000 or 200,000 problems in this regard. I guess it's not in our best interest that our citizens or citizens of the Republic of Montenegro are trying to achieve these rights in several years of litigation in court. Why drive people to do so when by preserving the common state we can avoid all such unwanted situations. Finally, I would like to say, although different speeches have been heard, that I am giving full rights to those MP clubs who said they will not vote for these changes, that they are doing so, but that they are still for the preservation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because this is proof that we have, practically, 100% support at this point in the Serbian Parliament, that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is preserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15900	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15901	I don't mean to cause controversy, but I think he's a injured member of 100, because we need to express ourselves precisely here. By listening to your discussion, I could get the impression that the institutions began to function when the Constitutional Charter was adopted. You said we didn't have representatives of Montenegro in our institutions until then. That's not true. (Dusan Prophetovic, from place: Dela. You don't have a part of Montenegrin politicians in institutions now. It's a system of government and opposition. Now those in Montenegro could say: we've had DOS in the common state so far, we've had radicals, now they're radicals in opposition in the federal state, and DOS is there in power. I can never allow anyone, because it was the basis of our conflicts at the time of the SRJ, if one political party is not in the federal government and if you wish, then you say the federal government is not functioning. That's not true. Coalitions were created back then. At that time, the SNP was building a majority coalition in the Council of Citizens and we had 21 votes in the Greater Republic. You supported the DPS, you said the Constitution of the SRJ was overrun. I'm talking DOS, you belonged to DOS. Perhaps your party did not, but DOS then insisted that Montenegro was injured, that the SRJ constitution be trampled because the government of Montenegro does not participate in the SRJ government. It is not the basis for commenting whether or not the Constitution has been violated. So it was a federal state when you weren't in power. When you won, after the Friday revolution, you first had that part of Montenegro that was behind us, and then there were elections where the DPS completely interfered with the government in the federal state and then the conflict began. Then came the Constitutional Charter. So I'll never mind if you find partners in Montenegro to create a majority, but you can't have a majority with the whole of Montenegro. Someone will stay there in opposition. We had a paradox that whoever was in power in Montenegro was in opposition in the federal state. So what, he didn't create most of it. That is why it is clear here: the Constitutional Charter is not written to include representatives of Montenegro in operation. The ones who wanted to be involved were included. The Constitutional Charter was a transition to breaking the state, and unfortunately these amendments convince me. If it wasn't for the transition to breaking up the country, you'd be completely respecting it by now and it would be a functioning state. Why am I not in favour of this bill on the implementation of amendments, which you say elections will be held at the same time on a republican and federal level? If you are waiting for the republican elections, then you do not have to direct federal ones at all, because they will give you the right picture in Serbia and these formed parliamentary groups will send the right number of MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. We need direct elections when there are no direct elections for the Serbian Parliament, and you hold the same elections on the same day. That's ridiculous. These elections are needed when a year has passed of the Republic Assembly's term, two years, three years, when you know that the mood of the electoral body has changed. And to keep the same day, both federal and republican, it completely loses its meaning, because whoever has 70 MPs will have the same percentage in the elections for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15902	The word is made by MP Bajram Omeragic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15903	What I want to say first is that we have an accident that there is a legal-political act called the Constitutional Charter, which is what it is, because in parallel law we really don't have many examples that we can compare it with other legal acts. We have a situation where any kind of analysis can lead us to conclude in the first wave that it's made so that it doesn't work. The fact is, a lot of things don't work. However, all those who want the common state to survive, I think they should support the amendment and the addition of the Constitutional Charter, for the reason it gives a chance that in due course, what didn't work, in some ways, will overcome and give us a chance for that state to function. Those who want this community to fail and that this community ends its life as soon as possible will not support these changes and complement them and will give a chance to those in Montenegro, who are constantly looking for reasons to stop this community from existing. That is why I would ask all MPs to support this amendment and supplement, precisely for reasons not to give support to those in Montenegro, who want this country to disappear as an international legal entity as soon as possible, I think of Serbia-Montenegro as a result of its failure. Therefore, I think further debate is unnecessary. I call on all MPs to support these amendments and additions, so that we do not be the reason to call on us in Montenegro; that they simply do not take a step towards amending and supplementing this law, or the Constitutional Charter, and thus question the existence of Serbia-Montenegro. We will support it until, not only the Constitutional Charter, not only the law, but the smallest regulation, it makes the common state stand, because we think it is the interest of all citizens of Serbia-Montenegro to survive. What I'm saying is, about our region, the fact that both Serbs, Bosniaks and Montenegrins from our region support the survival of this community, and in that sense I want to convey this message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15904	Thank you for your discussion. Please report which member of the Rules of Procedure you advertise. This way we make a mistake if we answer, go out for a pay phone and discuss, instead of talking about the Rules of Procedure or the right to a replica, as anyone wants. Word came through, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have responded to the word by the same member of the Rules of Procedure as Mr Omeragic. I'm counting on you, since you've allowed a member of your parliamentary group to speak by that member, you won't bother me at all. So, with regard to what we are talking about today, Mr Omeragic said one thing, which could be seen by representatives of his political party and accepted that policy. In this country, there is a part of those – some for money, some for speedboats, some for reasons that always wanted this country to be worse or a state that was incomparably worse than it is – which therefore supported Milo Djukanovic's separatist policy or anyone else who would implement such a policy. When someone mentioned Broz today, you could see on one of our televisions how deeply rooted it is, and how it is done to devastate and destroy the idea of a common state in Montenegro. These, who are to God's greatest heirs, the representatives of Broz's ideas, are just talking about "my" to sovereign Montenegro, "separate", as they call it, and they are now forbidden to speak, because the term "separitism" sounds bad for the citizens of Montenegro and for the citizens of Serbia, so they came up with no excuse to the end, so they shorten and say "independants". It's from an English "independence", it's supposed to mean "independence", or for -- I don't know what. Today we face a similar movement that existed before in Montenegro. Sekula Drljević and Savic Markovic, as carriers of the Ustasha movement and Ustasha idea in Montenegro, were later created, or later born these movements, but we had these movements. "Greens" and "whites" were divided by who's so-called "whites." "Federal state", such as "greens", but both were for the community with Serbia. Today we have a big problem that individual parties, not about Mr Bogdanovic; because I spend a lot of time in Montenegro, not because I'm from there, but because of the decision of the presidential college and Tomislav Nikolic to help our party and people in the local elections, so I know; it's not about Bogdanovic, Boris Tadic participated in the DPS campaign. The country's president took part in the DPS campaign now in Budva. He and Sveta Marovic were walking around Milocher, St. Stefan, to be seen by everyone, all the cameras took pictures of them. They didn't talk about anything, because three days left until the Budva elections, to say -- well, you see, and official Serbia, we're not separatists here with us. What Nenad Bogdanović. Nenad Bogdanovic had little to talk about there at their final meeting in Budva, nothing special. The only theme of the meeting was: an independent Montenegro. You say the situation in Montenegro is better today. The situation in Montenegro does not make it worse; they have 500 billboards leased today with an ad internet site www.cgnevolde.com; they are going into a fierce campaign to separate Serbia. We have today, according to the official list, 31.4% of Serbs, not 34%. But that percentage would have gone to 50% if it hadn't been for Predrag Bulatovic, who said: don't plead as Serbs, plead as Comrade Tito told us, as Montenegrins. But those who speak Serbian, who are against independence, except those who will buy, have over 66% of the people. Now someone's going down, the president of this country is going to Montenegro to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15906	Mr. Wolfie, time. Four minutes and 16 seconds, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15907	I hope you will understand that I do not want to hear that remark, because you did not warn Mr. Omeragic, and you did not ask him in which way, by which member of the Rules of Procedure he appeared. At least I explained that I picked up the same member as him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15908	Mr. Omeragic spoke not for three and a half minutes. It's your turn to speak when this is over. Please be kind and finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15909	All right, then count me as if I'm speaking in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15910	I can't count on you. You're putting us in an awkward situation. Please allow me to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15911	You can't allow it, because I told you the truth about Boris Tadic and because part of the people here and part of the media won't pass on what's going on in Montenegro. Because you think...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15912	Please allow me to conduct a session of the Rules of Procedure, which we have all adopted. You will have the right to speak and there is no problem. Let us move on. We don't get anything by making unpleasant scenes like this in front of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15913	Would you give me a few seconds, and I'll be done with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15914	Here, I'll give you a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15915	So, those who think we're not following what's going on in Montenegro, they're wrong. In each of the 21 Montenegrin municipalities, we know what is happening, not what is happening in relations between individual state bodies of Serbia-Montenegro. One of the reasons Mr Nikolic spoke of, which is why there are some people who are dishonest and falsely representing the common state, and all they do is make Montenegro split away from Serbia as soon as possible, to take the same people as we do, because there is only an apple between Pljevlja and Prijepolje, and nothing else that people share, it is the same people, there is no difference. That's why we're on our way, I'm done with it, so you'll give me your word in a row, elections all over Montenegro, and, thank God, we're doing fine. Where we haven't been parliamentary in 15 years, we're becoming all over the place, and from the Serbian parties, unfortunately, the ratings only grow with Serbian radicals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15916	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15917	I consider it necessary to warn the National Assembly that in the afternoon work, the Rules of Procedure by Mr Markovic, in one extremely incorrect and unprofessional, cheerleading way. It violates the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Rule 89 and Article 101 and allows its party comrades to appear, speak and propagate the Democratic Party's policies and them personally through order and without business justification. This is a list of Members who have been reported today to speak about this agenda item. Mr. Omeragic is not here, and he could apply as a member of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club and get the right to speak. They're probably looking at this watch and counting some timing, so it'd be convenient for him to pick up. I'm advertising the rules of the Rules of Procedure, because it's really a disgrace to the National Assembly. He did not mention any member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured, and I believe that Mr Markovic, because this applies to him primarily, in a very incorrect way, to this assembly, which is not the first time. But that's also the president of the National Assembly. I don't think we need this, but it says that some party interests still have an advantage over everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15918	I'm really sorry that Mr. Obradovic has this impression. I warned Mr. Omeragic because I really didn't find the basis for his report. I can't influence it when an MP comes out for a pay phone, what he'll say, and how he'll speak. So you have to understand that I can't decide. As far as the order goes, I don't know if you know, but we haven't moved on to the speaker list in a row yet. Unfortunately, for the last two hours, we've been messing with the replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman is not taking part in this. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15919	I am reporting again to point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and I thank Mr Markovic, because by his reply he has just confirmed what I have said, that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are simply being violated here. Article 98 is very precise. No one can approach this assembly speaker without the approval of the president, or one who is chairing the session. You let Mr. Omeragic come here to speak, you let him go for three and a half minutes, and then you mentioned that he was talking about a subject that wasn't on the agenda. Mr. Markovic, you and I both know very well that the Rules of Procedure has been injured here and that you have done so very well. I'm telling you one more time, it would be better if your fellow MP checked in and spoke to the Rules of Procedure, but it's a shame for your MP group to abuse the Rules of Procedure to give one of your MPs the opportunity to present their political position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15920	I do not understand, Mr. Obradovic, I fully agree with you that Mr. Omeragic did not take the word as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, but when the MP comes forward and says he is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, he is the chairman who is obliged to allow him to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. What's he gonna say at the pay phone then, Mr. Radovic? I can't influence that. I don't know what you want again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15921	What Mr. Markovic said in fact shows that he is not at all competent to lead this session of the National Assembly, because if he were competent he would apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the order of the session. The President of the National Assembly, or one who chaires, if one of the MPs violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, shall apply measures according to that MP. You simply let your colleague present his party program, and then you talk about the Rules of Procedure. So you don't know what the Rules of Procedure mean, and you don't apply these Rules of Procedure. Don't run the session, let someone else do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15922	There will be no problem voting on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, as well as on each other. I repeat, I have warned Mr Omeragic that he has not listed a member of the Rules of Procedure for which he is reporting. But again, it is a practice unfortunately in our parliament for a long time, and I don't see how that problem came about only Mr. Omeragic, because today at least ten times in the same way has been broken by the Rules of Procedure. And if you think I have a problem as chairman, you as the ruling majority, ask the President of the Assembly and vice presidents of the ruling majority to lead this session. You should be grateful to us from the opposition for doing you a good service and holding sessions and in cases where you have no quorum, and in cases where you are rude and you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, and you insult us from opposition parties. Do not ask us to lead the meetings of the congregation if you do not like it. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15923	Here's finally the opportunity for the government and the opposition to agree on something. Mr. Markovic, there was no one in your ears to run that session. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic, the session is led by a vice-president who has the right to be President of the Assembly. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm from the opposition, I'm not running a session of the National Assembly. So don't lead us astray here. You loved running that session of the National Assembly. If you don't like it, and now you can get off that presidential seat, the session is interrupted. You should not be allowed to hold a session for another, much more important reason, and that is because you belong to a structure that does not understand democracy. Not to remind you of what you did while you were in power. I remind you of what you said seven minutes ago. You said, "We've been dangling in the National Assembly for two hours now, with replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure." What's a distraction for you, Mr. Markovic? It's a distraction for me when they schedule a session at 10.00 hours, so they start at 12.00. If the session starts at 10.00 and takes place in the Rules of Procedure, there is no distraction. It may be a distraction for you to talk about Boris Tadic, but a man who went to the most Serbian parts of Budva, Milocher, St. Stefan, Przno, to convince citizens that it is not dangerous if they vote for Milo Djukanovic; then it is not a distraction, then it is an abuse of the role of the President of the Republic, given to him by coalition partners who made up the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No distractions in the National Assembly, it's all on the agenda. If you think Mr. Omeragic came out for this pay phone, he didn't, you gave him your word. He told you he was speaking according to the Rules of Procedure. All you had to do was ask which member of the Rules of Procedure he was speaking of, as it is your obligation as one who runs the session of the National Assembly. Here it is, Biro now says by article 100, after half an hour. Then he could talk to the Rules of Procedure and no one here would object. Mr. Markovic, I recommend you don't run any more National Assembly sessions. This will force the president of the National Assembly to sit here and lead, because he doesn't have another. His grandmother's on her way abroad somewhere. There's no session if you refuse to hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-30-0.u15924	I thank you for your advice, but I think it's a duty, both for my and every MP, to respect this institution and do our job the best we can. I won't refuse another time when the president of the National Assembly asked me to replace him, replace him, and I have no intention, for mere opposition work, to obstruct the work of the Assembly and to have taxpayers pay for it. Since it's 6:00 p.m., we interrupt the session and resume tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
