ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they are the most amazing actions of the President of the Assembly. He took advantage of the opportunity while there are still no MPs of the SRS; Mr. Chairman, please be quiet, so as not to take advantage of an expression that is not quite like this light house. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can't lead this country to ruin by passing laws, you can absolutely say, to fraud. The moment we entered the O.R., when we started preparing, the president had already passed nine amendments. If you think you're making laws like this, that with the laws passed the next day, the day after tomorrow, because the day after tomorrow there will be elections - in the fall, you rule this country. It's an obvious example of how you prepare to destroy the country. I answered the amendment, I couldn't list the amendments of the MPs, how quickly, President, you crossed them. Please, Mr. President, can you tell me what the amendment is?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17356	Please, the Assembly has been working since 09.00 hours, the session started at 10.00, and now we are on the fifth amendment, so Article 5, which was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The amendment to Article 5 reads, "This article is deleted." Here you go, Mr. Markovic. I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17357	Thank you, I wanted to, I assumed that with a minute of silence you honored all the victims, in the meantime when we were prepared to enter, you went with the amendments and reached the fifth amendment when we didn't move yet. I reported on the amendment that he submitted, on behalf of the SRS, MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The amendment to Article 5 reads "is deleted", for a simple reason, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, which is a pointless guarantee of the state for loans that private enterprises will benefit from, and whose majority, by passing a meaningless law, will literally be in charge of the state of Serbia. All amendments to this law are identical, to all the other pointless bill proposals you've submitted these days. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will surely try to stop you from destroying the state of Serbia to the end. Little is it for you that Minister Dinkic has taken all the strings into his own hands, all the financial strings, you want to make it possible for him to literally, when you leave, and soon you will leave, the state of Serbia will be brought to the begging stick. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17358	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 20th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND FOR THE FUND OF THE ELEKTROVREDE OF SERBIA (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the bill: Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandar Vukic. Report of the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee was received. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Alexander Vukic submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here we finally come to the segments for which your party members, even until yesterday, are members of the party, now I assume you've thrown it out, found that the state of Serbia has been trying to cover up that big robbery and that big thief that concerns $12 million or euros, I'm not sure, but 12 million, it seems to me to be dollars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS have also submitted amendments to this law requiring the erasure of the bill. I think it's about time this house was treated properly. It is high time for this house to come to mind, that it is high time for this house to propose a law of impules, the laws that allow the total robbery of the Republic of Serbia not to put on the agenda, but to return it to the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17360	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17361	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Parliament, as Serbian Radicals said earlier, Momir Markovic, who came to work, obviously came to work as well, so that he would no longer be here today, and we Serbian radicals really came in time and in time we participate in the work and it is not nice of the president to call the MPs of the opposition who are mostly sitting in this hall. It would be better to warn those who voted for the Rules of Procedure as we do today, by which MPs do not have to be in the O.R. I really don't see what the anxiety is, when we started this debate, why nervous about the comments of fellow Members of Momir Markovic. I also told you on Friday, Thursday, but when we talked about some amendments, that you really now have the opportunity to listen to everything you can't listen to, please come out, you don't have to listen, because it allows you to do so by the Rules of Procedure. We Serbian radicals will talk, and we will talk, and we will talk, and we will tell you everything, and we will tell all of Serbia's public, whether you like it or not, but that's how it is. Article 2 The proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro according to the government of the Republic of Poland's loan to finance a project to restore Serbia-Montenegro's Elektroprivreda Serbia's electro-Montenegro is said to be granted counter-guarantees under the Law on the Liaison of the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a 50m-dollar loan for projects to restore Serbia's Elektroprivredance, to which the Federal Government of the SRJ and the Government of the Republic of Poland is in charge of 50m from the Government of the Republic of Poland for the financing of projects to refurbish Elektroprivreda in the Republic of Serbia and the Law confirming an agreement between the Federal Government of the Republic of Poland on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Poland on credit. The SRS MPs in the then federal parliament were absolutely against taking this loan, as we normally are every time the government proposes a loan, and that was then in the Federal Assembly. When the federal government proposed, Serbian radicals were always extremely cautious. Of course, we know that Serbia and must and should be in some segments and taking loans, but we are counting, trying to find out what is hidden from the loans taken by the Republic of Serbia, and this is a loan that was taken back in 2002, which was taken on the basis of the decision of the Federal Assembly, and now it takes Serbia three years later to give a counter-guarantee to repay these $50 million dollars. This is one of the counterguarantees, two of you ran like this in our absence for two and a half minutes, but there are about 10 or 11 counter-guarantees, which are also in charge of Serbia, but most of these counter-guarantees, or these loans, were unnecessary according to the position of the SRS. Wherever we thought it was, we'd put up with the amendments. Of course, for some counterguarantees and some loans, we have not submitted amendments, because we are aware that in these areas and for these needs we should have taken those loans. Our amendments to this law are all the same and we say that members are individually deleted. I again have to explain to the public that it is no obstruction, but it is the principled position of the SRS, our parliamentary group, according to the non-domestic business of the Serbian government and of the previous SRJ government, which knows that it is government and that it manages the state only by taking on new loans. Out of this $50m loan, only Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic will have profits. You all know that, and you all know very well about the famous affair in Elektroprivreda, you know that polling committee whose president was Alexander Vukic. It's been a year or so, I think, or it's been around since the Bureau's report was made, with Alexander Vukic's opinion set out. The report had to be held at a session of this parliament and that is when we discuss everything the survey board has set out. Of course, to this day we weren't able to talk about it here, and if we were, then you'd see exactly where this $50 million went, which you took from the Government of the Republic of Poland. Also, since it was obvious that this parliament, or Parliament's president, has no intention of putting it on the agenda, the SRS has filed criminal charges against Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, with this number of evidence of crime in the area, in the field of electricity. Why do we still think there was no need to take this loan? Of course, perhaps one of you can say that since it is stated here that the loan is being taken to finance a project to restore electricity in the Republic of Serbia, we are not Serbian radicals for the restoration of electricity facilities. Of course we are, but with the electricity price in Serbia today, thank you for asking, it can be done without additional credit. And now another power-gathering has been announced, and it is one in a series of fuel-electricity purchases, and usually now it will go all the way to monitor these gatherings, and then Radovan Jelasic is surprised that his IMF overestimated future inflation, or inflation for this year in Serbia, and claims it is not how his IMF friends announced it. Unfortunately, there will be a higher rate of inflation than the one announced by the IMF. After all, all Serbian citizens know what the price of electricity was at the end of 2000, they know what it is today, here almost five years later, they know they have a power collection waiting for them again. In April, when it comes to power collection, then the finance minister told the Serbian public, there is no collection, but until June. Here, we are in July of the month, and now the citizens of Serbia are expecting another pick-up, and the pensioners are getting less pensions, they are being announced that they will not receive pensions soon, each day more unemployed. Farmers still have problems buying their products. Unfortunately, and what has happened these days, this weather accident has also helped farmers have even more problems, but all this is not of interest to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Government of the Republic has its other visions, visiting some of them important events, but we Serbian have worked here to tell, among other things, the citizens of Serbia what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is up to, to which you MPs who are going to vote are listed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By whom I call you, do not let the Serbian Parliament be in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it should be the other way around. The government has to explain, the government has to explain, and it's gone, what happened to these $50 million that have already been taken, spent. We will give counter-guarantees, and we do not know who spent those funds, nor how much they spent, nor how much they took Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. All that if a government official could explain it to us in detail here, we might think it makes sense to pass a law like this. While we do not have this, Serbian radicals will certainly not by their vote contribute to making Serbian citizens live worse, and of course they will live worse, if the government is in charge of restoring the EPS by $50m, while at the same time increasing their electricity price. That really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17362	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are we against these proposed counterguarantees? Of course, there are many reasons, especially when it comes to EPS, and we know in the last ten years what things have been going on in the EPS, of course, under the leadership of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. I'm going to say a few reasons important, since I'm from that territory, the Lazarec municipality. It is said here, the counterguarantees required for KFV for Germany, which you signed in 2003, these funds were given to Poland to import the BTOR system that is needed to delay the gap, or that country to the coal layer itself. Gentlemen, this is where 16m euros are mentioned for that BTOR system, and for that money three BTOR systems can be purchased with all the transport and installation of these systems. So there's absolutely another one of your robberies going on in energy. Also, I mean, there's a large number of these funds, especially when it's about a metal structure that's simple to make and most of it, more than half of what we've imported from Poland, of course, that "Colabara Metal" from Lazareva can do anything to build far cheaper and far more favourable, and it costs us far less, which means that this is another of your many robberies when it comes to EPS. Also, the transport from Poland of the same structure, which has its shape, of course costs too much for our own economy anyway. So I'm saying that when you look at each other, it comes out five times as much as we've done it with our own means and in our own way, with our metal industry. When it comes to loans from the Government of Poland for the recovery of the EPS, it says here that these funds are intended for renovations. Gentlemen, ten or more years ago, we did the repairs ourselves without any loans, with no credit, relying on our own strengths and our own machinery. For years now, it's been practiced here in the electro-priority to make repairs, that's where various performers are brought in, all in the light of the money being washed, that big funds end up in their own pockets. We had 10, 15 years ago, not just one salary in the EPS, but they had two or three surpluses in a year, and sometimes five, six. So, at that time, we relied on our own forces, our own experts, our own resources. However, for the past ten years, you from Czechoslovakia, Germany have brought in experts to perform some of the works that our people performed during the repairs, especially when it comes to Colubar A and this Tent A and Tent B. The funds are said to be intended for repairs in Obrenovac, Kostolc, Moravi and so on. Let's remember the remont that you did on boiler 3 in Obrenovac, where the remont cost three times the real price it was. The Kolubari offer offered by the Germans is not listed here, no counter-guarantee is required, no loan is required, no credit is required. And it is an exceptional offer, as the German firm offers 150m euros to lend to the construction of dedicated capacities in Colubara A, and to return the loan through electricity, which is extremely favourable. However, Mr Hamovic and Lazarevic are not responsible for investing, is not responsible for building new projects in our economy, for reasons that they could import as much electricity as possible. I'll give you an example of how EPS imports electricity in mid-flight. They staged the issue of environmentalism several times in Vreoc, even during Kori Udovici they also created one choir scenario, the rebellion of people, so that people blocked the railway that prevents further transport of coal to the production of electricity in Obrenovac, thus reducing electricity production. That's how they got people to do it, and they so skillfully imported a certain amount of electricity, and in the middle of the summer, they imported electricity and moved fat on from that job. These topics you've imposed on us lately, denationalization, Srebrenica, partisans and Chetniks, and you've only imposed them to throw dust in the eyes of the people, that the people are drawing attention from these problems where 7,000 workers are being prepared, or so much should be fired, and so far hundreds of thousands have been fired from your privatisation. Therefore, it is only one way for you to distract the public from dealing with these key social problems, but to impose a third topic that has nothing to do with our present.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17364	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few more words about this amendment to Article 3, because I'm going to talk about my amendment later. Simply, we cannot allow, we Serbian radicals, that such a scandalous counter-guarantee is ratified in the highest legislative body, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I will ask colleagues who make up power and from the ruling set, to pay attention to the text of the justification for this counter-guarantee. You'll see that at the very least there are mixed grandmothers and frogs and that you'll approve something that you won't know where or how to use the funds. Article 3 for which we propose to delete, pay a little more attention, says the user of the loan from Article 1 of this law in the Republic of Serbia is the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred by Serbia". See what it looks like in the reasons for the adoption of the law fourth paragraph, and what it says – according to the agreement, a $50m loan from the Government of the Republic of Poland gives to finance projects in the fields of energy and mining, environmental and agriculture. The credit will be used to finance 95% of the value of the completed contracts between undertakings from the Republic of Poland and companies from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to deliver the Republic of Poland to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia machinery, equipment and materials produced in Poland, as well as services, including technologies. "Also, this agreement implies that height cannot exceed 52 million dollars, etc. The share of investment in machinery, devices, materials, technologies and services of Polish origin under this Agreement cannot be less than 80%. When the government of Zoran Djindjic, and later Zoran Zivkovic, decided to take such a step, of course, with the keen support of then-the Vice-President of the Federal Government of Miroljub Labus, to go in this way of borrowing, we warned them and warned you not to do this for the simple reason that most of these funds were spent, and you will now nominate something you do not know about how the money was spent. If mining, agriculture, the restoration of technological processes in certain enterprises are involved here, then you must as MPs and all of us together know where the money is spent, every cent. There's no specification here. We asked for our President Vojislav Seselj's insistence on the first counter-guarantee for some loan from a German bank in 2002 to be later on – of course it was then promised by the chairman of the Assembly, but we never came to that specification – exactly how much funds and equipment were used for electricity since then 50 or maybe 90 million dollars. Don't play with these things. If the proposer here in the first part said, in Article 3, that the user of this loan, we don't know under any conditions, no interest, nothing exactly bought from machinery and equipment, the Republic of Serbia, would use the reconstruction and reconstruction of power plants, as it is possible for other users of this loan to appear here. It's at least suspicious, not to say it's a great opportunity for a robbery and who knows where this $50 million has been drawn, because we don't have any insight into where the money's been spent. Are we getting that in the final budget account? We don't win. We approved that one company, founded by the Republic of Serbia, to which the paws were thrown by these two criminals Hamovic and Lazarevic, in the process of initial restructuring and future privatisation benefits allegedly 50 million. You know, many of you are involved in the exercise of government at the level of local self-government and you know exactly that the local self-government unit for donation, for credit, for any loan from any business bank in the country and abroad must have a cost specification. We do not want to participate in this, and we will be determined against it. We're just executors to approve of spending this much money, and we don't really know what. It says so, but it's wrapped in oblande. In Article 3, for which a colleague asks for an amendment to be deleted, he says he will use Elektroprivreda. Some others appear here, so potential users are some agricultural enterprises or institutions dealing with environmental protection. Then what is this? Where's the $50 million going? Later on, according to the amendment that I have submitted to talk about the fact that Serbian citizens are being robbed in an unscrupulous way, because every month a certain amount, spent or not, is being taken from the bill and then the question of where this kind of money goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17366	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Group, the amendment to Article 4 was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, and this amendment required that Article 4 be deleted. There are many reasons why such intervention is absolutely necessary. It has already been said, you have heard that it is a loan taken three years ago, so in October 2002, and it is really unclear why now the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially by an emergency procedure, requires the National Assembly to consider the law on the granting of counterguarantees. It is a completely pointless argument given by the government for reasons of passing the law by emergency procedure. I'm not going to read that argument. I think it is truly degutant and humiliating for all MPs in the National Assembly, and also for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that someone in the government is dared to pass laws with such reasoning to the National Assembly. Article 4 provides for loans to be withdrawn at the request of credit-users, i.e. "Electroprivred Serbia", passed through the "Vojvodjanska Banka" a.d. Novi Sad, as banks of agents, through direct payments made by the Polish bank to Polish firms. This member best shows the very essence of this loan. What's a fact is that this loan is something where living money will never be at all. They did not give us the $50 million that, when we finally have these resources, we see what is best for the EPS, in which way these funds will be best used, where companies and countries will take over technology, machinery and services and everything else provided for in this agreement, but in this way the Government of the Republic of Poland will grant a loan of 52,632,000 dollars, when the value of the cash-paying loan is increased, so that the Polish bank will have no contact with that money. The question should be asked whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has thus taken the obligation to pay interest to use these funds, i.e. since these funds have not been used since they could not be used, because the agreement provided that the funds would be available to the Republic of Serbia only from the moment of granting counter-guarantee of the National Assembly of Serbia, should first answer us by proposing this law what was happening with these funds over the previous three years and whether the Republic of Serbia would be obliged to pay the interest in those three years, during which period it is evident that we could not use these funds. It is said here that the loan will be used to finance 95% of the value of the concluded contracts between the Republic of Poland and the SRJ enterprises for the delivery of the Republic of Poland to SRJ machines, equipment, materials produced in Poland, as well as services, including technologies. Any good host before signing such an agreement and before signing, i.e. giving counterguarantee to repay such a loan, would first consider and inquire about what Poland will offer us as machines, equipment and materials, as well as consulting, technology and services. Because we're used to contracts signed by the DOS majority in the smaller part doing something concrete, and most of these loans refer to the so-called. Consalting, or translated into a Serbian thief, that it is usually done through companies that are close gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through companies where they have worked until entering the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because as far as we know in the field of electricity, Poland, you will admit, and not some world power. I don't know what they're celebrating for, and what shifts in the field of electricity they've made. The big question is whether paying more than $50 million will meet the standards and whether it will be paid at those prices at which we could possibly get that equipment from other producers. Through all of this, you have continued to weaken and destroy the electricity industry, which you have already destroyed enough over your coalition partners Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. We all know that the current in the previous period, so from 2000 to today, has accumulated, and no longer knows how many times. It's a regular explanation that electricity requires 20%, and then the government is good so that only 14%, and then we should be happy about it, and the citizens should be too happy that they don't always get as much increase as they demand from the electricity industry, because my God, it's below the European kilowatt price, what citizens pay us. It does not occur to anyone that the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia also brings them to the European level and would certainly make citizens very happy to pay the European electricity price, and the European price of gasoline and European prices for all the other products you burden them with. What is also very interesting is what is written in chapter four, under the heading “Assessing the amount of financial resources needed to implement the law, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia says in an explanation: To implement this law, funds will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And if Predrag Markovic were the president of this assembly, and he should be the president of all of us, and of course not long ago, had any dignity and had had any concern about the dignity of this National Assembly, this would be sufficient reason not to put the bill in the process until the government of the Republic of Serbia gives a proper explanation. It is indeed a shame to say that funds for law enforcement will be provided from Serbia's budget, not because these security funds will not be, of course, and will pay very well for it by Serbian citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been obliged to write here the amount of funds they estimate will be required to implement the law. It doesn't matter if the government writes that it takes $50 million or whether it takes five dollars. That amount doesn't have to be true and no one expects that amount to fit into a dollar, it was essential that any amount be written here. Especially when it comes to the fact that the Government continues to explain: the bill obliges the credit user to provide funds for the repayment of loans and from its own revenues, otherwise the Republic of Serbia would have a direct obligation to pay off loans, which would result in an additional burden on the budget. I ask the question, does the government of the Republic of Serbia lie to us here in chapter four or chapter five? Obviously, these two positions, i.e. these two chapters, are contradictory and cannot be said in one position, will provide funds for the repayment of this loan from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in the next, no, this law is precisely the obligation of payment, i.e. the payment of this loan, to the borrower, or to the EPS. Let's see for ourselves who will pay this loan. I'm sure, and that's the only thing that's safe and that everyone will agree on, in the end line, will pay off this loan to Serbian citizens. Whether it will work in a slightly more direct way, by providing funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, or by doing it in a slightly more indirect way, by charging them with electricity, and then by paying this loan from that cash collection, and at the end of the line, it's not that important. I ask you to think again carefully and still adopt these amendments to the SRS and give up the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17368	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here you go. You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17369	The efficiency of your work at the very beginning of the session has been demonstrated by the rapid reading of the amendments. But what I'm saying is, this $50 million, as much as the loan for the repairs has been taken, is that it says here that certain funds are intended for agriculture and ecology. Gentlemen, surface spears in Kostolc and Kolubari are in real chaos, and they've been laundering money for years, they're being taken in private pockets, and that the land recreation is not done at all. You can see for yourself, who was in these municipalities and in those territories could see the chaos of this land. It mentions certain resources that need to be allocated to ecology, so it should be pointed out and stated that these extremely small resources are invested in ecology, that the special municipality of Lazarec is very threatened with regard to ecology, that is, the statistics on diseases themselves speak, and that is not to be reported in public. One of the best ways to invest in ecology is to toplify those places where there's a great coefficient of pollution. So this way that a huge number of households are going to heat up, so that it's central heating supply, not individually. More than 15 to 20,000 households now we can imagine how polluters they are. However, nothing is done on this plan, although I say, there are great conditions, both in power plants and in heat and heat construction, which means a great benefit to the state and, of course, for individuals, that would leave us with a large amount of coal for sale, for the market. However, when coal is mentioned, it should also be pointed out that a huge number, even whole compositions, disappear and I don't know the direction, so the detours turn to not know exactly where all the compositions go and sell themselves, so to speak, the abnormal coal is being stolen. Also, as we're talking about stealing electricity, it's a whole different story now. When it comes to coal, gentlemen, the coal mafia has dominated the Lazarec municipality for years, and no one is talking about it, it's just being noted. You don't do any research or interrogations. There are always large amounts of coal and coal mining, but at the end of the day where the money comes from that coal. From coal sales and from electricity sales, we can invest all our resources in our electricity industry and be carriers of electricity in the Balkans. Right in that segment of electricity, when it comes to coal, extremely large resources go in an unknown direction. Also, when it comes to ecology, you need to turn a little bit to hydroelectric power plants. You have not invested anything in hydropower plants in the last ten years at all, especially when it comes to Gerdap, and we know that in 1995 we had a loan from Greece. You don't know where that money went, and nothing's been invested in the HE Gerdap. Also, we have great potentials on Drina. Nobody talks about it, because it doesn't match the gas lobby, it doesn't match Hamovic or Lazarevic. So that's a lot of questions being asked in front of you, and nobody's been talking about it lately. Collecting electricity -- you should think about it too. Where'd the power collection come from? Why aren't you based on coal power generation? As we know, thermal power plants don't use that coal that the household uses, but that waste, that dust. Lately, you've been talking about gas power plants. That's the reason to force the gas lobby. At least 10 times more expensive kilowatt is produced in thermal power plants on gas than in coal thermal power plants. These are the questions we need to think about. (President: Time.) ) Also, on another hoax to point out, which you do by electro-distribution. People who come, debtors who owe 3,000 and over, give one piece of paper and say, sign this, this is if you promise to pay your debt in two or three days. People sign, and they deliver that same document to the court. So they cheat on people in this way to sign something that has nothing to do with logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17370	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17371	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as responsible MP, I would like to inform you that my position regarding all amendments submitted will depend on a few questions. That's what I'd like to inform you on time, given that, as I've been informed, Friday will be voting day. I am the MP of the SPS and I owe it to the Socialists of Cack and Moravia County and no one else, the name and reputation of the SPS and possibly something of my reputation. SO Cachak, during this week and in the coming weeks, has an initiative to change 20 and several street names to Chačka. Among others, these are the streets of five folk heroes, and three of them were slaughtered, the streets of Svetozar Markovic and Filip Filipovic. Filip Filipovic Street will give Milan Stojadinovic. Milan Stojadinovic was the president of Serbia's government, the first to wear a black uniform in Serbia, to charge Vermaht and buy weapons, each case said "checked correctly", no rifle fired, ended Uruguay's life, as you know. I am not voting for anything until I get a written guarantee from Minister Loncar, who has to verify it, whether this disgrace will happen in Serbia. I didn't give my word, when I joined this government's support, that I would tolerate fascists getting street names, squares, etc. in Serbia. Since you, Mr. Prophetic, are here the oldest DSS official at the moment and since Minister Loncar is your minister, please, as a responsible man, I am a serious MP, so if that doesn't happen, you can't count on that vote now or in the future. In Chakko, the government is running NS, SPO, DSS. Deal with it. We have 13 councilmen there, it's the largest committee group and I'm not going to let it work that way, for a number of reasons. That's my attitude, that's my personal conviction. It depends whether I can or can't support what you're proposing here. I'm giving you enough time to get over yourself, so you don't throw us in the mud, so you don't humiliate us while we support you. If you can't do that, then tell me what it's about. There's no problem, I'm very happy to do what I'm about to do, because it's not normal for something like that to happen in the year when the whole normal world celebrates 60 years of victory over fascism. Milan Stojadinovic was the first fascist in Serbia and the most important fascists in Serbia. So please, it's all about your choice. I said my attitude about it. There are other strange things happening on some committees. So it was my duty to tell you, and on your conscience and on your political assessment, that this thing will work in the future. So it has to do with the amendment, because the way these things are considered depends on how I behave in the future. You have the right to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17372	I would just ask that you do not abuse both the Rules of Procedure and my tolerance, because you are reporting on the amendment, and you are talking about topics that really have nothing to do with this. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and Mr Prophetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17373	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must react, not as a member of the SRS, but as someone who tried to do this job, and above all in what Serbia was and who were politicians of that era before World War II, and who belonged to what today in the most important part, when it comes to state and national interest, cherished the SRS, to react, for the simple reason that the citizens of Serbia, those who had basic knowledge about it, and those who didn't know anything about it, could on more than one occasion, and in the issue of "Great Serbia", i.e. the SRS, to read who Milan Stojadinovic was and what his role was as prime minister, ahead of World War II. In one of the largest Serbian Bucharests, which should be a role model for every child who wants to learn about the history of his people and his country, it is a work of incredible content and capital importance, published by the president of the SRS on the eve of going to the Hague showcase, which is the book "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", on page 1007, in the chapter on the role of Milan Stojadinović and what he did for the Serbian people in general, and from the position of his profession and as a politician, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, in this chapter, used not only by one of the greatest Serbian scientists Laza M. Kostic, but also by covering everything other learned people wrote, and particularly historians, in this chapter almost everything he used by Milan Stojadinović summed up and gave to the public, just as well as the SRS, who published several years ago. So, I'm saying this not as a representative of a party that cultivates both Pasic and Stojadinovic's traditions in what is the protection of the state and the people, but as a representative of a people who cannot understand that in this way, from one angle or from a position that I personally cannot understand, react and thus address from the assembly pay phone, and it has nothing to do with the amendment. It's pure abuse and counterfeiting, in historical, scientific terms in any other sense, which I can't allow, or any of the colleagues who here, I believe, on this side, who also know a lot more about and have one more accessible, and above all a scientifically well-founded view of who the people of our recent history were, in which the period before World War II counts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17374	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17375	I think the proposals on changes to the name of the street are submitted by the municipality and its bodies, so this is a question for the Cačak Assembly and less for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of street changes, I'd leave a part of that stuff to historians. Because if we were to discuss Milan Stojadinovic in this assembly, believe 250 MPs would have 250 opinions. Unfortunately, there was a lot going on in our history, so even in elementary school, I had to learn that Slobodan Jovanovic was a traitor and a representative of foreign forces, not a few people called him a fascist, and the man emigrated to London, which had nothing to do with fascism. Therefore, I would prefer to discuss this issue, however, at the upcoming meeting of the Cačak Assembly, and the historical role of individual politicians in front of World War II and during World War II, however, would leave little more space for historians, especially in some Western states and also in the centre of the former Soviet Union, finally opening the documents on which the 50-year ban on reading was on account of declaring official and state secrets, and we will probably find much clearer in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17376	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17377	Ladies and gentlemen, it should be pointed out, when we were talking about counter-guarantee for re-mounts, that in the restructuring process, some funds are being allocated, and the restructuring process itself has already begun, you have singled out a part of the company from the electricity sector. Then you should also, "Colabar Metal" to isolate, there for three thousand workers, gentlemen, you should also know that all parts, which are connected to surface spears and energy, are made, repaired, baggers etc. By doing so, we can in some ways say that some companies from abroad are favoured. So I think it's very unnatural, given that for years, the company has been repairing and making parts for surface spears, as well as for thermal power plants. I'm saying that you've also restructured the transmission system by having already sold the electrical system, which means that one part of the funds should have been allocated for further investment in electricity. However, you do not show these funds anywhere. The transmission system, now operating 70km to Republika Srpska, is a question of where these funds will benefit from the collection of transmission system services, where the money will end, whether electricity will benefit from it. There's also a misunderstanding and you don't explain anything about it. Kolubara B, it's even said, unfortunately, in 2011, that the "Colubar B" thermal power plant would be built. It's that story from before. Let us remember that Mr Velimir Ilic said he would start continuing to work on Colubari B, where there are about 270m euros to invest, with us being very short-term exporters of electricity. But it's just a demagogue story that has nothing to do with the truth. After that, Mr. Naumov said it was only in 2011, which means that neither this current coalition nor this current government will be at that time. Thus, such hot potatoes are thrown into the hands of a future one. to us - the SRS, who will come to power. The expropriation that needs to be done by the electricity industry means the land that needs to be bought out in Kolubara, nothing is done, and it's well known that large amounts of coal lie in the Vreocs, where you've done several times insurrection, stasis, obstruction of work, and thus you've caused a reduced amount of electricity, and you've imported it when you think about it. However, I am at a gathering in the Vreocs, there were more than a thousand people present, warned and said - gentlemen, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Also, what I'm saying is that yesterday's promotion of the Democratic Party by handing over medals to volleyball players is also one of the abuses of political ones, to say that sport is being abused. You should think, of course, about amateur sports and one way to separate funds, how to separate children from drugs, how and how to speed up amateur sports, and not only, when major sporting events, the gentlemen of the Democratic Party are awarding medals and thus just promoting their party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17378	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a lot of contradiction in this counter-guarantee, starting with the total volume of funds and what I was talking about regarding my fellow Members' amendment - who will be the users, in addition to electro-privedness, as indicated in Article 3, because it does not match the reasoning of the promoters, and the credit user's obligations are defined in this Article 6 and there are now interesting things for you and for the general public. The funds for the repayment of the loan, as it stands here, in the counter-guarantee, will, therefore, be provided by the electricity user, if it's just the electricity industry, by transferring funds to a special account at Vojvodina Banka a.d. Novi Sad. Why at the Vojvodjanska Banka? Now I hear, colleagues say state. You know, four of the biggest state banks were wiped out by the finance minister one day. Now you're telling me, the state bank, and there's a few more that are with the so-called. The state or social capital and you don't know, as I don't know, and those of you who throw it away, how it came to the idea that the counterguaranteer of this counterguarantee would be there and whether it was through some public offering, or what it is, under the grain, as they used to do. Then don't be sure of something you're not sure about, I understand that you were on the board of directors of that bank or if you were one of the directors, I wouldn't dare throw 50 million dollars at me like that and say, that's why. On the other hand, I have to tell you that it's amazing that this attitude of Article 6, in this way, is being formulated, because it means nothing, in principle, and the proposer himself tells us that. He says, "If, on the basis of the counterguarantee issued, the Republic of Serbia fulfils the obligation instead of the users of the credit, it has the right to recover the principal, interest and accompanying costs resulting from the non-execution or untimely execution of the obligation, up to the level of the outstanding obligation, as well as the right to charge from the borrower the billable legal interest." There's a lot of speculation about what billing interest is. For the thousandth time, I warn you, from this pay phone, that once we have to clear it up in the Assembly for the sake of the citizens, and above all because of them, who pay large fines to the state when it comes to an unmistakable obligation on various grounds, and for municipal services. We have a casserole case, where it's incredibly astronomical, with all the interest, water bills, which are now reprogrammed by some arrangement with the city council. We have a lot of cases when it comes to untimely paying taxes. If you admit that there are outside the legal frameworks and outside the Law on Liabilities, the federal former and the laws that were passed in 2001, where the amendment of the SRS has been made clear that legal interest, accounting, must be consistent with the growth of costs and earnings. If you in your midst have a case that counts in a much larger way, then it's a classic abuse. No one from authority to this day has come to terms with it. It can no longer be that interest of 0.02% a day. Do you agree with that? So it can't be. It has to be much smaller or it has to be in line with that econtamination rate of the National Bank of Serbia, it is about 26-27% on an annual level or this combined model with profit growth and low cost growth. Then the question arises, something was said by counterpart Sarovic, first of all, why with the Poles this agreement, what kind and quality, as regards technology, machinery and equipment, we don't have the specification, so we don't even know what is actually contained in the 50 million. And why would the National Assembly accept all of this, when again this amount of electricity will come from the electricity user, which will generate electricity, so as the beneficiary of this loan, or this loan, will return it succesively to a contract that we don't know what it looks like, because here are only general norms given. Which is why, every year, when Serbia's Elektroprivreda from citizens based on 2.16 kilowatts of power, which is now about two US dollars, it takes from citizens to two million and 200,000 dollars. On all electricity bills, it says nicely that it is a so-called engaged force, that the Elektroprivreda uses it for remonting its facilities. If that's what the payer and the one who has two and three counts, on the second and third, he's not free from these so-called hired forces, that's those 2.16 kilowatts of electricity, or equivalent to two dollars, if that's what the citizens keep paying every month when the electric energy bill comes to them, then why this money. Where money is then spent and how it is then deployed and spent by these two, Hamovic and Lazarevic, who have a monopoly on electricity and electricity. Then why is the government additionally in debt, when in each account, at each account, you have that amount that was the initial 50 and some dinars, two three years ago, when it started to be printed and when that hired power was introduced and now that the current is 500 percent more expensive than 2000 or 15% more expensive than it was a month ago, now by your decision, and who knows how many times more times it will be collected by the end of the year. This can't be justified by citizens, nor can they justify such a procedure by any MP, and therefore the SRS is explicitly against this type of debt and the spending of credit with dubious arrangements and the structure of the credit arrangement, which is not clear to us until the end. Is there going to be a participation of ecology, agriculture or is it just going to be used by the Elektroprivreda, for which parts of the Elektroprivreda will be carried out? So let me tell you, you don't even know about this money being taken from your account, or from the citizens of Serbia, for these 2.16 kilowatt forces, or those hundreds of dinars or something, as far as it is now, by the last electricity bills, as the price goes up, you don't know where that amount is used, because in all of Serbia it exists in every electric energy account, for which the remont of the plants is. Everyone in each part of Serbia where they live will demand that it be intensified in its area. It's just not the manners of Serbian radicals, but yours is. Either one of you, whether you're in the coalition or you're in a fight occasionally, elected to be the head of the municipality or head of the county in his district, he's looking for himself. We want all citizens of Serbia to have equal conditions and to be standards by which they will also use their strength in obtaining, or receiving, electricity, because they all pay the same price. And you know that in many parts of Serbia it is not so. In particular, in rural areas, people fear in central and southern Serbia for the devices and for the little pain they keep, especially in these days when these electric shocks and energy shortages are expressed due to the storms, when they re-engage on the net, that they suffer both home appliances and machines and everything they have, because the voltage is not the same everywhere. And also that citizen who lives somewhere on a mountain in Serbia, there in Kopalnik or I don't know where, on Zlatibor, in Zlatar, he has to pay for the same hired power as the one living in the center of a city that has a much better reception of electricity. Then if you'd gone out or if the promoter had said -- you know, we've improved the power supply in that and that area, there's a refurbishment of the facility here and there, the citizens are satisfied, you'll see later when we start with these traffic counter-guarantees and roads that aren't clean, either. Because this amount and this argument don't match the state of things on the ground. Nothing has changed in this regard for 15 or 20 years in some parts of Serbia, which have been completely neglected and when it comes to both roads and electricity. These two steal, 200, 300, 500 million are taken from Serbian citizens on these illegal electricity deals, and we are to charge the state and the people who are going to pay it through the payment of the electricity bill, because it is the electricity industry that is the beneficiary of the loan for the amount that is at least suspicious. We're going to vote against all these guarantees, because none of us, and we're responsible people, high moral people, and we can't stand behind one spent dinar without knowing where it's being spent, who spent it that way, and especially because we know how it's being spent. And the Committee of Auditors, whose president was Mr. Vukic, for a month at the establishment of the robbery, when it comes to electricity, by Hamovic and Lazarevic, and to the day of today's report did not come before the National Assembly, unquestionably found that these loans and all others had been misused earlier and that the two had robbed Serbian citizens. And you've given them one of the most important sectors in the state, Elektroprivred, to manage it and to pay for it, and every month to increase the cost, and that's more unsustainable, and when it comes to electricity, and we're going to keep going on during the day and on tolls, so when these tax laws come, about the tax, one simply unsustainable situation for the pocket of any resident of Serbia, without being a criminal and a thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17380	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, MP Momir Markovic, the Government and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally managed to bring the debate in this House into normal frameworks, because the two draft laws have passed through the system - the amendment has been submitted and that, if anyone, no one appears, thank you very much, we are moving on to the next amendment, while the MPs have sat down, prepared, removed from the bags of the bill, we have taken out the amendments, the chairman, or the president of the Assembly has already run over two laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to talk about it, the citizens of Serbia know very well that the mafia is in the electricity industry, that the mafia is in privatization, that the mafia is in health, that the mafia has let its roots everywhere. With these laws, you try to cover a lot of crimes, introduce them into so-called legal frameworks. I'll talk about some of the illogicalities that are related to this bill. In the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, the second head, the second position, says - namely, the Federal Government of the SRJ is in charge of $50m from the Government of the Republic of Poland on its behalf, and for Serbia's account, to finance projects for the renewal of the electricity sector, etc., on the basis of a contract, or agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of credit ("Official Journal of the SRJ – International Contracts" No. 11/2002). When you turn the other side, you turn your head 6, and it says, "The reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure, according to Article 157. The rules of procedure come from the fact that the conditions for withdrawing funds under this loan to the Government of the Republic of Poland amounting to $50 million, etc." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you who have read this argument, please explain to me whether the EPS, or the Government of the SRJ in 2002, was in charge, whether the loan was withdrawn, whether the loans had been paid, whether the EPS had used or had reason to adopt an emergency procedure to withdraw funds on this loan. There's something in the back of the hill that's really good. On the other hand, it's no good. So why did those who decided on our behalf, on behalf of Serbian citizens about borrowing, not call an international tender, why exactly at Poland and why exactly a trade loan from Poland. Wherever you showed up with the tender, the question is just how many would it be, and I guess it would be ten bids to borrow construction with their own resources, to install their products and pay them one day. What I'm talking about is quite normal in the world, therefore, that the state will call a tender, that companies will report through their state or national banks, as they are already called, provide counter-guarantee along with our banks from here, that the funds will be paid in accordance with the contract, but it's certain that in this case you would import much less quality equipment and the EPS would get something far better and better, because we all know that it's not some energy force of Poland. There are forces in the field of energy, production, which far exceed the quality, and as far as the price of what the EPS got, we have no answer whether the EPS took those funds in 2002, whether those funds were built in or still needed, and on this last reason, or contract, these funds still need to be withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the opportunities of this argument can't be seen from it, but based on the laws and arguments and practices that you've had so far, and I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, either shut them up, or tell them to come out, the bar will fall, and there will be no one to support it, I mean the MPs of the ruling coalition, so I can finish my presentation. The vast majority of these funds and all the funds we will be providing counterguarantee today, tomorrow and in the next period he went to consulting services to us, our electricity industry, which was famous for, in addition to the oil industry, besides research, known in the world for its solutions. We need Poles to provide consulting services, at least for two-thirds of this loan, and you know why? Because the then president of the SRJ, if he didn't have a leg then, a good part of those consulting services will be returned to him for good services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia's total scratching begins with what DOS-Mali rule began in 2000, worked until 2003, until 2004, and now we need to bring, in the legal frameworks, to pack up crime and thieving that was happening at the time. I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 7 and all amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, and we reject this bill. If this tranche was used in 2002, it means that Serbia's energy, that the EPS has already provided funds, has recovered funds from citizens. Look at the electric energy bills and you'll see that the EPS has already taken money from you, and if they haven't been taken and if they already have, as it says in these reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure, then we don't need this kind of loan. That's why I suggest that in the voting day, and I think it'll be Friday, you vote against such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17382	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROANING OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY FOR THE PEACE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITIES TO THE EUROPEAN INVESTICATION BANK (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the bill: Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Zoran Krasic. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17383	The government of the Republic of Serbia apparently had the intention of submitting this set of 10 counterguarantees, i.e. the law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, to confuse the MPs and to present this to us as a mere formality and as something that must be done. We in the SRS don't consider this a formality, especially when we don't think these laws have to be passed. In Article 1 The proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantees to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Community for the reconciliation of the arrived and the unpaid contractual commitments to the European Investment Bank, it is said: "The Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation as a counterguarantee of Serbia-Montenegro's commitments under the European Community loan to the European Community, in a part relating to the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 223,796,611,37 euros under the loan agreement, as a lender, the SRJ, as a borrower, and the NBJ, as a lender, signed in Belgrade on 14 September 2001. "In the light of the amendments, which I proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to delete Article 1 of the law, it states that this bill is the best evidence of the Continuance of the government of Vojislav Kostunica with the governments of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. There's a lot of these examples, but this one really is the one, not to mention the school example. We Serbian radicals, I repeat again, when in the then federal assembly we spoke of taking this loan, we voted against, because there is much vague and unspeakable in this law, as it was then. Because, in the light of the law -- the reasons for the law being passed, the government says that the reasons for the adoption of the law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, according to the loan of the European Community for the reconciliation of arrivals and the outstanding contractual obligations to the European Investment Bank, are contained in the provision of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's a law of duty. This is the law that was passed in 2001, and you remember, that is when the then government of the Republic of Serbia and the then assembly majority here and at the federal level took all possible loans that were placed at their disposal, under of course very unfavourable conditions for the citizens of Serbia. That was the so-called. The democratic time, when the MPs and representatives of the government at the time told Serbian citizens that they had come, the former regime is being removed in Serbia, now honey and milk will flow. Of which, ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost five years, and Serbian citizens well know which branches they have burned thanks to such a policy by the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic and the days of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Borrowing under unfavourable conditions, and on the other hand the funds that are owed are not invested in production, each day more and more people lose their jobs and today five years after so-called. democratic changes, following the infamous five-octobar revolution, citizens are left out of work every day and the ministers are coming out and informing citizens that this is the most normal thing, how many thousands in this segment or that segment of citizens are going to be out of a job. Pensions are shrinking, pensioners are told that they will not receive pensions and in really extremely difficult conditions for each Serbian citizen today we are talking about new borrowings, big money. I spoke in the principle debate of how many millions of euros it is, I have already forgotten, but it must be a very large amount. Then further in the reasoning of the law, it is said that loans under financial contracts concluded with the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Serbia are the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija", the Public Undertaking "The Railways of Belgrade" and the Republic Road Directorate. Ladies and gentlemen, within these combined agenda points, this counter-guarantee package, we have individual laws where tens and hundreds of millions of euros are owed, the Republic of Serbia counter-guaranteed for the tasks of Elektroprivreda, ZTP and the Republic Road Directorate. What does this mean now? What's this all about, if we already have the special laws and special loans these companies took and where's the money? That money's been spent. Where are they? Of these three companies, who received a total of 223m euros? What did anyone spend that money on, what's the interest on this loan? We have no relevant information that as serious people and as serious MPs we can say that there is a basis for voting for this law. It is truly unacceptable and incredible that none of you from the ruling majority, you who will vote for these laws, are you who will bring citizens of Serbia into debt by your vote, and it is amazing for me that none of you will think of asking for a minister of finance to come here and explain to the peoples of Serbia how much funds these three companies have received and what these funds have been invested for, how much interest is paid. So if we had those elements, then we could say, and then you'd have an excuse maybe, you'd understand what you're voting for, but I don't think any of you really know what you're voting for. If he knows by chance, I would like someone to come out and tell us exactly, not to read this truly insurmountable explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but to explain it to us on the elements. It's not a little 223m euros. It would be really good and necessary if we knew exactly where those funds went. At the end of this argument, we have one lie, where the government informs us of the reasons for passing this law by emergency procedure, and says that the issue of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro is necessary, but by an urgent procedure, in order for JP "Electroprivred Serbia", JZTP Belgrade and the Republic Road Directorate, as loan users, to start using funds on this loan as soon as possible. Who does this government deceive? These funds were taken in 2001, spent a long time ago, and the government tells us that we need an emergency procedure law so that the funds could be spent. If it's a coincidence that they weren't spent, and of course it's not true, then why didn't they tell us where those funds were, what was going on with them, who turned them around. Perhaps someone is at the expense of some good job for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. Of course not. If he had, he would have praised the minister here with such information. The funds have been allocated, the funds have been spent, we don't know who spent them, we don't know which of these three public enterprises have received these funds, and we're asked to press this key, to say that we're in favour of passing such a law. We Serbian radicals will not vote and we cannot vote for such a law, because we always want to tell the citizens of Serbia clearly and openly what we vote for, and if we think it is justified, then we explain it, as we explain today our position that we should not vote for this law on the granting of counterguarantees, nor for any of these laws on the giving of counterguarantees. Because this is literally the planting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, with insufficient data, with insufficient arguments, without the presence of a representative of the Government here, who may be able to answer these questions, I just don't know what will answer these and similar questions if indeed the President of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, invites him to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17384	Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the former government of Serbia, with Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, went into such debt and increased the total amount that the Serbian citizen, on various grounds, was in charge of, in which the then Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus gave his best support, that we today have the overall responsibility of our country of around 14 billion euros, not 9, as the finance minister said the other day. We don't have that debt crisis at all, we simply find ourselves in it, and citizens who with a hard time provide the means to survive from month to month, and know that expensive banking loans, with a chill, follow the situation in our economy, what they lack from the elemental things for normal existence, and are under great pressure because of the fact that it's one preparation, don't God, for the Argentine script. But if this is how it continues to be in debt, and it doesn't start business and people have nothing to live on and work on, it's not gonna be good. We therefore want to tell you that this way and this ratification of spent money from the previous DOS government, and you are also inclined to re-indebt and to take various loans, is not good for the local self-government unit, let alone for the Republic of Serbia, because they are large amounts. It is questionable whether all three users agree in these divisions, and one MP expressed doubt that this is not the case. I didn't get to add it up right now and see if that amount corresponds to the users of the loan. I want to focus your attention on the way these funds have been spent and the total amount of borrowing funds from the European Investment Bank for the various projects Serbia has signed, not just on these 223 million, and I don't know who it came to by the promoter to round it up to 225. Account, what's a million and two hundred, three hundred thousand, it's nothing, or two million, we're going to round it up this obvious. In 2003, it continued with this so-called. projects at the European Investment Bank and I have the exact information that says that this debt has reached 426m euros in total by the end of 2003. In 2003 alone, 162 million and a half of the report we are likely to receive next year, and we will see how much you, as a new government, in 2004 and in 2005, respectively. If this continues, if every year on average the government is in debt to the European Investment Bank for about 180, 160, and sometimes more, and before that was 300, here are 225 million, only one bank in 10 years, and five years has passed since so on. change in our country, we're in debt for half a billion euros, so 10 years for a billion euros. When you look at it, it should be so obvious that a billion euros has been invested in various projects. No, there is still a state of stagnation and nothing is going on to improve the living standards of the population, including employees in these companies, because when you look at the chaotic situation in the Yugoslav Railway, as well as in the Roads Directorate, when they were concessions, we talked about various abuses and bad projects and assessments of concessions. And others, very professional, the people of the Republic Directorate have given us a clear projection of how much the state could make based on toll alone. After all, it is now to you, as you like to say, transparently, because the toll from Belgrade to Nis is, what, more than 1,000 dinars, 700 or 800 dinars at least, because to Batocina is about 400 dinars and for freight vehicles, so you calculate how much it is. So, through its own income, the states get a lot more than these loans that we are unclear about who they are and how they're placed. The former chairman of the board of directors, and now Minister Radomir Naumov, criticising then as some alleged opposition opposition opposition, but not exactly, as a representative of the DSS, such a move by the DOS authorities, said that this large amount of craftsmanship allegedly indicated here by the contract, both in the previous and in the case of this European Investment Bank. This is not a good way and a good way, because Serbian citizens have no direct benefit from it, and to the greatest extent they have only damage, because when they arrive on the other hand, and the tranches to repay credit, and when the EPS, first and foremost with these two criminals, sees that it needs to return a certain amount of credit, increases the price of electricity and this new power shock, i.e. the impact is in favour of it. For reasons of law-making, it is not clear how someone could have written that these funds were used for modernising the EPS, which has a positive impact on the continuous supply of electricity and the removal of opportunities for the occurrence of Hawaiian faults, which as a result can be excluded, when no amount of funds can ever end up being compared to the electricity system of a country. You think in America after those hurricanes or some other weather accidents, there's no power outage. We also have a country, such as Kragujevac the day before yesterday, and a few days before that Leskovac and Prokuplje, affected by elemental disasters, and as far as agriculture is concerned by electricity potential. I haven't received any information yet, the village of Pivara in Kragujevac, i.e. Filip Kljajic, who had lost power, had arrived in some parts in a succession, but I know that yesterday there was no electricity in that part of town. That's not enough reason and justification to take the funds, and especially when it's in mind, and I just told you through a number of examples, that in rural areas, electricity voltage is not satisfactory and that people are struggling there with that little machine and equipment that they have. In any forest village you appear, anywhere else in Serbia, the same peasants will tell you, that they have a low voltage and that they have to take care, especially when the power runs out. Devices in the town of Kragujevac are suffering. A woman got hurt by a TV set in her apartment because she forgot to turn it off when the power went out. It's one of the latest examples, the freshest one, who's going to make it up to her. Nobody. How many home appliances have died these days both in Kragujevac and elsewhere, where there have been incredible accidents and where the whole city has been shut off the grid, there has been no electricity. Some people weren't home, they didn't have a chance to control it. So, never in that sense can avert the haiarium, and what in the general population, to say, well, we need money for that. And this isn't where the reconstruction of the network was done, where that shift was made. It's just that there's so much money to be said, and in the previous and here, the Road Directorate, and the Railways, that's 225 million, and that the citizens don't know where these funds are spent. All over their pockets again, because their accounts are getting bigger and bigger, interest goes to it. They have to bring this all back through spending, through high prices, through bills that have nothing more to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17386	Thank you. Is anyone else on this amendment answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17387	Before I move to this amendment relating to Article 4 under the heading - Payment of loans, I must warn the public in the Republic of Serbia that at the end of 2001 a large number of agreements have been ratified in the Federal Assembly which have been concluded, starting with the first one with the Government of Switzerland, and later practically a whole set of agreements concluded with the European Investment Bank, which also concerned macroeconomic stability and allegedly aid, i.e. lending to our infrastructure and other needs. These were all loans that, I must say, were accepted by Miroljub Labus because he was headed by the negotiating team. To remind you, it's the time when Miroljub Labus wouldn't allow anyone to interfere in the economic affairs of the federal government. He ran the DOS economic policy, he was incomparable. Of course, the accomplice was, on the other hand or across the street, Mladjan Dinkic, who held the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time. What is characteristic of these agreements that have been concluded? You've had opportunities very often to hear that these are agreements with the most favourable conditions, with long periods of waiting before the first wars are paid off, etc. These are all loans that can be interpreted as-- we're giving you a loan, but we're also twisting your hands. It's loans by the stick system and that vegetable. The system is so characteristic and famous, because it has happened, believe it or not, in the past 15 years, in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, and especially it has been used when it comes to the territory where Serbs live. I must remind you that all these loans had their own annexes. They're identical annexes. There, depending on the loan, was prescribed between 10 and 12 conditions that SRJ must meet. Just to remind you, the condition was to raise the price of drugs to a European level, to coordinate pensions with an average rate, half to depend on the rise in prices to a little, half of the cost of living. There were also conditions that concerned our defence powers, the military and the police most directly. There was an unconditional co-operation with The Hague tribunal. There was a condition and a persecution of political insinuators, a persecution of officials who were removed on October 5th 2000. On that basis, those numerous criminal charges, those indictments, and those indictments were filed. The public remembers, it is the period when Mr. Angelkovic, as he was present first, was able to read that he had done something wrong and that the criminal report came later or perhaps not even today. This was justified by the fact that a sacrifice had to be offered, in order to secure the loan, to provide the loan. Everything was a victim, just to secure the loan, because without these resources, there's no development, no patching holes. There were various loans, on various grounds, for various purposes, and as time went by, we became witnesses, and when it comes to electricity, and when it comes to travel economy, and when it comes to macroeconomic stability, even when it comes to the conflict agreement, and when it comes to the regulation of external debt to the London and Paris Club. We've seen that there's no use in these loans. There is one benefit: 25-35% stays with the lender, because it directs it to consulting services, or it forces us to use the services of the selected company from abroad or from our country, where they wash this money so well, and the state owes and owes. In various games about this, I am now going back to what is prescribed by Article 4 of this bill, with a delay, after a few years comes this law which gives Serbia a counter-guarantee, because the state community is formally and cannot be some significant guarantee, since it does not have property. Contribution is double security. In Article 4, in the context of this counter-guarantee, it says: "The repayment of the loan is made on the order of the borrower, through the euro account of the borrower at the bank in Luxembourg, the number of accounts, or through another account that the borrower shall give to the borrower and the representative by written notice at least six working days before the relevant maturity date. "I think half-yearly repayment deadlines are this loan. You see for yourself, that principle here applies, but if you noticed Article 4 or Article 5 in other similar counter-guarantee laws, then you could see that the different banks are in circulation, where the accounts are, through which these funds are being managed. Many times there are domestic banks, but also some foreign banks. So, there is no single system in the negotiations between the European Investment Bank and those representatives who, at that time, negotiated the SRJ. Of course, we suspect that this is a clean job, because we have no information either, we have no idea whether these funds have been spent on purpose, whether they are used on purpose, in what sense the funds are used, through which business carriers, that perhaps in that part of our loan, which burdens the entire Republic of Serbia, are in some way getting away, going abroad or going towards this chosen group, which is the only one capable of doing financial business with institutions, state and para-state, but eminently to institutions that are controlled by Labus and Dinkic. These laws are one of the classic examples where a political assessment, the will of several people, as individuals, is promoted to state policy. For your information, I have to tell you that in 2001 and 2002, there were sharp conflicts in the then unique DOS, which is one group that is not a political party, which was founded under an IMF order, funded here until the end of 2002, when they saw that there was no need to finance it anymore, but they gave them a warrant to build their own party. Then they set out to build their own party, but during this whole period there was an obvious conflict between the economic elite, the politicians who deal with the economy of the financials, and, if I may say, this part of the government, so-called. general policies, laid down in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That conflict was latent, always present. A little public had a chance to hear about the conflict. However, there was a sort of division of business. The government and what is under government control are probably those public enterprises that, in the end of the day, are the end users of these loans, were in one game with the government, and this other part -- negotiation, consulting services, reference, opening accounts, etc. That part was controlled by G17 plus. I urge you to consider, no matter what it may seem to someone, it may be a little bit pointless, that in a counter-guarantee law, there is probably also an obligation to give counter-guarantee, and I'm just appalled that counter-guarantee is given with such a delay. Counterguarantee guarantees are given the moment the agreement is concluded as a means of ensuring the claim of the borrower. With great delay, it goes with these counter-guarantees. Probably the counterguarantee was not initially sought, but because of political instability and these relations between the president of the Republic of Montenegro and the Prime Minister of Montenegro and the rest of the world, because they are such a planetary programme, and these political instability, lenders are looking for these special securitys, it is a new means of security that guarantees them the sustainability of this claim for a long period of time, a team of which, before these agreements have been sealed and with some period, seems to me, about five years since the beginning of use, that only after five years, there is payment of the first war. So, some will act, what radicals object, when it must be supposed to. He doesn't have to. If he has to, then let every penny, every asset be spent, that he has some benefits, some benefits for the citizens. Because people can't understand, so much help has come to the electricity industry, so many remonts, so many things, and the price of electricity is being formed in our country independently of the economic criteria and the cost principle in the country, regardless of the social view, but by order. And the order was also issued in December 2001 when the legislation ratifying this agreement, where it is said that the price of electricity for the population has to increase further until it reaches a price that is acceptable and applicable in Europe. What benefits as a state and as a people do we have from these loans? I guess if these loans are to be reconstructed, and electricity is the general good of all citizens, and given the social status of citizens, why should we have to follow the price that is in Europe? Why should we have to follow? I guess some of the benefits have been achieved by the fact that the funds for the remont have also come in for new investments in the electricity industry. How is that possible, the money came, and we're getting electricity? What's this about? I remind you only of 2000 and 2001, at the time he was the Minister of Industry and Energy in Serbia Goran Novakovic, then, Kori Udovici, who said - who can't pay the electricity to sell the apartment he bought for free, so let him find a cheaper apartment, and by the way, that he has saved money to pay for electricity. Where is this benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What's the use of this borrowing? There are no benefits, there are only impositions, only even more expensive for citizens of the more difficult obligations they have on the basis of the well-being shared by Dinkic, Labus and the company, which has been granted the exclusive right to negotiate. We don't know if they've boxed the best conditions for our country. Here's how that bench unwinds, how some day some counter-guarantee law comes in, we see that it was unfavourable, that it wasn't in the citizens' interest. As for the dedicated use of funds, we can make some survey committees every day and only find a number of irregularities in spending these funds. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted, to draw the government's attention to the danger of a debt crisis that in a year and a half will rule, because our economy is not working, our economy is choking. Then where's the novelty? The new value is not in the loans. The novelty value is in labor, goods, services, in the gross social product that should grow. How our gross social product grows when it stagnates industrial production, when it stagnates all economic activities. We want to draw your attention -- and to you who decide on this and the Serbian public -- to all the devastating consequences of this policy that has been going on since 25 January 2001 to this day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17388	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now discussing counter-guarantee for loans and loans already taken by someone. He took and owed the Republic of Serbia. The agenda item is called "The proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Community to reconcile the achieved and unpaid contractual obligations to the European Investment Bank". Borrower -- on 14 September 2001 in Belgrade signed the contract, tasked the Republic of Serbia with, it can be said, rather large funds. Now I ask you, because at that time you were still a compact coalition, where are the donations? Whenever I turn on TV at the time, I open the newspaper, listen to the radio, the European Union reconstructs Serbia's economy, the international community helps us, the European Union gives us funds, we work, we'll be better, we don't have to live in fear of bombing anymore, we don't have to live in fear of sanctions, we'll have white Schengen visas; in fact, there won't be any visas, so you talked; that's how it was then. You were saying that the electricity industry is being modernised by donations, that it's the reason to raise the electricity price, because the donor asks you not to invest this money in an insane way, as you claimed at the time, but to adjust the electricity price to the economic price, that it's not a social category, that you have to make citizens pay for that electricity, that you have to threaten them, if they don't pay for electricity -- to sell apartments and pay for electricity. That's what you said when you were in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Even these MPs who are now here the opposition also spoke. Now we have one interesting thing here, that donations have nothing to do and that it's time for donations to pay, or return. Of the six billion dollars you waved at to get to power, there's nothing. From the donations to electricity and the reconstruction of the power system, there's nothing. We now have debts, we have the price of electricity that citizens are having a hard time paying, which has recently been expensive. Now I'm asking you-- where are those stories that have been going on for three, four, and here's the fifth year? You were talking at the time that in a year, everyone would be able to buy a car in five years' time, an apartment or a house. Someone, but not an ordinary, mediocre citizen, will be able to do it. I guess pre-election promises apply to the average citizen. He should be the most represented in the electoral body -- and he is the most represented, only now he's getting poorer and poorer. You have charged Serbia's Elektroprivreda with 2,483,107 euros in debt. You've raised the price of electricity, and let me remind you that you've prevented an accurate polling committee report on energy malversion, including electricity. One of those jobs put some pretty good money in his pocket. Some are assumptions - about half a billion euros. How many of these 2,483,107 euros ended up with a company called Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic? Did they import electricity with that money and sell it expensively to Serbian citizens? Did Serbian citizens buy electricity cheaply from money and export it out of the country? That's what the citizens didn't have. They had those who exported it -- Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Imagine who you will now be in charge of Serbia. If they're so powerful, if they've stolen so much money, and they have, then two and a half million euros for that society is nothing. At that time, while they were working closely and closely with you, and I believe now, they were making so much money for one morning, if they were doing well. They've made bad money and they've been living worse and worse because of this society that you've made possible for them, the citizens of Serbia. They chose you. Imagine when you press the button you're voting on, unless there's another vote from Bodrum or Thessaloniki. You are borrowing Serbian citizens with an additional 185,584.881 euros. That's what the Republic Road Directorate owes. The contract was signed in Belgrade on 14 September 2001 for the reconstruction of roads, approximately exactly in the day, the "Difens", or "Difens Road", began the reconstruction of the highway in the fire loop. Who was doing the reconstruction? Who owns the Diffens? Who profited from that job? The owner is Ljubish Buha, called Chuma. He bought machines to fix our roads with our money, put in charge of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, did some 70, 80km of highways in both directions, I mean 40 in one. Does it really cost as much as we owe the citizens of Serbia now? What about those machines? Dispute mobsters over the division of the spoils, then flew into the air. Who's gonna pay for it now? It's the citizens of Serbia again. The job was arranged afterwards for the Republic Road Directorate, we don't know, and you're hiding those reports like a snake's feet. It is only important that a few hundred million euros, as a matter of fact, will be owed to the citizens of Serbia. And who are the people who spent the money? The co-workers of the former government of October 5th with whom you want little, you won't be a bit. You want more than you want, but they're their associates. Now they're protected witnesses. Now they need to talk about who he was hanging out with, who he was doing what he was doing, but don't let God mention that then the government was behind all these jobs. Is that why they have witness status under you now? Is it true that the heirs of the Differents, or Differents Road, other legal entities where the founder is the same or someone has founded those legal persons, are slowly buying in the privatisation process all enterprises involved in the construction and reconstruction of roads. Is that what they buy with these 185 million 544 thousand euros? Who are they buying for? They're buying for themselves. Whose money? Serbia's citizens' money. Why now, in 2005, does the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discuss these counterguarantees? Why haven't we done this before? Why wasn't that on the agenda before? Why at least someone didn't try it in Sabre to push it through? Natasa Micic was inclined to do so. That's when the TV feed was shut down, so it could pass. Now the time has come to pay, which is why the debate is now being held, which is why the Republic of Serbia needs to give a guarantee, which is why the National Assembly needs to give consent, which is what bothers you. Otherwise this would never be on the agenda. Now, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, from the ruling majority, imagine yourselves well how you'll vote in the voting day. This money should be returned by Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and Ljubisa Buha-Cume, so as not to buy our businesses for our money, for the citizens of Serbia's money. Take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17390	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANJA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY BOOK OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINANCIAL SERBIA PROJECT OF THE HORSE SABIA (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the bill: Miroslav Nedeljković, Milan Veseinović, Milan Stevović, Miljko Četrović, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Antic and Darko Glisic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17391	Dear People's MPs, these ten draft counterguarantee laws were not accidentally found on the agenda, as originally proposed among 45 items of the agenda. It is likely that the rich agenda wanted to go a little bit noticed by the MPs, as well as by the public of Serbia of this point on the duties already done on the burden of the state and the people from 2001 to today. These duties should be taken over and entrusted to the state and the people with these counter-guarantee laws that we are discussing today in particular. The draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance an emergency traffic recovery project has a total of seven members. The law, i.e. the financing agreement between the SRJ and the European Investment Bank, was signed in Belgrade on 13 December 2001 to finance an emergency traffic recovery project. This was on 13 December 2001, and therefore the ratification of the contract or agreement in the SRJ Assembly followed, and until today or until the proposal of this counterguarantee law was proposed, the use of this loan was not started, and it totalled 66m euros. The loan to the European Investment Bank, 50m euros to Serbia, and 16m euros to Montenegro. However, as a result of the crackdown by DOS leaders, the current then government of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, the European Investment Bank probably did not want to allow this loan to be used until the counter-guarantee of the state of Serbia, or Montenegro, for those amounts to be used, because the Serbia-Montenegro community does not have its own assets and cannot guarantee that this loan will be returned. If the loan or loan was in December 2001 under some emergency recovery project, what it means now after four and more years. On the other hand, I said that in these 10 points on the counter-guarantee bill there are five or six related to traffic. This is about urgent traffic recovery, the next draft law is for financing and restoring roads in the Republic of Serbia, so the next bill is for financing the European roads project Serbia-Montenegro, etc. When the argument is considered, the reasons for the law's adoption, among other things, is that the contract is concluded in order to realise priority investments in the traffic infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. Priorities or this project is no longer relevant for the past four years, because the analysis of the effects of this law states that by obtaining this loan, financing, recovery and reconstruction of roads, bridge repair, construction of new buildings at border crossings, as well as the recovery of the main infrastructure of the airport, including air and road traffic areas. When we analyze all of this and look at it, these 50m euros will now be taken after the adoption of this counter-guarantee law, whether it will focus for certain purposes and according to this project that was done in 2001. On the other hand, what's all that's listed here? What projects there are and how they will use these funds. Basically, the question is whether there are any obligations to the state of Serbia for this time from 2001 to today, for not using this credit and for not fulfilling the conditions for the use of credit, because no bank, nor will the European Investment Bank allocate certain funds, even if you are a user, if you do not meet the conditions and there are no obligations for those funds defined for a specific purpose. Through the debt and these 50m euros, and giving to use the Directorate as a direct user and airport to Belgrade, as a public enterprise, and we know the situation, as well as the citizens of Serbia, as the Belgrade Public Enterprise, which all affairs have been happening and the question is what is happening today to the public company, whether these 50m euros will also be used to equip luxury salons at Belgrade Airport, whether the Roads Directorate will use it for the immediate recovery of traffic. Because the project certainly does not exist and does not exist now, given that – since the coming of the democratic bloc to power, since January 2004, since the takeover of this part by the Ministry of Capital Investments from New Serbia, or Velja Ilic -- huge funds are spent every day throughout Serbia. Since there is no Minister of Finance here, nor Minister of Capital Investments, whether the Roads Directorate has any programme and work plan, whether it has had for the previous years and whether it has for this year, and whether other funds from the budget, from the billing of the road and many credits that have been used so far for the Road Directorate, whether they are used according to some programme and plan and for the reconstruction of the highways across Serbia. Serbian citizens are witnesses that wherever Vela Ilic appears, he throws millions of dinars, so he says, you don't have a road in this village, you don't, I'll provide you with five million you get tomorrow. You don't have a road, you'll get ten million tomorrow, I'll help you solve the question of the pass in New Market when he was with Suleiman. When he came to the Kings and to the Happy Landing, he said, tomorrow we begin with a bypass around the Kings. But he probably said that in that condition when he was on that raft, so he saved that fine lady, as he said, so she cooled and the cloudy water of Ibra cooled him down a little bit, or he wasn't aware of what he was saying. There is no bypass in either the King or Novi Pazar, and there are no millions that he promises daily throughout Serbia. It will have to be made before the citizens of Serbia, before those who stand out for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from those funds is used for capital investments, and especially for the funds used by the credit, and we do not know the credit on which terms, because all the counter-guarantee laws are only given in several members, and we do not have as MPs or contracts on these loans, nor the conditions for the use of these loans, nor the obligations that the state, in the end, assumes for the orderly return of these loans. If the users of these loans are the Directorate for Roads and the Public Enterprise of Belgrade, if it is specifically about this 50m-euro loan, if the Roads Directorate does not return those commitments properly, the funds will have to be provided and paid at the bank's expense, as stated in Article 4, in wars and tranches with all their obligations. When we saw the previous law on counter-guarantee for a loan already used by 225 million, and we don't know at all what it was used for, and most of it was for roads, SRS deputies suspect the intentional use of these funds, 50m euros, because surely there is no project on traffic recovery and that these funds will be used by Velimir Ilic, who will directly give control to the director of the Serbia Roads Directorate and will say, today, I am transferring so much funds here, today we are opening up 200m to reconstruct, tomorrow we are reconstructing there, and there is no possibility that there will be no control of any funds or funds used on the roads of Serbia. Consciously, it is done and thoughtlessly, to begin in hundreds of places and that no one can control how many works there have been, how many asphaltes have been spent and how much funds will be used and paid. As evidence of this, by privatising the roads companies that have so far been made throughout Serbia, with other private individuals who have entered into reconstruction and road construction in Serbia, there is only an additional possibility of abuse and funds from the budget, and credit funds that have been used so far and will be used. The SRS parliamentary group has not submitted amendments without reason and on the proposal for this law, and we hope that not all members from 1 to 7 will pass, which we propose to delete, given that we do not have any indicators, nor determined facts to vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17392	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. I'm sorry, Mr Krasic, I had a warning from those who are following, we just crossed the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the European Investment Bank for the settlement of the arrived and unpaid contractual obligations to the European Investment Bank. So we're past point 21, and now we're at 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17393	It's a good thing you quoted what was on the agenda, because now there's a difference. The previous point is the reconciliation of the commitments reached, which means the loan funds have already been spent, and this point is called completely different: giving counter-guarantee to the European Investment Bank for the financing of emergency traffic recovery projects. I think it may be necessary for someone from the government to be present right now to explain to us what this is really about. If you look at the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, then you will clearly find that it is written – an emergency procedure stems from the fact that the condition for the withdrawal of funds under this loan to the European Investment Bank, worth 50m euros, is to issue a counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. This means that these funds are in some account and as soon as counter-guarantee arrives, then the Republic of Serbia can withdraw these funds through these institutions and benefit from these purposes for which it is agreed. However, our public has a completely different knowledge. Of the 66 million, the amount of the loan contract has been concluded, 50 refers to the Republic of Serbia and 16 to the Republic of Montenegro. What is intended for this loan to the Republic of Serbia concerns the tasks to be done by the Republic Roads Directorate and the jobs to be done by the Public Enterprise of Belgrade. The promoter explained exactly what business it was. By obtaining loans, it is possible to finance, restructure and reconstruct roads, stabilise the rinks, repair bridges, build new facilities at border crossings, as well as resuscitation of the airport's main infrastructure. The airport's main infrastructure, I potential, including the facilities and surfaces for air and road traffic. If the purpose of this loan is looked at, for which jobs it is intended, what should be done with these money, then the question is rightly raised after the airport reconstruction was completed in 2003 or 2004. I remember there was even an affair over the price of ficus and that special salon, where large funds were spent. The operation was led by a lady minister, known for her father-in-law as Serbia's oldest DJ disk. Of course, she wasn't just doing it, she was doing other things, but someone from the government needs to explain to us whether those funds were withdrawn, whether they were in any function. I doubt that these funds will yet come, because simply what we had the opportunity to hear in the media during the reconstruction of the airport, during the reconstruction of the roads directed by Ministers, Chume and others, these funds were the source, these were the means of reconstruction. Here in terms of an emergency procedure, of course, an emergency procedure after two and a half years since the adoption of the Law of Indemnity, I'm surprised it's only now an emergency procedure for counter-guarantee, I guess if it was necessary two and a half years ago to secure the funds for the recovery, then it took the logic of things to immediately give counter-guarantee to withdraw the funds as soon as possible. I doubt it, I think that these funds have been spent, and that the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia is an ex post condition because of the political instability and turmoil that is happening with us. Let me remind you, the paper said that these funds were intended to settle some of the highways towards Kumanov and that in the meeting of last year's Olympics in Greece, which is also a failure. What I'm saying is that one set of people, who grabbed this job to work, cheated abroad, and put us in charge. So they cheated there, too, because probably the reconstruction of the airport building wouldn't be in Paris either, and in London it's that much, if you look at the price of pixels, golden spoons, ficus, etc. Just to remind you, at the end of that government that was headed by Zoran Zivkovic, he asked for its resolution. The first was public -- resign, and an official proposal was finally submitted for her to be relieved of the duties of the minister of traffic and connections. So I think today it was necessary for him to be a representative of the government here, to first explain to us whether these funds are still coming or whether these funds have been spent. If those funds are yet to come, then no one has the right to raise his hand and vote for counterguarantee, because we know how those funds are spent. We are stronger, we have some experience, and on the basis of these and similar loans in 2001, strategic positions were created on our market, so that drug dealers, resellers, immediately checked out and went to model asphalt manufacturers, machine owners, the only machines in the country that could do some work. And, of course, the Roads Directorate, the Public Enterprise "Belgrade Road" or something for a long time, it's just simple transmissions that supposedly all go through, but it's known where it ends. You remember those tenders set up, so at least in public there were stories, so the Directorate argued who was the most favourable, why it was the most favourable, and these loans were tied to a combination of a few mixed feelings. The one who makes an account for some use. These are some services, processing requirements, credit, opening accounts, and there's a drop in them. The state here shows the need, this is realised through its main company, and this is the link with Article 2 of this bill, which defines the volume of these funds, since the loan of 50 million and the counter-guarantee is given to cover the loan, but certainly also for the interest and other costs that follow this. If the other terms of use of this loan are taken, it cannot ultimately be reduced to 50m euros, but a far higher amount, because interest goes, costs go, and if they are late to pay, you know how it is charged or activated by the counter-guarantee, where the funds are provided in the budget. As for this part of the loan, the whole package is 66 million, and 50 million is intended for Serbia, highways and airport. You immediately saw what kind of interest appeared, and now we have a new group of people who are interested in roads, who have never been in the travel industry, they are now buying out one-by-one road maintenance company, because obviously this is some strategic position and we will probably still need an investment in our infrastructure. You know, every investment in infrastructure pulls some other business branches, so since that healthy money, normal money in payment traffic is gone, then there's a kind of regrouping, so those who used to do milk now show great interest in machines that handle highways, to get back through the Public Procurement Act, and that's the law on furniture procurement, two or three people in any procedure, and then the annexes know how it goes. The central question now is why Serbia's citizens should pay for the unfeeling wealth of a selected group of individuals. These normal money, healthy money, are in exactly the right places. You in Serbia have five locations per branch, based on companies, banks, etc. That's the only approach they've chosen. This is a good excuse, because you can rarely convince someone in Serbia that there is no need for road reconstruction, everyone knows that road reconstruction is needed, for years there have been no investment in roads, there was simply no means, there was no reproductive capacity of our Road Directorate, and not even for the ongoing maintenance, let alone for something new. They're preparing, you know, two concessions themselves, also related to these main roads. We already have a fee for using roads at European price level, go to Belgrade-Nish and see how much you will give for the toll alone, but our salaries are not European, our standard is not European. We can't pay, we can't take it. A simple citizen can't take it. He doesn't have a job. Just a few more interesting things; formally-legal this loan will be paid by the Republic Roads Directorate and JP Belgrade Airport. Now I'm not going in if that's the real name, probably is, and then the question is, what are we doing with those parts of our structure that are meant for this law? What has been done with the airport, what has been done with our highways, not only in what state they are, but what country's determination towards these undoubtedly general goods for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then the first picture of the airport-JAT makes some kind of unity, and in JAT until two or three months ago there was everything and everything, so we had strangers come to fix the planes, and that chaos deepened. Road economy; there is no bridge around which you can agree whether you need a reconstruction or need a recovery or something to do; whether you need to be at the same level, whether you need two meters lower or two meters higher, a parallel bridge that goes next to Beška. And I just reminded you of Beška, and I don't want to open the topic, since we have proposed the formation of a survey board, unfortunately, because of professional issues, although the Assembly is not an expert body, simply to make sure that some of them are persistently refusing something, and then we had to take a scientific study of people who controlled and saw and pointed out all the problems that exist on that facility. Why does that work for us? How long can it go with us? One of them is in debt, the other is distributed, the third is formally used, the fourth is in cash, we all pay, the Directorate needs to pay. What happens if business is compromised, the Directorate simply can't collect, the expected revenues are missing, the counter-guarantee is activated. There is an answer to the question, why such high foreign reserves are unnecessarily held in this country. Foreign exchange reserves in this country are not in function of the stability of our currency. The stability of dinars and course can be preserved with a far smaller amount of foreign exchanges that would be found in the NBS reserves. This size of foreign reserve is primarily a guarantee to foreign lenders that their loans will be returned under all conditions, and even provided that citizens die in the streets in Serbia, their claims are secured, there are large foreign reserves, and there would have to be a governor of the NBS to tell us where he keeps the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17394	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) One announcement, the 28th session of the Committee on Culture and Information, will be held on Wednesday, 13 July 2005, starting at 1200 hours, in the second floor hall. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's how we move away with the agenda, and we see that you've become more and more indebted to the Republic while you've been DOS, more and more. We discussed some 185m euros in the Republic Roads Directorate and some contract signed on 14 September 2001. Here's a new contract. Three months later, on December 13, 2001, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were again in debt with 50m euros, explaining the need to finance an emergency traffic recovery project in the Republic of Serbia. Let's take a look at the traffic. It is said that the beneficiaries of this loan are in Article 3 concerning this amendment, the Republic Road Directorate and the JP Airport "Belgrade". Both public enterprises, and the founder and owner of the Republic of Serbia, have raised some credit and spent. It just doesn't say here, as in the previous bill, how much he took from the airport and how much he took from the Republic Directorate. We said the Republic Directorate already owed 185m euros to Serbian citizens, and the money was taken by the mafia. They've done a little bit of work, the machines have blown up, the dots don't work anymore, but the citizens have to pay for it. Now we've come for new debts, alleged donations at the time. Then TV is included, for the reconstruction of the highway by EU means, which is a donation to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the reconstruction of Belgrade Airport, which is an EU donation, an international community. So far, it seems to me that the only donations we had in 1999 were a very large donation, and that donation cost NATO about $35 billion, so convert to the euro, and it caused us direct, indirect damage to hundreds of billions of dollars. Now we're in charge of fixing what they've been destroying. Reconstruction of Belgrade Airport; for 50m euros you could build an entire airport. Maybe not flying control where you have it, but it's under the federal flight control, so it's less important, but for 50 million euros you could have built an entire airport, with an airport runway, access terminals, a building for domestic traffic, a building for international traffic, etc. What did you do with those 50 million euros? They are invested in some VIP salons, ficus are bought, spoons of 600, 700 dinars are bought, and ficuses of 60, 70,000, copies of images for 300-320,000 euros. Is that what we tasked the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for? There's been a story about how you're gonna get it out of here, how to find out who's responsible, how the guilty will be punished, who's responsible? Who's being punished? Who's to blame, and let's say the suspect is after you? You arrested a former minister, who was on the Board of Directors of Belgrade, and now they're all defending themselves behind the decisions of a collective body, and the board of directors is a collective body, so we can't prosecute a collective body. Who prepared that? Who organized it? Who made the decisions outside the law? Who was setting up these boards of directors? Who was the pressurer and who shared the money? There are already crimes and it cannot be covered by immunity over collective bodies. There's a question of who's supposed to return it. The one who stole it. You all agree with me that this is the way it should be, at least for this pay phone. Now I ask you why we give counterguarantee. For some money someone stole, Serbian citizens should pay for it. It is said that borrowers return these commitments, and if they cannot activate the counter-guarantee, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament now need to vote and that these funds return from the Serbian budget. The S.R.J. has taken over. With a Belgrade agreement, you killed a federal state, abolished its original financing revenues, such as excise duties and customs. This has been taken over by the republics of a member of the state community, with us now allegedly having a single market, and two customs rates, two customs policies, and the single market is only on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You can see that there is no market in Montenegro anymore. They even falsify mineral water reports. The government of the Republic of Montenegro does not want Serbia to use its market, but is therefore extremely in the mood to place bananas, pineapples, lemons, oranges, grapes, though not theirs, is from Spain, but it does not matter, they also earn some money. To whose harm? At the expense of Serbian citizens, to the detriment of domestic agricultural producers. Now we're talking about how they put us in charge of something. Well, whoever's in charge should pay back. There were stories for the 2001 Olympics that we would manage to make a highway to the Greek border, if necessary, that even the Macedonians would make the way. The story lasted in 2001, well in 2002. By the beginning of 2003, before "Sablje", she suddenly collapsed. The funds were said to be approved by the Greek government. I believe they did, that this donation was approved by the Greek government, but it never came here. Now I ask you why? Or maybe I could look for an answer for myself, that people just didn't want to give you money, because the mob would spend it and the job wouldn't be done. You argued that the Greek administration was on vacation. Who else is gonna believe that? The administration of one state is on vacation and you cannot be passed on a donation! You promised too much, you did too little. And this new government, in fact, just wants to keep these counterguarantees old friends, because once again in some financial crisis, it needs to re-indemnify the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The financial crisis will be because the number of workers working is getting smaller and smaller, because imports are getting bigger and bigger, because policies like this government are being run, and continuing the continuity of the previous, simply not working in the citizens' interest, are working in the interests of some who need the Serbian market, at best, a simple Serbian workforce, just so we don't starve to death. This government will assign us, and they will give money to feed the people, that they may have a piece of bread, that they may not be hungry. I think the citizens of Serbia deserve much more than that and deserve a much better government than you do now. The elections are coming, they may already be in the fall. I am sure that now the citizens of Serbia will vote for that government that will work much better and much more in their interest and that there will certainly be an SRS in that government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17396	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, Ambassador Miljko Čtrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17397	Dear People's MPs, the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee is likely to enter into the essence of Article 4 so without it, this law could not have its own facts. Article 4. which has the title - Method of withdrawal of loan funds, reads: "The loan funds are withdrawn according to the request of the borrower, via the Ministry of Finance, to a special account – (with some letters) "EIB T. R. P. Loan F. R. Y. (Serbia)" which will be opened on behalf of the Republic of Serbia at the NBS." As we have already seen, in Article 1, this loan is for the immediate recovery of traffic, i.e. the contract was concluded on 13 December 2001, in Article 3, the beneficiaries of this loan are the Republic Road Directorate and JP "Aerodrom" Belgrade, in Article 4, it is clear that loan users do not need to meet any services to withdraw the loan of 50m euros. On the other hand, several members of this law do not see how much the borrower can withdraw funds. This clearly proves that there is no emergency traffic recovery project and that the funds will be withdrawn by the Directorate for Roads and the JP "Aerodrom" Belgrade, as decided by Minister Vela Ilic, director of the Directorate Jocic and the director of the JP "Aerom" Belgrade. It is incomprehensible that this way can determine the withdrawal of funds, especially from the loan. Jocic is the director of the Directorate, who works under the orders of Velje Ilic and only signs the release orders, as Vela defines. That will also be the case with these 50m euros. A dilemma is being set here - whether these funds have already been used and whether this is a cover, as well as for the previous counter-guarantee law. We don't have a finance minister here to ask him if any funds can be withdrawn without any documentation, which should be a basis and a basis for withdrawing funds. It seems it can be when it comes to loans, the Serbian state's debts, because those who came to power in 2000 are in power today, and with all these duties, hundreds of millions of euros back several years, with debt write-offs in Paris and London. They have not only facilitated the problem of debt to the state and to the people, on the contrary, from day to day, the states and the people are increasingly in charge. In 2007, when more than a billion euros are paid, we, as a nation and people, will fall into debt and then into debt slavery. As MPs, the SRS also stressed and requested that the government of the Republic of Serbia submit a report on its work for 2004, i.e. the implementation of the 2004 budget, which would include a report on the work of the Ministry of Capital Investments, and part of the report would have to be a report on the work of the Roads Directorate and a report on the work of the JP "Airport" Belgrade. Unfortunately, we are already halfway through July and we do not have a report on the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2004 budget, and therefore we will have a budget rebalance for the next session to continue planning and spending the funds in 2005. What is important here to say about this task and the use of these 50m euros by the Republic Road Directorate and JP Belgrade Airport. The government of the Republic of Serbia has entered a programme to restructure republican public enterprises. Therefore, both the Road Directorates and JP Airport "Belgrade". The restructuring goal of the republican public enterprises is to privatise them and the dictatorship to be implemented at the request of the IMF and the World Bank, for the republican public enterprises, as well as all public enterprises in the state, to be privatised. Whether the restructuring and preparation of the tender is both for the Republic Roads Directorate and for the JP Airport "Belgrade" is the obligation to use the funds as non-intentional as possible, without making an account, and that the next day, in the tendered tenders, these companies will be privatised, and the liabilities of the used loans remain in the state and the people. It is an obvious and clear example of Željzar Smederevo, where hundreds of millions remained as liabilities for loans used for Jelizara Smederevo back in decades and beyond, remained as a commitment of state and people, while Željzara Smederevo was sold for 21 million dollars, not only of the ironworks, but also of the port, customs zone. Now we have witnessed the praise of the work of Jelizara. Normally, it works successfully when all obligations from the Ironworks are removed and left to the state and the people. Is this going to be the same situation that, in addition to many credits, that the Roads and JP Airport "Belgrade" has so far been exploited, remain as a commitment of state and people, while some Western European buyers who have already registered their companies and who will buy the Directorate for Roads and JP Airport "Belgrade" appear through restructuring and tender sales? One more question, about the Road Directorate. It was on the agenda here to discuss the Law on concessions on Serbia's highways. We, as the SRS parliamentary group, have also argued with facts through the discussion, taking too much into account Serbia's public, have proved that concessions on built highways of Serbia are looting and kidnappings of huge part of the money that will be charged through tolls for next year by concessionaries who have already been prepared in Western Europe, who have registered and who will appear in the concession tender, to charge concessions on the built highway from Novi Sad to Nis and on the part of the already built highway from Novi Sad to Sudotica. The new Hamovics and Lazarevics and many others, who register their companies in Western Europe, will receive billions of euros in toll collection, and the Roads Directorate has already raised the price or toll fee by 60% a few days ago, have prepared to level the tolls with tolls in Europe, i.e. tolls for domestic and foreign vehicles, so that those already organised, with the help of the Ministry of Capital Investments of the Republic of Serbia in these concession tenders, will be these concessionaries, for the next 20 years, and even mentioning a period of 30 years, will rob Serbian and Serbian citizens for several billion euros. Therefore, this amendment to Article 4 requires the removal of Article 4 as there is no conditions for withdrawing funds, nor evidence of the purpose of those funds, for which it is to be used, from loans to be taken over by the state and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17398	Thank you, Mr. Four. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17399	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance emergency traffic recovery projects. This Article 5, as well as others in this bill, should be deleted, as should the law's proposal, as the finance minister seems to have come to the future on a time machine, so instead of 2002, he seeks guarantees in 2005 for something already spent. It was spent in 2002, 2003. Some of these funds have been renovating the freeway lanes, some of them, such as the beneficiary of this loan JP Airport "Belgrade", were buying 40,000 ficuses, coffeespoons of 600 dinars, expensive paintings, cups, etc. Nice, you take the luxury loan, the state pays for the embezzlement of JP Airport "Belgrade," and the workers strike, start from pilot to airman. New aircraft models are already flying through the sky, but foreign companies, while loan money has been spent on pixels, pots and Chinese vases. As explained in the explanation of the amendment I submitted, the current government of Vojislav Kostunica's relationship with the previous DOS government is very clear here. The finance minister earnestly covers what happened back in 2002 and 2003, and on the spending of these funds. We don't have any information on what that money was spent on, does it have any positive effect on money returns or profits? But, given that Mladjan Dinkic, as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, managed money flows, if the famous minister of traffic in the former government of Democrats, Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, known under the rise of dedicated loans to members of the rope family, was in charge of spending that money, then it is no wonder that the affairs about JP Airport "Belgrade" came up in the light of day. Was anyone responsible for the affairs in the mentioned JP? Has the total damage been determined by the mindless waste of money for a mere interior? Here's your continuity between the former and current DOS government. In this case, it is 50m euros, but since we have 10 draft laws to give counterguarantee with delay, it is a sum of around 700m euros. It's just like if someone came to the municipality to take out a birth certificate from someone who died three years ago. Citizens have nothing to expect from this government. Again, the same actors who are slowly pushing Serbia into the mud are on the scene, and this will make it difficult to lift it. Why were these counterguarantees not dealt with by the former assembly, there remains an open question for representatives of those parties who at the time made up the mutilated DOS majority? Now Dinkic, as finance minister, can jump out of his time machine again and say - I am submitting a bill on granting counter-guarantee for a loan that will be spent on the already built "Derdap I". The SRS sees this way as the government of the Republic of Serbia proves how unserious it is and how it does not care about the funds of Serbian citizens. They have collected all the money from the citizens by force of the law, boasting of the full budget, but that is why the pockets of Serbian citizens are empty and therefore Serbian citizens are hungry. Radicals will never vote in favour of such bill proposals, which have borrowed large funds in illegal flows, used for the purposeless use and payment of workers from the staged tenders. Those who vote for the bill, who do not support the amendments to the SRS, show in the most direct way that Serbian citizens approve of the wasteful behaviour at JP Airport, thus showing their relationship with those taken daily to satisfy the personal whim of the finance minister. I therefore call on MPs to support the amendment to Article 5 of this bill in the voting day, not to become accomplices to those who bought ficuses for 40,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17400	Anyone else? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17401	I'm protesting again that there are no government representatives when this bill is being considered. If by any chance a representative of the government were here, I would convince him to adopt this amendment. The amendment refers to Article 5 of this proposal, and Article 5 reads: "The loan payment is made by order of the borrower, via NBS, in euro". How can this be in the Counterguarantee Act? This is the matter regulated by the debt agreement. The agreement provides for what is the obligation of the borrower. It is prescribed that he repays the loan, within which deadlines, in which he withdraws, how he repays the loan, which is interest, what period. Why this provision in the counter-guarantee law? This is in direct contrast to what is the rule of conduct and the rule of working in this area and is in conflict with what we talked about last week about public debt law. How is it possible for us to prescribe a counter-guarantee law where we give a means of security? In a normal business relationship, a business depends on whether a borrower has secured a bank's guarantee. It's just a legal job. The law is only the way in which one guarantee, a double guarantee, is given, a counter-guarantee guarantee that the Republic of Serbia guarantees its assets that the loan will be returned. In such a paper, how can such a law include this provision, which enters into something that is a matter of trustee and debtor relations, and the Republic of Serbia is a possible debtor if counterguarantee is activated? Someone felt that if he submitted a counter-guarantee bill and put only two or three members there, that it was not enough, and then piled up a few more members, it doesn't matter what the members said. We have, of course, submitted amendments, and there has been someone in the government sitting there and taking some opinion, the amendment is not accepted, the amendment is not accepted, the same reasoning, etc., and now we need a representative of the Government to tell us why Article 5 must stand in the Counterguarantee Act. In both guarantee and counter-guarantee, when a specific relationship is made on the basis of the means of payment security, the counter-guarantee is a means of payment security, in this respect the conditions under which the counter-guarantee is given. It is not possible for us to give counter-guarantee on condition that the loan is borrowed through the NBS. This has already been contained in the basic contract on the basis of which the debt took place. It's similar with the next member. Look, he says the loan money will be provided by the loan users. What does that have to do with the counterguarantee law? If the counterguarantee law was to regulate the relationship between the Republic of Serbia as a counterguarantee and the end-user of the loan funds, then there is no room for this provision in this law. But this relationship was defined by other laws that we had the opportunity to discuss in this assembly, most of them voted, and I will only as an association to set an example of the Mining-Topier Baseline Bor, where the state took the obligation and on that basis for the second time acquired property over RTB Bor. The exact same situation and why we are burdening ourselves with certain provisions that absolutely in legal life mean nothing. It's being inserted here to simply cover up and cloud that essence, and we'll probably be able to end the debate over these few points that make up some unity finally get an answer whether this loan is spent or still needs to be taken, because by the letter of the law, or chapter 6 of the reasoning -- the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, it is stated here that two years ago the contract was concluded, it is now urgent that the counter-guarantee be used in order to use the funds. But what we know in public, these funds have already been spent, and on the basis of these spent funds, the whole series of affairs has been shaking Serbia from 2002 to today. And the highway, and that salon at the airport, with those icabans and those ficuses, etc. Then why is there something in the bill that's not matter? How could this have been done in the Secretariat for the Law of the Republic of Serbia? This is not the matter of this law. If you have had doubts about the previous amendments, you will not be wrong here if you adopt this amendment, because the amendment throws out of the bill something that is not even the place to be in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17402	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome our men from Australia who attend the balcony. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Antić has submitted an amendment to a member who defines the loan user's obligations and as one of the really biggest legal experts in the legislative area in Serbia, Mr Zoran Krasic, has said, not that it is not a place for this member here, but this is completely pointless for us who are not lawyers. If we look at and read anyone who ever signed a contract with a financial institution, they'll see that this defines the relationship between loan users and a bank that's a lender. It is pointless at all that you accept that you are discussing and verifying a counter-guarantee that is not only in the media sense, but in the pocket of Serbian citizens has shaken Serbia, and this way will be even more. Because if you know, and this was said by counterpart Krasic earlier, that one ficus cost 40,000 dinars, which they bought with the nomination of Rasate, those who managed the project of reconstruction of Belgrade, gilded trays of 70,000 and one such unscrupulous behaviour and statements that followed, then it is immoral to verify, or to approve that this counter-guarantee was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially because immediately after the authorities took over, you forgot about the non-agreement, but obviously the robbery. You never launched the possibility that the survey committee would deal with this issue, you did not want to support it, nor did you ask the finance minister, now Mladjan Dinkic, to submit a report to the National Assembly, either of the parties in power, because you are simply not interested in it anymore. It was all over that people's "shake up, have been born a mouse" and what's going on now, nothing. Someone put millions of dollars in their pockets. Don't you think there should be further work on the recovery, but in the true sense of the word and the restoration of the roads in Serbia, there will be no normal government. They will, the radicals will take over the country and every penny, and every cent, any foreign currency that is spent, will be presented to the public. It's impossible for you to tell us how you inherited these conditional terms, but really it's the money that DOS officials, primarily those in DS, spent the way they wanted it, and to say that something was done and that you've been supporting those projects ever since; you don't know, you don't even have a specification of those costs, and that the whole affair wasn't triggered if you found out that the ficus cost 40,000 dinars and that someone was so rich and spent the money of the citizens. We are now faced with the situation that in 2005, the road network and part of the road, if you want one and the other direction, and this one from Belgrade towards Nis and vice versa, in some phase of reconstruction after those jobs you gave Chumet's "Difens Road", to his wife and to his criminal clan, were done by predecessors from the DS, and you kept silent and continued to act the same way and not to talk about it. And now you have a situation where, in the middle of the season, when our country is going through the transit mass of tourists, there is a reconstruction of the part of the road at the Great Plane, where it is. And if there's no euro diesel on the pumps, and you want to incasate some money and say, here in two or three months how long this tourist season takes, the state can make some money. It is surprising that these people who are the service in the right sense of words on both sides of the highway, because they cannot explain themselves to those who pass through Serbia, who are in transit, and are moving to other destinations, to explain themselves that nothing works normally in the country. It doesn't work, certainly, when there are no elevators in the pumps and when the road reconstruction, after those powerful Cumet reconstructions, or stealing money and abductions, is now working on the same shares. It's pointless to keep your mouth shut and not say a single word, and the minister isn't here, not to react to the amendments of the SRS MPs, and, you know, now I'm talking to you who are in this ruling coalition, that it's true what we've been saying all morning and what we've been telling you for days, when it comes to these counterguarantees. For money robbed or spent in a suspicious way, in some of the above projects, you want to press the green button in the voting day, and you have decided to do it Friday, you are in a hurry with the budget rebalance, and on that day you will come, you will gather, here are some who come in and out, only come when the vote or pass to finish some of your work. And so, a total of 800m euros for all counterguarantees. Is that normal for you? Of course not. If you say it's normal, and you don't have a report on who it is, where and how your predecessors spent money, when you know there's been so much robbery at Belgrade Airport, go ahead, vote for it, but the citizens know who they're dealing with, with you who are in power in Serbia, and we won't be in charge of this, nor would we ever agree to the unseen. There's gangs, thieves, criminals, that we're putting this kind of money in our hands to allegedly do some projects for years, and in a few days or a month, they're putting millions in their pockets. You know very well that it has happened, and if your conscience tells you to vote for it, go ahead, vote, and we will be determined against it, and we will end up giving you all the data, because we know that abuses have been committed when it comes to these millions in euros and dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17404	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17405	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there would be nothing disputed about article 7. It's a bill of law. It is said - this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So, in voting day, since this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that the majority of the assembly, which is in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will vote on this bill and make the proposal a law. The result is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to return 50m euros on behalf of some debt. I'd like to ask you a question. We know who the user is here. It is said -- Belgrade Airport, Public Enterprise, and the Republic Road Directorate. This argument given with constitutional grounds, reasons for adoption, explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions, analysis of the effects of the law, reasons for passing laws by emergency procedure, why don't you simply ask the question, you who support that ruling majority, where the money is spent? It's been four years since the money was spent, someone spent it. What did he spend that money for? Why don't you ask that question? I think you have the right to know that, you will vote for the citizens of Serbia to return it, you have the right to know, because tomorrow you will go out on the street and you will be asked by one of those who voted for you, why did you charge it with 50m euros? He wants to know where that money was spent, he wants to know who spent it, who made the profits, whether it's really intended or it's a classic abuse? These are questions that need to be asked to the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know that, and I don't believe that it does, and I'm sure that the money has been spent without purpose, or that every service and every commodity has not been paid by this money in accordance with the law of payment, I'd just like to remind you then, that at the moment of the debt and the spending of this money we didn't even have the Public Procurement Act. The question really arises why someone hastened so much that during an extremely short period of time, which was three or four months, they tasked the Republic of Serbia with several hundred billion euros, which is the effect of the task. The effect is gone. I agree that the infrastructure is important for functioning in the economy, for society as a whole, but you took some responsibility, that in some factory that will be privatized, you would reorganize, restructure, win new programmes, find the market, did you use business delegations when you ran around the world and prayed for some cent or dollar donations, and you only got contracts to act on. I ask the question, what about the foreign and gold SFRJ reserves and the dowry of the Kingdom of Serbia in 1919? What about those reserves, where they were spent, to whom they were given, how you turned the secession into a succession, how you kept borrowing Serbia faster and more than dictator Broz did. We thought he was the worst in the matter of responsibilities. We see that the late prime minister's government was worse, and that this government is not lagging much behind, because it only needs to finish the previous government's work and I think that when you vote these guarantees, the president of the Republic of Serbia should give an apology to the citizens of Serbia, because they chose him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17406	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 23rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANJO CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE SERBIA OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINANCIAL PASSES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (SERBIA) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Paja Momčov, Petar Jojić and Aleksandar Djordjevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed a strange relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, and I would say to the citizens of Serbia. The government acts as if we are all ignorant here, insulting the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia, which we are discussing here, and which MPs will eventually adopt. What is foreseen by Article 1 of the Law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the reconstruction of roads in the Republic of Serbia? It is predicted that the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle Serbia-Montenegro's commitments as a counterguarantee on the loan of the European Investment Bank, amounting to 95m euros, on the basis of a financial agreement between the SRJ and the European Investment Bank, concluded in Belgrade on 16 July 2002, to finance the restoration of roads in the Republic of Serbia. It is only clear here that it is another 95m-euro debt, and it is clear that the contract was concluded on 16 July 2002. This is another piece of evidence that the current government is regularly following the previous two governments, Zivkovic and Djindjic, and this follows them in a way that tries through the National Assembly, or through the majority in the National Assembly, to settle the debts of these governments. These are the funds that have been credited, which have been spent in quite some way long ago, although here, in the reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, the reasons arise from the fact that the condition for the withdrawal of funds under this loan to the European Investment Bank amounting to 95m euros is to issue a counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in order for the Republic Roads Directorate as a beneficiary of loans to start using funds on this loan as soon as possible. We believe in the SRS and we are convinced that these funds have been spent recently, even at a time when they were working and performing some work on the roads across Belgrade and Serbia. We also believe that part of these funds was shared by the current Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic in an election campaign for local elections in municipalities where his party was in power and there was a bit of a delay there in order to do something better in the local elections. Of course, the National Assembly has no idea. Instead of explaining such serious things to Velja Ilic or explaining how she's issuing concessions on already built roads, he entertains the nation by explaining how he must have been drunk in some stream, so some woman pulled him out of the water and saved his life, so instead of serious things that we do, that the government is dealing with, that we have government representatives here who will answer questions like this, we here have dry proposals with an even more subtle explanation that really doesn't mean anything. Which means that the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the provision of Article 4(1). The debt law, which is prescribed that in order to settle commitments under the financial agreement between the SRJ and the European Investment Bank for a 95m-euro loan, to finance the restoration of roads in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia will give the SRJ counter-guarantee to provide funds for the reconciliation of commitments, etc. So, we have no valid reason, no concrete and real explanation and an explanation of the Serbian government why we have to give counter-guarantee, why we have to do this by emergency procedure, where the funds are being said, 95m euros are huge funds, and the National Assembly can't just play the voting machine and vote to be in charge of so much more funds. We need to know what really happened with those funds, under which conditions that loan was taken, who already spent those funds, and they were spent and you know it well. Here is an interesting explanation, in this part of which the analysis of the effects of the law is discussed, says -- at the same time, the solutions provided for in the proposal for this law also have an effect on the protection of the European Investment Bank, as a lender, since the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of the bill, assumes an obligation to meet Serbia-Montenegro's 95m-euro commitments, on the basis of a financial contract. So the point is, you want to protect the European Bank. What happened to these funds, who spent them, who took them, what will Serbian citizens, how will they repay these funds, from what will they pay back? Do any of you wonder how citizens live? Do you know what real salaries are, what real pensions are, how many real employees are in Serbia? Do you know how much raspberries are really paid this year? Do you have any idea how to live in the Republic of Serbia? Ask the citizens, don't sit here anyway, come out, take a walk, ask the people how they live, ask the people if you have the support of that people to vote for another 95m-euro loan spent at the time of the construction of the roads at the time of Zoran Djindjic, later Zoran Zivkovic, and today Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17408	Anyone else want a word? (No) At the same time, I would like to inform you that today we will extend a little after 18.00 hours, until the hearing is concluded in the details of the item on the agenda, as referred to in Article 85(5). Rules of Procedure. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17409	At first glance, it seems that all these laws are similar and then the question arises, why did Serbia not, through the SRJ, task itself with the total amount needed and to end it. You see, in this is the meaning of this operation of the uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. We just had a agenda point where this was all the same, counter-guarantee, etc., but the supplement was, he said, for an emergency traffic recovery project, and this agenda point and all that goes counter-guarantee, but it is now said, for the road restoration project in the Republic of Serbia. Now logically think about it. If this is an emergency recovery, it had to have some priority, so if the contract was concluded in early 2002, probably also a counter-guarantee, and it all had to end during that year, because it was necessary to settle the roads. This project of road restoration in the Republic of Serbia could have come, for example, later, so here we are today. We have a agenda and an emergency recovery and a renovation. I now conclude that an emergency recovery is filling holes, and the restoration is a half-metre extension, no, the holes have been rescheduled by an emergency recovery, and the emergency recovery is filling holes, and the restoration is to expand the path by half a meter or 20 centimeters. You see how this seems a little senseless and quite ridiculous, and essentially tragically, as if one obviously failed operation is covered up by tampering with some different laws, and also by the counterguarantees that the Republic of Serbia gives by reason of the SRJ, and by the text of the law to the state community. Let's just go back to what's a road renewal, and that's something capital, and this emergency intervention isn't capital, it's some kind of ongoing operation. This renovation, it's something capital. Article 2 provides for the obligations of the Republic of Serbia and states, among other things, that counter-guarantee is given to Serbia-Montenegro on behalf of obligations under the law, of course on debt, and the law was the form in which an agreement was ratified. And it says further, up to 95m euros in financing a road reconstruction project in the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the confirmation of a financial contract between the SRJ and the European Investment Bank for a 95m-euro loan to finance road reconstruction in the Republic of Serbia. The "Official Journal of the SRJ" is listed here, number 42/02, and here is a special list, International Contracts 9/02, and probably terms fit and it's not some big problem. As you can see, 95 million is the responsibility of the Republic based on counterguarantee. What it takes for $95 million to rebuild. It is now very important, the reasoning states that it will be about 864km of primary, transit routes and highways in Serbia and will have a positive effect in terms of hiring a larger number of business entities. So the plague is guaranteed. It's a business subject who's engaged in these things. We do not know whether these funds have already been used, so counterguarantee comes post-festum, or whether counter-guarantee is the essential condition to start realisation, and which perhaps in some account and there are such funds does not mean that payment is granted, if the condition is to deliver this paper in the form of this law. It's a long way from the public, that's what you have to say. So, 95 million and we just had those 50 million, and the 50 million was a little bit small for the airport, and that's probably already been spent, by some logic of things, it's about 120 to 150 million euros for reconstruction. That would be a common name for one and another loan. It would be the resolution of existing roads in the Republic of Serbia. There's probably something going on with those funds, this on the Belgrade-Nish highway. What we had a few months ago to hear, one commendation, that in the Valjev area everything was arranged with roads and some other regions, it's probably from these funds. The question is, why are we giving that counter-guarantee now? And if something fast, quick, shows also chapter one, chapter one of the arguments; says the constitutional basis for law-making, all laws require constitutional basis, is found here in Article 72, paragraph 2. One and four. The constitution, which is one broad formulation and can be used. Then it goes on and it is said, the basis for this law is in Article 4(1). Law on SRJ's debt to the European Investment Bank for Road Recovery Project in the Republic of Serbia, "Official Journal of the SRJ" 42/02. That's what someone double-crossed Mladjan Dinkic again. Between the federal state and the Republic, or to be more precise, according to this new terminology between the state union, as some informal union or some informal association, and the Republics are Member States, the relationship is not based on the constitutional principle that under federal law some legal basis is being obtained to regulate something. On a completely reverse system, which is a shared jurisdiction, exactly what the federal state is responsible for, it is clear exactly what the members of the Republic are responsible for. The law of the federal state can no longer be the basis for a republican regulation. There were only 10 points in that SRJ where there was a division of jurisdiction between the SRJ and the Republic. These are exactly the areas prescribed by the Constitution of the SRJ, where the SRJ regulates the basics, so said PIO, basic working relations, bond relations were at federal level, etc. That system was abandoned, abandoned the moment the Constitutional Charter was adopted. So the regulation, or law adopted in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, can no longer be the basis for a regulation in the Republic of Serbia, especially in the National Assembly. If you go on, and you analyze it from every word to every word, so let's continue to analyze it, then we see that someone forced the National Assembly to sit here, although there's no fog, but that the climate is foggy, to talk about something, and you see for yourself, none of the promoters came to defend their laws. None of the representatives of the majority in the National Assembly supporting the government go out to defend the law. Isn't that symptomatic, doesn't that suggest that this is all over, that there's probably a lot that's been spent depending on when a tranche is released? Little by little, you have a chance to hear, we've been granted some sort of loan, some kind of praise, and you see yourself these days, it's become the essence of information in this area. I would remind you, whenever Dinkic's laws are on the agenda, while the National Assembly is considering these proposals, it promotes another topic that is much more relevant that day. Now because of these mixed cards and the date on which some dates have been marked, this activity is missing, and you see, as soon as it starts to discuss how this government owes us, how much it owes us, what it owes us, what it owes us, why counterguarantee is given, who is looking for counterguarantee, who is using loan funds, how the loan funds are used, how the loan will be returned, you come across questions without answering. You'd have to imagine most of these facts, because no one's challenging this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17410	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17411	Ladies and gentlemen, at this session, we have 10 agenda points dedicated to counterguarantee. So it's about 10 loans, 10 loans whose total value, if I understand my predecessors well, is over 800m euros. This is only part of the loans that these and previous governments have taken over the last four and a half years. Since 2001, when the DOS came to power, we had here a dozen such proposals, probably about 50 counter-guarantees, which the Republic of Serbia was supposed to give to Serbia-Montenegro or later on for various loans. I'm going to take a very short look at the previous points, where we're talking about the counter-borders of the EPS. I must say that a few months ago, when we talked about the energy development strategy in the Republic of Serbia, we talked here about the problems in the sector, we talked about the need to do something in the energy sector, so that the EPS, as the largest public company, would be able to function normally without constantly asking for an increase in electricity price, to replace the loss that the EPS has through the electricity price. That's when I said that at that point, and now it's probably even more, the EPS asks consumers about 36 billion dinars or, to translate to what's more acceptable to you, it's about half a billion euros. Instead of tightening that financial discipline, to raise those funds from consumers, EPSID aims to increase electricity prices to replace these losses. I must say that long ago the price of electricity in Serbia exceeded those five American cents, which were some mental directory of the EPS leadership in some previous period. It is the European price of electricity and has long been reached and overcome in Serbia. But let's get back to this law. So it is a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance and rebuild roads in the Republic of Serbia. It is a 95m-euro loan, agreed three years ago -- July 16th 2002. The funds were then requested to restore the road network in Serbia. The funds are intended, as it stands in this proposal, for the renewal of the so-called primary transit routes and highways. According to the explanation that stands here, it's about a recovery of 864 kilometers. This means that someone accurately calculated and predicted what to do and based on this calculation determined the amount of funds needed. What is unclear from the legal text is whether these funds have already been used, already used, or not. The argument concludes that they were not used. The reason for this emergency procedure is, when it comes to the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, the reason for the adoption of this law stems from the fact that the conditions for withdrawal of funds under this loan to the European Investment Bank amounting to 75m euros and the issuance of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, so that the Republic Road Directorate, as a beneficiary of the loan, is rapidly using funds under this loan. This means that these funds have not been used, although there is doubt that these funds have long been used. I wish there was a proposing representative here, and I wish he could explain to us what this is about, whether the funds were used or not. If so, it should have been said that they were used for these and those purposes, you and those paths were restored, these directions, etc. This is how we keep all this unclear. If we look at this mileage, 864 kilometers of highways and so on. Serbia's primary transit routes to rebuild with these funds, then we would have a fully built Belgrade-Sabotica highway, we would have a fully restored Ibar highway and probably some other routes. If you look at what's been done on those roads so far, you can see that the Ibar highway is in pretty bad shape, not to say catastrophic. So, something has been done to the Mines, and from Mine to Milanovac, the situation is catastrophic. It's a bad situation, too, from Chuck. This means that nothing is concrete or much done on that roadway. With the Belgrade-Nish highway, the situation is similar. And he's in pretty bad shape. We here have three legislative proposals for counter-guarantees relating to the roads in Serbia. The three proposals we are considering today draws more than 250m euros for the travel network in Serbia, and we adopted the Belgrade-Pozega highway concession law about a month ago here. Something is not clear at least for me here, and probably for most MPs, and it's about big funds. These 250 million are nearly half of those funds provided for concessions to build a completely new Belgrade-Pozega highway and to build a tape of the Sudotica-Novi Sad road. It's a big asset, and we don't know where it's spent and how. If we've already given us concessions, what do we need these funds for now, if they're not already withdrawn? What about your own income from the Republic Road Directorate? Where's your toll collection income? That toll was collected multiple days ago. Now we have a "European level" of those prices. It is announced that the prices will be even higher next year. What about the funds allocated from the budget, i.e. from the price of derivatives, the energy we use in Serbia? These funds are intended for the reconstruction and construction of road infrastructure. What's with the funds? There are a lot of vague questions here. For these reasons, we have submitted such amendments, not to accept this, or at least to explain to us in detail whether the funds were spent, for which they were spent, which the routes were restored, how much it cost. Or, if they're not spent -- we want to restore these and those routes and it costs so much, but not only today we have three laws that we're pulling 250 million, we have concessions that we've given for some of the directions that are mentioned here, which doesn't make any sense. For these reasons, I repeat again, we have submitted amendments to delete all of this, that is, not to be adopted in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17412	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17413	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now having a truly absurd debate that slowly grows into grotesque. We don't have a proposing here to explain the proposals for this legislative change, we don't even have auxiliary technical staff who would listen to MPs, who would at least register what we're talking about here in front of the government. The interpretation of the legislative proposal that we have before us is extremely inadequate, I could even say, in some way, this reasoning offends the dignity of this Parliament and this assembly because of a number of logical mistakes that are in this very short and small document. I'll try to point them out briefly. You see, we're talking here, this is actually a story for our citizens, that now we, this assembly, this assembly council, need to pass a law that will give counterguarantee to something signed with the International Investment Bank, on 16 July 2002. Now someone's gonna wonder how we're going to sign at this point and why we're going to sign at this point in time like this? The commitments are to guarantee the return of a 95m-euro loan, concluded by the SRJ with the European Investment Bank. Who put us in charge? The government of Zoran Djindjic was in charge, and in fact the main role was played by Mr Djelic. Now, we probably estimate that, the contract is signed, because there's no explanation here what's happened to these funds so far, we assume that the funds have arrived, that they've been spent, and that the time has come to pay them off without guarantees being given. Maybe what I'm saying isn't true. Maybe it's something else. But from the proposed explanation, you can't see if what I'm saying isn't true. In fact, if a man looks at the explanation given to us, he writes: "In a broader sense, the effect of this bill stems from the fact that the conditions for withdrawing funds under this loan to the European Investment Bank (what is the condition) are to issue counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, in order for the Republic of Montenegro to start using funds. "So, if we listen to this carefully, the funds are not drawn. That's what it says here. Is that true? Since there is no explanation, then man has to go online to look for documentation, we live in the 20th century, we're going to Europe, we want democracy, and one of the essential conditions is transparency, as you kept saying. Let's see what can now be seen, on the European Agency for Reconstruction sites, which tells us that it has defined for us -- to help Serbia, about a billion euros for the period from 2000 to now. Nicely, if you go to their site, then for the year 2002, which we are talking about, you can see that finally 15 March has been approved in the institutions of the European Union a programme of assistance, and it is given in two strategic documents of the European Commission, a document on the state strategy of the SRJ and a multi-annual indicative plan of 2002. This programme gives us 179m euros to spend on priorities: the construction of state administration and system of institutions, economic reform, reconstruction of economic recovery, social development and civil society, of course, NGOs and independent media have also got a nice cookie. It is now said, for the first time: "The agency will provide assistance in Serbia's public transport sector. A large part of the budget, 41m euros will be invested on the main project -- the reconstruction of the "Freedom" Bridge over the Danube near Novi Sad. Can't see if it's a grant grant, whether it's borrowing from the European Investment Bank or the Development and Reconstruction Bank. You can find something like this on that site at the European Agency for Reconstruction. For a man not to be lazy, we know that there is also a website of the Ministry of Capital Investment and that there is a section there that talks about traffic. You can see well, so, not a word, not a word from the European Development Agency has anything to do with these funds, for this purpose. Maybe it's hidden somewhere, so I can't find it, maybe it's not for looking, maybe it's not for transparency, so it can't be found. When you go to our Ministry of Transport's website, then you find one item, which says, "The rehabilitation of the roads in Serbia". It says – that the funds are defined and, see, the European Investment Bank, then the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in its explanation says - 650 to 700km rehabilitation of roads will be done. In this explanation here, he says that, thanks to these 95m euros, 860km of roads will be rehabilitated. It's 150 kilometers, let's ask ourselves, that would ask for an answer again. The most interesting thing here is that according to the LOTs, and the LOTs are 12, you can see where the money is defined from our budget for these purposes, based on this loan, you see that the total amount is 5.452 million. That's the data. A little bill, always resents me, when someone comes to correct me, but I still do a good calculation, it's, God forbid, 60 million euros and something million euros. Even another nice piece of information is to see from this website - what's unarranged. It is unagreed -- the European Bank and the Investment Bank -- 500 million dinars, I speak in dinars, and the rest of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 150 million. So 600 million dinars are undetermined. When a man sees all this, this is, at the very least, scandalous. This is how you give information on a state official website, and the opposite data is given to us by the MPs in one general, hermetical, unclear form, I don't think it's right. Personally, I expect the President of the Assembly himself to protect our MPs from the truths surrounding these official sites, both the European Agency for Reconstruction and our ministry, and then the proposer who gives us such proposals. Because of this, we Serbian radicals and said this should all be deleted. I also advocate that article 5 be deleted, just like everyone else in this law. I think I've given enough arguments for what. Smart enough. If the opposite happens, which is quite possible, that you're going to vote for something like this, then it's clear evidence that a direct bypass is being made between malversions or suspicious actions, since there's no opposite here to convince us, so there's a suspicion that suspicious actions have been done with previously concluded contracts and loans between the previous government and this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17414	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. I will listen to you and I will send a letter to the ministry with a warrant that wherever the sums in the dinars are expressed, and they refer to the previous years, because you have given examples where it is not clear at all where and what it applies, that a course must also be indicated, in order to have clear information on what amount of money it is. Otherwise we'd have a sense of more than contradictory data, and of course, then any doubt is allowed, you're absolutely right, because then a man can't manage in any way. Thank you so much for this. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just an example of this bill is the essence of the entire bill, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has just continued, the government of the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, above all, that practice and continuity of the previous two governments, above all I mean the government of the DS Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. On the basis of Article 6. The proposal for this law can be seen in the nature of this proposal for a counterguarantee law, etc. The SRS has a clear view of this and this bill. Article 6 needs to be deleted. We believe that, above all, in this explanation of the bill on the granting of counterguarantee and in the reasons for the law, as well as in this analysis of the effects of the law, an explanation which has no basis, in one serious state, society, and above all, should exist, if we are a transit country. First of all, we had to make sure that we had a clear national strategy in rebuilding and developing the highways. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also shown in this case that it did not have any clear programme when it comes to the area, and it is important primarily because of the public works, the government's duties. Of course, it can be said in all of this, when we talk about public roads, about the restoration of roads, about the master's roads, that the government didn't have any program, and also no national strategy. With all that in mind, you can't defend a proposal like this and all these suggestions that you're making, as it will be for the next point, which is about making a counterguarantee. Everything is connected to each other and it is about 255m euros in debts to be given by the government of the Republic of Serbia to counter-guarantee. Here in this Article 6, it is mentioned in the first point that the loan appropriations will be provided by the borrower. The loan user is, above all, in this case, the Republic Road Directorate and then in case it is unable to do so, then it will be rejected in a way that is foreseen on the basis of those items provided for in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bill, which says the financial agreement was signed on 16 July 2002, was fully committed by the government. Of course, it is not clear in this proposal whether or not this money has been spent, and what we know is that there has been the physibilities of the study, both for the restoration of the roads in Serbia and for the restoration of the railway infrastructure, one of the physibilities of the European Union's studies. When we said here about this speaker, the minister who is not here, there is not one minister and representative of the government, and above all I mean the Minister of Capital Investment, Mr Ilic, that this government has no programme and no national strategy in terms of roads, and also the railway infrastructure, he just laughed at it. He wasn't talking about some demagogy, etc. Here, for this reason, the law is talked about 864 kilometers of primary transit routes and highways. When we talk about this and this Article 6 shows the nature of this proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the restoration of roads in the Republic of Serbia. The previous DS government, as I said at the beginning of the talks on the matter, did nothing and that is what shows the nature of the government, which has led to a fall, and Serbian citizens voted for something else altogether. But which would continue the way and continuity of the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zorana Zivkovic, which is the government of Vojislav Kostunica and DSS, with its coalition partners, suggests that the same thing the previous government did. So, the citizens of Serbia live badly today. Our goal is for the citizens of Serbia to live better. You've had your chance, you've had your chance on the case of these laws you've passed in this National Assembly, so your MP majority doesn't participate very much in the work of that National Assembly. This can be demonstrated in the case of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly that you have brought to the previous session, where you have made it possible for practically in this room not to be any MP of the ruling coalition, this also speaks very much about the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, DSS, G17 plus, the SPO and all other parties who support this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17416	The Rules of Procedure refer to all MPs. Please, MP Dusan Prorokovic, replica, mentioning the DSS, deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17417	Whether the government is continuity or discontinuity, they show results and will show yet. Everything in Serbia and politics is comparable, but the health god can compare it today, you will be able to see what is and how much has been done in Serbia before some of the next elections. But come out and tell me what it is for. When we spoke concessions, you were against concessions. Now that we're talking about counter-guarantee for lending infrastructure in Serbia, you're also against credit. What are you for? For work action? Don't say that. Serbian citizens will not get better until new jobs are opened. New jobs are being created by new investors, new investors are missing until new infrastructure is created. We need to be aware of where we are, what our budget is, what our state of state is, and see that we don't have enough resources to cover the construction of the infrastructure budget. We can only do this by concession policy or by taking credit. If you have objections to the very technology of performing works, tendering, etc., attack it. Me and the DSS have absolutely no problem with that. Let everyone in this country do their job, but don't attack the work methodology, because an alternative other than these two things doesn't exist, except for the work actions, and the work actions were 1951, we can't organize them in 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17418	You've been misread, Mr. Gjorgevic. On the basis of Article 101(1) and (3), I am giving you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prorokovic has just said what the essence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is and how the Government of the Republic of Serbia treats the citizens of Serbia. The bottom line is that you didn't have any national strategy when it came to the basic legal projects that the government was supposed to propose and when you formed them to bring and propose to the National Assembly. First of all, it's a strategy you didn't have, you didn't have a program. One of the ministers in your government, I won't name him, he told this speaker that they had virtually no problem. Whether he's from your political option or not, it doesn't matter, he's with you in the coalition. You carry the greatest responsibility, because you're the party that runs that government. Your party president is Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. So it's the DSS that's the most responsible for not living well. Don't talk here about work actions, it's about having to have clear legal proposals and that Serbian citizens expected you to make these proposals as soon as you took over to lead this country. If you're running a state, then you should have a certain responsibility for the citizens. Serbian citizens live badly. The point is, you're the most responsible. The most responsible is the DSS. That's the point. Your story about it, we from the SRS had a clear program when it came to roads and public works. You can go out for this pay phone and say everything you think, but your arguments don't stand, Serbian citizens live badly. The most responsible is the DSS, which had to change the policy led by the previous government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic and DS. With this, you showed that you were exactly the same as the previous DS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17420	Here you go, replica. This was according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. Here you go, Mr. Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17421	I don't like getting into replicas too much. I'm gonna try to make this my last call on this subject. It's just that most of what I understand and what you're saying doesn't stand. The government debt is a government debt. If the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, was in charge, however, the Republic of Serbia was in charge. I'll remind you, and when you were in power, that government was in charge of the People's Republic of China. What we have to say now, we don't care, it's another regime, some other government, we're not paying China back. We need state, responsible to behave, and as these money has been spent, whether there was crime, corruption, to investigate the prosecution, but the state has to take on the debt and to settle its obligations. As far as concessions and loans are concerned, it is perfectly normal that you can give concessions for profitable directions, and for non-profits, no one will want to be a concessionist. Then you have to take credits, and it's not just the state that's profitable, it's not the state's strategy to develop just corridor 10, what about the rest of Serbia? I said already, we don't have enough money in the budget, we have to take loans, these are counter-guarantees for the loans that were previously taken and the state would be as irresponsible as possible if the National Assembly hadn't adopted this, and I agree, we can talk about the political justification of taking those loans. One more thing, we have to follow the logic of foreign investors. We have countries in an environment that have much better infrastructure than Serbia. You know, one foreign investor doesn't care if they base their production in Osijek or Somboro. It doesn't matter to us and the Croats. I care about it being in Sombor, so we must also reach countries in the environment through our legislation and infrastructure development, and allow investment to create new jobs and make it easier to live in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17422	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Djordjevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The bill, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, to delete the member. Given exactly what I was saying when I was going out and for Article 6, this bill is the best proof of the continuity of the government of Vojislav Kostunica with the governments of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic DS. The essence of this bill and what the SRS will always represent is the interests of Serbian citizens. The interests of Serbian citizens are primarily that Serbian citizens have precise, clear laws and stories of some MPs of the ruling coalition who defend the draft laws that are not precise, which do not have a clear concept, only says that the government of Vojislav Kostunica and DSS, with its coalition partners, does not have a clear strategy as the country, or the state of Serbia, to bring about the economic crisis and the social misery that Serbian citizens are in today. So, another task signed by the previous government on July 16th 2002, which is about the restoration of roads, which is 864km in Serbia, both primary and others, we will have the opportunity to talk about the next proposal in the next item of the agenda, because in the same way the bill is passed, as Mr Krasic said about this speaker, in one way only to propose something to the National Assembly. It doesn't matter that there's no precision, which has been brought down, and it turns out that a clear government strategy should be such that Serbian citizens see that they live better, not just to tell an empty story when you go out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17424	Thank you, Mr. Djordjevic, this was a great explanation why a member who regulates when the law comes into force is deleted. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank the Ministry of Finance's representative who's been there the whole time. I'm taking a break until 3:30. [[After break – 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our afternoon work today's session. We move to the 24th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANJ CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROOM OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FUNDING OF THE PROJECTS OF THE EUROPEAN TRADES B - SERBIA AND BLACK GORO (single) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Petar Jojic, Veroljub Arsic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Bozidar Koprivica and Zlatan Jovanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that in the afternoon part of the debate on those other laws on the granting of counterguarantee, we have said quite enough about the enormous borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the community of Serbia-Montenegro, unnecessary borrowing, and that loans are taken without literally being taken into account, knowing that this government is Octobered, and that in the autumn, at the latest, there will be early parliamentary elections and thus the change of power. We had 15 days ago in this same room, the proposal for a concession law, tried to get Serbian citizens, not you from the ruling coalition, because you really don't need to be told, I'm sure you'll all vote that law, as you'll also vote this bill, all because of the citizens of Serbia, and then we said that the roads are being given under concession for 30 years, that 630m euros will be put in your pocket. Today comes the agenda of the European Investment Bank for the financing of European Roads projects, etc. The European roads are, above all, corridor 10, corridor towards Požega, which we have already discussed is being given in concession. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only from the toll collection, if the toll was introduced into normal flows, all roads could be built. I demand, as a national MP, to provide the National Assembly with as much information as in this year's unmatched vehicles on the Belgrade-Nish highway and on the highway Novi Sad-Belgrade, so that it can see how many vehicles have entered, and it has not come out, or it has not been paid. You'll get incredible figures. We MPs of the SRS have reached a piece of the figure, and soon after this speaker we will present to see how much has been stolen only from the toll of Belgrade-Nish or Horgos-Belgrade. Don't put the Republic of Serbia in debt no more. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where it is said -- the Republic of Serbia undertakes to settle Serbia-Montenegro's commitments as a counterguarantee under the loan of the European Investment Bank, amounting to 120m euros, on the basis of a financing agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the European Investment Bank. It is 120m euros planned for the construction of a bridge near Beška and for the construction of Belgrade highway - Novi Sad, i.e. Beška - Novi Sad. If we're already giving under the concession built highway, now are we going to give what we're going to borrow, the bridge and the highway from Beška to Novi Sad, under the concession of someone. However, Minister Vela Ilic said, he once ran out and said that approximately a concessionaire is known. You don't know. I want the citizens of Serbia to know who this concessionary is and I believe that this amendment and Article 1 of the law should be deleted in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17427	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic.. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17428	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that the Serbian radicals were right when they challenged the giving of concessions on certain shares adopted by your parliamentary majority a month ago in the National Assembly and this agenda, in fact this counter-guarantee to justify the funds received earlier to build, please imagine what it sounds like, the European roads of Serbia-Montenegro. I guess it's because this is the European Investment Bank for Road Finance, so it says the European way. If more separatist regimes from Montenegro see their European path from Belgrade to Novi Sad on this route, E-75, and you still need to convince me. I don't think there's really room for this kind of explanation. This is, above all, the peak of cynicism, and on the other hand, you are pushing yourself off with the argument that some of you made in giving a concession on Velimir Ilic's proposal, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also for a share to Horgos, but it refers to the entire route from Belgrade to Novi Sad. I am sorry that, at this time, my colleague Disic is not here, but some of you have looked at it with mistrust, and in particular Minister Ilic was inclined to do so, when a colleague spoke of the terrible state of the bridge on Beška, the cracks and the fact that nothing has been done so far to complete the recovery of the bridge. And the job that is related to this counterguarantee, the European way of crime, is closely related to Ljubisa Buhu Čumet, that is to his firm or his wife, however, "Difens Road", which was won under the patronage of the then Democratic Party, Zoran Zivkovic and Minister Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, this job in this amount of millions. We're going back to that story this morning. Well, maybe some of you may be uncomfortable about it, but it's not enough for you to just say it or that you can't look at us while we're saying that that money was spent in a criminal way. You simply stand up to it by not voting for it, because the approval of such funds is a post-festum legalization of crime. You know very well, and in the case of Belgrade Airport and in the case of this stock that was made, this route from Belgrade to Novi Sad, not that there was an abuse, but the robbery that was carried out by the then regime and left you with the legacy that you are now verifying it. If we go, that is, only Serbian radicals do it, both in this and in the assembly of the state community, to see how this leadership in Montenegro used that money, we will again come up with suspicious jobs, performers and subcontractors, and the quality of the asphalt that is being made. I told you this morning on the case of this stock to the Great Plane, and this part in front of it, which was done last year at the fire loop, that it's already in desperate shape. It's a stormy road, it's a little rainy, and I'm not talking about major weather accidents, and that's the state of the highway, and that's the same situation with what's been done to Novi Sad. We can't vote for this because it's really institutionalally speaking by the legislative authority, what you're going to do, legalizing a robbery that happened. This path that the authorities then chose, which you are now blindly following and which has been made, that pre-contract made during their rule, and then concluded a contract two months after Kostunica was elected prime minister, so on 17 May 2004, and you took over the commitments of the Republic of Serbia, and the way in which the loan will be used, is something that you need to closely follow, you who are MPs. And you support such a government, and the prime minister, and Velimir Ilic, who has concentrated four ministries, as if it were his grandfather, in his own hands and does whatever he wants. When he comes to the congregation and someone likes to put a finger in his eye, when we ask him where the money is spent and how the roads are paved, the answer is that he always comes out of the door and nothing further than that. Or in his style and manner, he blatantly qualified political inexperiences, and indeed the basic and key question arises: where are these money and how are they spent? In all these counter-guarantees until the end, when we talk about it, everything is as indigo written, and for one, and the other, and third and so on until the eighth, as many as there are, eight-nine, the Republic of Serbia assumes responsibility, i.e. guarantees for this money which will be spent by borrowers, and we, as MPs, do not know in which way. Or in one part they've already done so, as is the case with those counterguarantees signed since 2001, upon the arrival of the dosmanium to power. We have to resist this decisively, because the study done by experts from the Republic Road Directorate has clearly and unequivocally proved to be a regular use of toll money, which you have increased so much in the meantime that it is at least doubled for a passenger vehicle from Belgrade to Novi Sad, which is now 180 dinars, and I told you that Nis is almost 1,000 dinars, up to Batocina almost 500 dinars. So, out of that money, rationally used, if it were to be a responsible government, as it would be radical, which can direct that money where it is most needed, it would be more invested and more funds would be raised than from all concessions, I don't have that data here right now, we gave you for that Poslovka example, and for this to Horgos, than the total amount of concessions and these loans you took. You were counting on it then, and I mean all of you, because that kind of policy is the same as Djelic's and she's the whole click of string around it, giving us both a hand and a hat, and that seems to you, let's take it. How will these funds be spent, who will return them, and in what way, you do not care. These are expensive loans, expensive loans, which are not in a proper and rational way invested in our country's travel structure. These pompous sentences and these names, please, the European path of Serbia-Montenegro, as if we are not so many centuries in Europe, mean nothing, because they are ordinary political pamphlets, and money is big, and it is used by people who can't honestly, as good hosts do, to have that money. We trust them nothing, or you who support those who deal with public finances and whose hands this money comes into. That's why we're not voting for this one or any of the next counter-guarantees that are on the agenda in this set.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17429	I thank Miss Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17430	Following the proposal for a counter-guarantee law concerning the urgent settlement of streets and roads, followed by the second law concerning road reconstruction projects in the Republic of Serbia, it is the first 50m euros, and includes the JAT and the Republic Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia, the project covers the 95m Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia, the third draft of the law, also the law on the granting of a counter-guarantee of the European Roads Project B-Serbia-Montenegro, and the amount of 120m euros. In the previous two laws, the loan user was the Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia and Belgrade Airport, which is the company run by Belgrade Airport. Unlike these previous two draft laws, this law regulates the beneficiary of the loan, which is the regulation of Article 3 of the Law, the first beneficiary of the loan referred to in Article 1 of this Law is the Republic of Serbia, the contractor of the works is the Republic Roads Directorate. Now look at the nonsense of Mladjan Dinkic - the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee to Serbia-Montenegro according to the agreement and by the law on debt, and where the user is Republika Srpska. So, it's not a public enterprise, it's not a local self-government, it's not an autonomous province, it's a republic in debt through Serbia-Montenegro and it gives itself counter-guarantee. I think something like this is impossible, because the borrower is the Republic of Serbia, and whoever gives counter-guarantee should vouch for the loan user, and how he will be a subsidiary debtor when he is also a primary debtor. You're writing a whole new theory, writing nebulous regulations. There's no such thing as Roman law. Here, ask the lawyers here if any of them saw this. How can a debtor give counterguarantee to himself? I guess the guarantee and counterguarantee is given by a third party, a third party who guarantees his property that the debtor will fulfil his obligation. No, you have a debtor and a bailiff. Something like that can only be created in these thoughts, where people need to be in debt at all costs and then not choose the means, but try every way possible, all the paper suffers and it can end the way someone planned it. Now I must remind you of the agenda on Friday, when the Law on Public Debt was your proposal, Article 25: "The Republic gives counter-guarantee to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, under conditions and in the manner laid down by the law governing the granting of counterguarantee. The regreement of Article 22 of this law, which the Republic has according to the debtor, also has according to the credit user for which it gave counter-guarantee to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro." In Article 3, you say the credit user is the Republic of Serbia and the counterguarantee provider of the Republic of Serbia. How is she going to regress her right from Article 22? A public debt law to make it happen? Are you in the finance ministry talking from sector to sector? I get the impression you're not communicating. Who's writing this to you? At the same session, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we have 20 points of the agenda. You could hear from this pay phone that at least seven laws don't communicate, they're in collegiate, they don't match any terms or principles, nothing matches. But when you hit the road with TV, the experts ran out. In what country can this happen? Tell me, according to the rules of banking, which bank is applying this? If a bank is asked for a guarantee of what she's in charge of, she's looking for a correspondence bank that will vouch for her obligations. Not here. That's what you wrote. There's nothing to interpret. It is written in Article 3: "The beneficiary of the loan from Article 1 of this law is the Republic of Serbia. The contractor is the Republic Road Directorate." What does a contractor have to do with counterguarantee? Or maybe after this confusion: 1) we fill the holes, 2) we spread the streets, 3) because the largest amount is, let's make up something else now. It can't go through. The MPs of the SRS must point to this illogicality, and for many reasons we say that we suspect that something is hiding behind these things, and that the MPs cannot support it, because you admit everything because there is no hiding with you. You invented a brand-new institute. It's legal-technical and legal-logically impossible. You put it in this bill because you think everything can go with a 131 card. It will pass with 131 cards all but will remain a painful task for the Republic of Serbia. Probably, since there is no possibility of going back to those deadlines as the debt law provides for and the law on the ratification of the debt contract provides, then we are once again entering a vicious cycle of debt reprogramming, by slowing down the principal, in some deadlines we attach interest to the principal, and interest on interest. According to the state of our finances, according to our country's economic flows, a very skilled mathematician is the one who knows the interest account, who can tell you how much this debt will grow in a few years and what obligation it will be to be to the Republic of Serbia. Why the obligation of the Republic of Serbia? Because even without this law, it is possible to realize this contract and to achieve these amounts. Basically, we need to change the way we communicate when it comes to foreign borrowing. We need to discuss here a draft of such an agreement, so if we agree on a draft agreement, you go ahead, and not like this - you conclude, so put us before the final act. And these majority people, who might not vote when they see what the background is, are practically forced to vote yes, because the contract is closed and the job is already done. Now, we need to change the logic of negotiating with abroad. So, the duty negotiation platform, please, in the Assembly. If that platform passes in the Assembly, then close the agreements, suggest after ratification. This way, if you put us before the final act, the National Assembly should not allow it. In that sense, I propose to the President of the National Assembly that, in communication with the presidents of the parliamentary groups and the Government, open this topic in principle, that the National Assembly does not come into the situation that it is a final act, that the majority must vote, although they do not want to vote, because someone has already concluded, so if it were a post-festum challenge to the agreement, then it would be an additional disgrace to the state. So that the government commits itself to present the draft agreement, the negotiation platform to the National Assembly, even though it gets most of it here, let it go with the negotiations. If you don't get most, there's no closing of the contract. Please include this initiative officially in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17431	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept it. Is anyone answering for a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17432	When I spoke about the first counter-guarantee law this morning, I asked my fellow MPs not to try to present the SRS MPs as MPs and the anti-development parliamentary group, against road construction, against the reconstruction of the electricity system, etc. Of course, we're not against it all, but we are against the mugging and the planting of a proposal to the National Assembly by the Republic Government. So, despite that warning, at the end of the afternoon, it was heard that we had no idea what we would do and how we would solve these problems. Of course taking advantage of credit for real jobs is something that is acceptable. Concessions are also acceptable, but concessions and loans at the same time, for the same job, it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that we, as a congregation, approve of being a beneficiary of a concession for some loan that the government, I guess, took on his behalf. So at least, by interpreting this bill, it turns out. We are opposed to dating and muttering, and therefore we are asking, as counterpart Paja Momcilov already said in one part today, that a representative of the government explain to this parliament and the public of Serbia, whether, as the government says, the rehabilitation of the roads from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Development took a total of 5.452 million dinars of credit, which is translated into euro, 68m euros. We were just talking about the law that you're about to adopt, for the same jobs, predicts a 95m-euro loan, so we expect someone to explain to us where the 27m-euro gaps are lost. For these and such reasons, we have worked Serbianly against these government proposals and for these and such reasons we are trying to convince you, colleagues, not to vote for something that you will have to regret one day, and to inform the public of Serbia how much all this money in the name of the debt is taken by the Republic government. It's in addition to the fact that it doesn't need to collect toll, fuel, electricity. Because if you take money on behalf of all of this from the European Bank, if you're in debt, only the Government knows under what conditions, then there's no need for you, on the other hand, to go into the public's pocket in another way, because what you're in charge of, what's in charge of the government, it's coming back to the citizens of Serbia. So, in addition, we still have the purchases and everything in the areas for which we give counter-guarantees for already taken and spent loans. The amendment to Article 4, submitted by counterpart Petar Jojic, suggests that this member be deleted. This is, of course, the principled position of the SRS under this law on granting Serbia-Montenegro counterguarantee under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the B-Serbia-Montenegro project. This Article 4 says the loan funds are withdrawn at the request of the contractor represented by the borrower through the finance ministry, etc. So someone should tell us, first of all, to explain to you who you're going to vote for -- who they are and who the contractor is, to answer the question, are they the beneficiaries of the concession? Do we vote in this way, or you who will vote, that 120m euros should be taken on behalf of the loan guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, which will be used by concession users. Because if a share of the road, building a road to a concession, which is certainly a good road and a good way, then it is logical to expect a new capital to be created from concessions, not to spend the non-existent assets of the Republic of Serbia; the absence, because they have to be taken through credit. It remains unclear who pays, what is the interest paid on this loan and who pays it? Is the salary a contractor or the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? A lot of things are unclear in this bill, too, and a lot of things are stuck and blurred that, eventually, it wouldn't have been noticed what the point is. I suppose, when the government gave such bill proposals, with such unmistakable arguments, it was not expected that MPs would pay so much attention to these laws. It was probably thought that it would be understood as one group, a package, as Dinkic, the law, which has a similar title, will then not pay enough attention to each of these draft laws individually. You see, we Serbian radicals each of these draft laws have been studied in detail and each of us gives you observations. Every law has a different group of objections. The bottom line is that these laws cannot be passed and we recommend to you, who are planning to vote for this, not to vote for such laws, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to protect the government in a work where the government has already done some jobs without asking the question of the Serbian Parliament. First they have to ask, and then they have to do something, if they get a positive signal from this parliament. Therefore, both Article 4 and the other members of this bill, according to the position of the SRS parliamentary group, should be deleted, i.e. that this law is not voted on in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17433	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the continuity of government and DOS and this new government of the new DOS is being seen again. So we give counterguarantees, the user is the Republic of Serbia, the contractor is the Republic Road Directorate; the value of the debt - 120m euros. Perhaps this would not be strange if those 120m euros were not spent on works in the Republic of Serbia on the road route E-75 Belgrade-Novi Sad. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to provide each year, on the basis of a financing contract, which has been ratified by the Law on the ratification of the financing contract, etc. and says: the funds will be used to restore the existing August tapes and existing bridge over the Danube at Beška and build the second August tape and second bridge at Beška, which should be implemented by the Republic Roads Directorate. I ask the MPs who will vote in favour of the bill, didn't you vote in favour of the concession a month ago to take that road route to the concession, that particular one? None other than just part of the Belgrade-Novi Sad road. It was in some package. Three shares were at stake. One of the three shares is this part of the road, although we warned from this pay phone that it was a clean robbery, that it was a clean scam for the citizens of Serbia, that the loan was taken, that the Republic of Serbia was returning it, that the works had moved away, that the land on which the second August tape would already be bought, that certain groundwork had already been done, that all this was in the finale, we were asking why we were going to give someone a highway in the concession? Then we showed you the charts that the Republic Road Directorate was doing. So, the Republic organ, we didn't write them, we didn't invent them, because the share is said to provide a clean net income to the Republic Directorate, which runs that route, 20m euros a year. So the value of the loan alone will pay off in five years. You put it in a concession. Who's going to return the concession now? Who's going to repay the loan now? Does the Republic Directorate, does the beneficiary of the concession, do the Republic of Serbia? When I say - the Republic Directorate and the Republic of Serbia, I see no difference, because it is the founder and owner of the Republic of Serbia's Road Directorate. If she pays it out of her original income, then we're going to have to make up for some other investments that the Republic Road Directorate will have, if there are any investments in this country at all. You spoke, and the Minister of Capital Investment, that concessions are good. I agree that concessions can be good, but in this case only for the beneficiary of concessions. For the Republic of Serbia and its citizens - no. Because the concession has some purpose, some purpose, if the beneficiary of the concession brings his capital to the state, with his money or loans that he will raise, builds a road infrastructure. I don't mind exploiting what he's made, but we've made Mr. concession user everything, both highways and bridges. If we're not, we're in charge of it. They'll make someone, because that debt has to be realized somewhere. We said -- well, now that we've done everything to you, now you be smart, so make some money. It doesn't take much to be smart. The question should be asked why this share had to go to concessions, why we gave up those 20m euros per year that route brings to the Republic of Serbia. So when I mentioned here from this pay phone and asked myself how much of the commission to give those concessions, someone jumped. I'm sorry, please, now that I see this counter-guarantee bill, then I can see that I was right to ask what the Minister's commission or anyone else who took part in this or did it together. Either way. So, just one thing, we need an authorised representative here to explain to us who will repay this loan, because in the light of the concession proposal, it said that what the Republic of Serbia has returned so far, it no longer counts, and the rest of the debt will be returned to the beneficiary of the concession. Then what do we give counterguarantee? Who are we giving counterguarantee to? What if the beneficiary doesn't return the concession? Then they'll need the Republic Directorate. If she does not return, then she will have to return it from the Republika Srpska budget. Why are we discussing this now? That highway isn't ours anymore. You gave it to someone. Who did you give it to? We'll see about that. There's already been a story for those earlier counterguarantees. It seems to me that the money for concessions will come from these earlier counter-guarantees, from September, December 2001 and April 2002, when Differents took the Belgrade-Nish highway and made it easier for the budget, that is to say, in debt to the citizens of Serbia for about a few hundred, if not all 300m euros. It seems that the money will pay the concession, but the money will have to be returned again by the citizens of Serbia. And these 120 million will have to return Serbian citizens again. Do not go out for this pay phone and accuse the SRS of being against the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. We're against the way you do it. You owe the Republic, you owe the citizens, and then you give the job to someone else who's just going to write down the lines of how many hundreds of millions of euros they're going to make. The concessions you've given someone will provide a billion-euro profit for the next 20 years. It's the result of your authority, and it's against the SRS, not against the infrastructure, but the way we get to it, who exploits it, who pays.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17435	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenković submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that Mr. Ilic as a directly interested minister for the adoption of this law is not there. He's probably somewhere next to Ibra, waiting for some lady to break into Ibar, so he can take her out, do a pious act, but I think the finance minister had to be here to clear these up for us. He had to defend this bill. It is not correct by the Ministry of Finance to go through these laws like this and with all the respect of the lady who is from the Ministry of Finance, but for these laws, for the laws relating to the duties of the Republic of Serbia, it is normal to expect the Minister of Finance to sit here unless she's composing a song, so now she can't. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just talking about this 120m-euro loan. National MP Arsic has very studioly explained why he does not need it. The SRS expert team from the area of construction, in the area of travel, made it clear that it had given the MPs, and we made it clear how much the funds would be poured out at the then toll price, without this double price increase, in the concessionaire pocket. And how much money will go off now, yesterday I traveled this route to Belgrade-Novi Sad, 170 dinars per passenger vehicle, and I waited 10 minutes at three open ramps. Foreigners pay 10 euros. See how much money the concessionaire will take the next day when we make him this part of the road from Beška to Novi Sad, and when we build him a bridge, and when we tell him – please, sir, make the register, or save the sacks and carry the funds. Member of the 6th Amendment, submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, I do not believe that he would explain this amendment much more concisely, much more easily and more quickly, and persuade you to vote for this amendment, but I will try. Article 6 says the loan payment funds are provided by the borrower. The beneficiary of this loan is the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia is in charge of the account of the Road Directorate, or where it will be settled, but the Republic of Serbia is in charge of this loan. Ten days ago, we discussed this loan. "The borrower is obliged to provide funds for the repayment of the loan according to the payment plan for each withdrawn tranche, in the amount to which the principal includes, the billing interest and the accompanying costs. "Of course, but you're in charge of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time that someone from the government is really pulling these ridiculous bill proposals, not to harass you or us or the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, because there's no point in going out for every bill for this pay phone and revealing affairs. There's no bill of law behind which there's no such thing as an affair. The only question is how much funds through this proposal or the previous one, or the last one, or the one 10 days ago, spills out of citizens' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that in the day of voting this amendment be adopted and that this law, which otherwise serves nothing but to put us to death, to assign children to our children, be taken off the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17437	National MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the biggest problem of this bill is contained in Article 6 and Article 3. First, according to this bill, it is clear that whoever proposed the law is not clear who is the borrower. Article 3 states that the borrower is a borrower of the Republic of Serbia, but in the explanation of individual, i.e. the explanation of the basic legal institutes, it is said: "In the provision of Article 3. The bill regulates the question of loan users, which in this case is the Republic of Serbia, or the contractor. "On this basis, as the MP Mr Krasic noted, it is very difficult to guarantee himself, but the problem in Article 6 is next - the loan user is obliged to provide the funds for the loan payment according to the payment plan for each withdrawn tranche, in the amount which includes the principal, the billing interest and the accompanying costs. The next article says that a loan actually needs to be paid by a contractor from his own income. What's gonna happen? It is said that the 120m-euro loan, which will serve to build bridges and strips on that section of the road from Belgrade to Novi Sad, will be spent by the Republic Directorate to build on construction works, and that in the end, the share under that law already passed on guaranteeing will be issued to someone else, if it isn't already. This someone else will charge toll, the Republic Directorate won't be able to do anything, but the funds will withdraw and become a debtor based on something he can't charge later. It will happen that some of the other jobs it does and generates revenue will have to give the Republic to Serbia, as a guarantee of funds to repay and repay interest, and this will lead to the Republic's Directorate for Construction in Failure. First of all, I have no doubt that a finance minister or someone who is later under this law will force someone in the Directorate, who in this case is a contractor, to accept these conditions. He may force a director or someone who wants to accept these terms to be a contractor and to hand over the papers to a concessionary, but the Republic Road Directorate will disappear. He will not be able to donate the loan, which will pull up to 120m euros. It will happen that Serbian citizens will have to repay this loan. Therefore, both Articles 6 and 7 are unclearly regulated as to who will actually repay the loan. If she cannot return the Republic Directorate, she will not be able to, as she will not charge the revenues, the Republic of Serbia will return. If only at the beginning of the 3rd term you knew who the real beneficiary of the loan was, then we would not have come to these problems, and perhaps we would not have asked for all these members to be deleted, because if some other time and the citizens were living well, that the social, political and other economic situation in Serbia is good, such laws would in themselves be understood, would not have caused this many storms in the Assembly, and it is logical that the Republic of Serbia provides guarantees for certain loans. But given that the funds on these loans are mostly spent unintentionally or that in this way the citizens of Serbia who will not collect income from what is being built on this loan are in debt, which is why we are asking that this be deleted, because we do not trust those who will have this money, nor how they spend it, nor will the state of Serbia benefit from that, because I have already been told before that some MPs have already issued the share under concession.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17439	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17440	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the European Roads Project B-Serbia-Montenegro and I have proposed that this article be deleted. I believe that Article 7 of this new law relating to the obligations of contractors should be deleted. The contractor is the Republic Road Directorate, and the question arises why would the Republic of Serbia give counter-guarantee to road shares that are already subject to concessions by government decision. Instead of giving concessions to new capital, the current government is asking this assembly to guarantee us for all beneficiaries of concessions. The SRS is against the law, which requires the state of Serbia to provide a 120m-euro counter-guarantee for loans and loans taken by DOS government, which is why it purposelessly spent the money of Serbian citizens. I suggest you adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17441	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the case of Article 7. The bill shows all the nature of the law proposed by the Government to the Assembly. We SRS MPs are against this bill because it's completely upside down here...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17443	Excuse me, please, allow the MP, be kind, please. I'll give you your time, please let the MP speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this particular case of Article 7, you can see what this proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia on the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Roads Project B – Serbia-Montenegro. In particular, it refers to a section of the road from Belgrade to Novi Sad or what it can be called the E-75 road. It is a 120m-euro loan to which the government of the Republic of Serbia has responded through such a bill. The SRS, of course, has a clear programme on borrowing and we are not against laws being passed, but to be clear and accurate. When we talk about public roads, the first order is set upside down, because no law on public roads has been passed. A law on public roads was to be passed, which would specify the national strategy for the restoration and development of the road and rail network, and then the law on concessions. As our MP, Mr Zoran Krasic, made it clear, the draft agreement on borrowing and order of move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was to be brought here, of course, not good. If we are talking about this bill, it is seen in the case of Article 7, which says: "For the loan, the contractor is obliged to provide the borrower with the funds from his own income, in the amount and by the dynamics set out in Article 6 of Article 2 of this Act, by the payment of the dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange liabilities received under the account of the NBS and the notification of the Ministry of Finance. "Station 2 says: "If, on the basis of the counterguarantee issued, the Republic of Serbia fulfils the obligation instead of the contractors, it has the right to recover the principal, interest and accompanying costs resulting from non-execution, i.e. untimely execution of the obligation, up to the level of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge the billing interest from the contractors. "St. 3. says: "Right to recover funds under Article 2(2), the Republic of Serbia will achieve by reducing the funds of established budgetary apropriations and subsidies to the contractor, or, if the contractor is not a beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budget funds, initiate payment from the workers' accounts, on the basis of the authority obtained from the contractors or other security instruments, in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic. "So here things are set upside down and this proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia is about the nature of the government's work. If we are talking about what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, how it is to do what the Republic of Serbia has to do, in order for Serbian citizens to live better, that is, if we are passing law in this National Assembly, then they must clearly specify the area to which the bill applies. And if we do as the Government of the Republic of Serbia does all the time, it has already become a practice, it proposes to the National Assembly some legal solutions that partially solve or replace the previous DS government, which we talked about in the previous agenda, just talks about how nature has been resolved and how it works. So, this bill on granting counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to this task, is not a good bill of law, and the SRS is against it, first of all, a strategy on the restoration and development of the road network in Serbia, as transit countries. The government had to have a clear program. She, of course, didn't have it, and that's why we here in the Serbian Parliament have this problem, and that's why you're proposing these inaccuracies, vague and inapplicable laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17445	Thank you, Mr. Djordjevic. You're right, the Law of Public Paths has been in the process, waiting a few months, and we'll have to adopt it as soon as possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third proposal from a set of proposed laws on loan for rehabilitation, restoration and road construction in Serbia. I have already said that the total value of these three proposed laws is about 250m euros, which is an impressive sum for our travel economy. What's different in this proposal than the previous two is that it's a little more concrete, a little bit more correct than the previous two, in terms of precision. Here it is specified what these funds will be used for, it is clearly said that the funds are intended to build a section of the E-75 Belgrade-Novi Sad road, which is to restore the existing August tapes and existing bridge over the Danube near Beška and build the second August tape and second bridge at Beška, which should be implemented by the Republic Roads Directorate. That's what's good, which is the law concrete, which is clearly what these means are. However, it remains unclear, as is unclear in the previous proposals, whether these funds have already been received and spent or not. Everyone knows this section of the highway to Beska was built. So, there's a complete highway to Beska, and that's what's being mentioned here, that's what these funds are meant for. The second bridge was not built at Beška and the question remains whether the funds had already been received, spent, the second section of the highway was built, there was still another bridge at Beška to be done and that would have been spent. If that's the case, then the problem is why we're considering here, giving counterguarantee to something already spent. If that is not the case, if those funds are not withdrawn, they are not realised, then the question remains what will be spent, if we have already done this job from our own resources. Then what is the fate of these funds and what it will be used for. Unfortunately, there are some provisions here that are too high in one of these laws and one of them is in Article 3, then in Article 7, which refers to the contractors. This is a counter-guarantee law, and it should only apply to regulating the relationship between the Republic of Serbia, which gives counter-guarantee, and the one who has taken over, or signed the contract. However, this proposal regulates relations between the Republic of Serbia, as a user, and the Road Directorate, as a contractor. It's too high in this law, and this law does not allow you to be governed. They can be edited by special acts, contracts between the state of Serbia and the Roads Directorate. Also, I think it's wrong for the Republic Directorate to be listed here as a contractor. The directorate can't be a performer, it can be an investor, and it will find some way already, through a tender, by the performers it has in Serbia and which works it will perform. All that is unclear in the proposed laws, which is going through everything and what the SRS MPs have already said here is why all of this, or why this kind of money is being taken through loans and loans, if we've already given these jobs to someone there through concessions. The concession law has been passed and the law stipulates that concessions are being given for the construction of this route, and we are now talking about a loan to build that route. So, we're going to build something, we're going to fully finance it, we're going to take one big commitment to get that loan back in the coming years, and then we're going to give it all to someone on the side to raise the toll money and exploit it. If you remember that the Law on concessions was adopted a month or two ago and that the concession was found to be given for 20 years, it is likely that whoever made the law made a clear calculation, and said that the concessionaire would have an economic effect that at the existing toll price, which was valid at that time, 20 years exploited those roads (here, Mr Markovic says 32 years) to replace the funds that would be invested to build new roads. Then it remains unclear why so much toll is now rising. It has been announced that next year it will be equal for foreign and domestic cars, so it will be increased multiplely and then it becomes clear to everyone that the concessionaire, who is probably known to be, is going to make a huge profit in this business, because we are going to make that profit by increasing these highway charges multiple times. That's what we find unclear or better said suspicious. So we simply don't trust you, based on everything you've suggested here, that you will come into this business with sincere intentions, about these loans and on concessions, and for these reasons, we have proposed amendments so that these laws don't be adopted and we appeal to the assembly majority not to accept these laws as proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17447	Anyone else want a word on the amendment to delete article 8? Article 8 of course states that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". No, thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 25th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE EUROPEAN REFERENCE AND Development BANK (FUTURE MODINATION AND IMPLEMENTING SYSTEM FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN AIRBAND) (specificities) You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 26th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE BLACK GORE BY THE GRANT OF THE EUROPEAN REGULATION AND RURAL BANK (PROGRAMME OF THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF SUBMITTION) (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Veroljub Arsic and Vjerica Rade. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17448	At first, I would like to remove any dilemmas about this amendment and possible insinuation and interpretation of why the SRS submitted this amendment. When considering these arguments that I will present on the subject of amendments to Article 1 of this bill, I ask you to avoid any localist approach or any territorial division or influence of any locality. We have submitted amendments for principled reasons, to point out to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it does not essentially have a concept, especially some long-term concept in which way, in which sense, and for which reason the need of states, and when I say the state, I mean all entities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can be directly in charge and thus create an obligation for the Republic to adopt such laws as it gives counter-guarantee. I will go ahead, Article 1 says, and states what is contained in the counter-guarantee: "The Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation as a counterguarantee of Serbia-Montenegro's obligations, as a guarantor, under the loan agreement between the municipality of Subotica, as a borrower, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as a lender, at the level of ninem euros concluded on 17 December 2004. "In a similar way, we can be addressed by a large number of municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with almost identical demands, where they indicate that they need funds to improve, and why not say to improve their lives, and that they are simply starting to bid these amounts, and probably by the size of the place, if for Saturday nine million, they are proportional to larger municipalities, they are certainly higher. The question is, how long can this go, how long can local self-government be in charge? I return your attention to the Bill on Public Debt, where we have also made a principled remark that the state has no projection of how much local self-government could be in debt abroad or at all on the financial market, and that the Republic of Serbia should assume commitments based on loans used by local self-government units. I will just specify what is written that the needs are, and it is said so – the programme aims to implement projects for the regulation of wastewaters of the municipality of Subotica, whose value is estimated at a maximum of 14.35m euros, with the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development covering the costs of ninem euros. In almost identical ways, all municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina can be addressed, especially those of the municipalities that are directly bordered, i.e. through the territory of the municipalities through the Danube River. There is a problem with wastewater, there is a problem with surface water, in different ways the municipalities solve it and different amounts are at stake, not to mention the problem of Vrbasa, which has been having problems with the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel for years. If I were to go with this logic, I could mention almost every municipality in the Republic of Serbia. Because there is no clear vision as far as Serbia can take on counter-guarantees, i.e. obligations and, on the basis of the issue of counter-guarantee, to what amount local self-government can be in debt, we cannot support such a bill, but we are asking, if the government believes that additional resources should be provided in this way, to draw up a strategy. Strategy in terms of overall needs, strategy in terms of dynamics. This year, two municipalities go, and the next two municipalities, so that the Republic has its own plan as far as it can burden itself because of loans that receive local self-government. Loans are probably needed to develop, to sort out infrastructure or what's probably a clean environmental project. So at first I said, the lack of this general strategy forced us to open the question, without any intention of binding ourselves purely to the locality of our objections. No, as you can see, we do not object when it comes to this locality and when it comes to Subotica, but we only insist that the issue be raised in principle. When that principled question opens, when you find parameters, conditions, reasons, why, under what conditions, then I ask you to start with these projects and to finish some jobs. I would only draw your attention – there was also another variant of help in the period from 1997 to 1997. But then they were, remember you from the government, so-called. independent cities, where the Together coalition won power, so they made their own special networks, and then Nis directly through the German embassy and some business banks ended, and no condition was necessary for the state to give any guarantee or counter-guarantee. Why? Because the state didn't even have payment traffic abroad, there were sanctions, there was a blockade, but that aid came through various channels, and you know that this aid was pretty much misused, under the aid company everything went through and through. Obviously, the state must have its own strategy. Once again, the amendment has been submitted for purely principled reasons, to open the topic of how the state should be in charge of the needs of local self-government, how much to be in debt, under which conditions and what dynamics of these duties should be, taking into account macroeconomic stability and payment positions of the state, and possibly, perhaps possibly, even certain, of the possibility of local self-government to serve the obligations it has undertaken on its own for some of the purposes that are purely local.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17449	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17450	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development held one kind of seminar a month ago, call that you want to join the presidents of municipalities and cities from Serbia, and at the meeting was told by the president of one of the largest Belgrade municipalities, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, they made it clear that they want to grant loans to local self-governments for the field of ecology, as well as this of the ninem euros for the municipality of Subotica, and for programmes that would mitigate the catastrophic situation in terms of social threats, misery and poverty in municipalities, in which there are no clear directions and strategies to address the problem. Unlike all these so-called. Democratic presidents of municipalities, and the one who chaired and those who spoke, participated in the meeting and spoke both Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic, and only Mrs Pop-Lazic came up with something concrete. When you're looking for money, especially some millions, you need to know where you place it, how profitable it is, and what category of help you're in particular. In late December 2004, before the adoption of the 2005 budget, the Zemun municipality clearly defined the social development strategy, i.e. the removal of poverty and poverty, through some five directions it drew for itself. Of course, it looked back on something that caused almost all local self-government, Serbia, SRJ and our economy to find themselves in the situation. None of the participants present at the meeting, organised by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, wanted to refer to the causes that led to such consequences. These are unrecorded sanctions against our country and our people, the inability to achieve minimum sustainable development, let alone invest in some larger scale, and then bombing by the NATO Pact in 1999. Of course, by many so-called. Democratic leaders and leaders have long forgotten war damage, no longer sought, and especially the current president of the Republic. This was about the already achieved developments of these projects, which is what this counter-guarantee is about. I'm going to give you one piece of information that the president of the Zemun municipality just gave me, and it's about building one of the simplest water grids, technically and technologically, according to our standards, which, about five kilometers, costs 28 million dinars. It's one move now in Ugrinovci to do, but who knows how many more of those settlements that need it. For the city of Belgrade, for all Belgrade municipalities, Nenad Bogdanovic, Belgrade Mayor envisioned construction in 2005 only 16km of water network. Channeling, it's such a luxury for the mayor of Belgrade. Not to mention the fact that there's no plumbing and sewerage in the city where I live. As much as the authorities have changed from 1996 to 2000, and since the arrival of both Mr. Stevanović and the coalition he is leading, there are no strategic directions, as the municipality of Zemun has determined: to build one third of the total mileage of the entire city of Belgrade in the area of only Ugrinovacs. The question now arises why they decided to give this amount directly to local self-government, and why the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was also said at the meeting, prefers and prefers to co-operate with local self-government units rather than with the Republic, with the "Serbians", with the "Vojvodnavods". You know, according to that DOS Omnibus law, what all the authorities got both the Vojvodina and all these public enterprises, the founder of the Autonomous Province. They have one argument that doesn't always have to be a rule, and they're not going to be in the Subotics municipality. They say it is easier for them to control these cash flows of approved loans for these concrete projects and to co-operate with the local self-government unit. We in Kragujevac, especially those in Subotica, have a bitter experience, as well as in other cities where these loans are granted, or loans for the use of these funds. Never, for the previous counter-guarantee received by the municipality of Subotic during the DOS government and other cities in Serbia, the councils' councils had not received a report, with the final budget account, on how the funds were spent, nor on donations. This is the case in Kragujevac, specifically, for those three years of DOS rule, and with loans and donations, we never got a report on who, how, where he invested, because it was not obvious, in the sense that people got the plumbing, that they got the sewer. Here's the case with Subotic, so that the Republic of Serbia, as a mere guarantee of what the Subotians, or owners, of the Casa Coalition, are going to spend money and how they will do business, and you know well that the public is not shaken, but so well aware of it from this assembly speaker, by Serbian radicals, with all of Cassi's machinations, during the time he was president of the Subotica municipality, and a sponsor to the next president, when he was vice president of the government. Here, they're the same actors, only the second name and last name of the president of the municipality, but it's also from the Casino Party, with nine million euros in trust for this project. Their goal is to protect the Danube flow ecologically. It was probably their basic motive when they approved one of these projects. Indeed, because of the problems of these people who exercise power in the municipality of Subotica and because Joseph Kasa gave his daughter, in particular, a gift of 18 acres [18 ha] of land in various ways, social, state and private property, in that affair that is well known to the public, it is difficult to understand that you, again, from the same coalition, are giving them the opportunity to have huge resources in such a way. Now, as Mr Krasic said, if every municipality in Serbia showed up with a project like this, because every major municipality, even smaller, doesn't matter, in the ecological sense, every one has big problems, from dumps, from wastewaters, through the absence of plumbing and sewerage in a vast number of settlements, such as in Kragujevac, if each came out with these or similar labs and entered into this kind of debt, the question of where this end is, and how much of the burden of responsibility, i.e. the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia, such a pre-delegation and its citizens can take on themselves. Then you wouldn't have to do anything for a month, just to approve of counterguarantee, if that's the way to go. The presidents of municipalities that are from the SRS are keeping an account, first of all, of how much of the damage the predecessors have done. Here, you have a case in the Municipality of Grock -- huge holes in the budget, abnormal spending of money by the predecessors of the DS. Our president's been trying for days and he's managed to save as many of the Grock municipality's budgets as possible in a few days, and so minimal. As far as the other presidents are concerned, with all the projects and with the strategy that has been defined to solve all these problems that are within the authority of local self-government, no one thinks that it is going down like the government in Subotica, by taking this amount of money to people who are doing very badly and doing a job in managing that municipality. That is why it is impossible for MPs to determine in this way according to problems which, above all, are in exclusive jurisdiction under the Law on Local Self-Government, units of local self-government. The problems are many, but these problems have been caused, above all, by the very poor government of DOS furniture, collected in various ways, by municipal authorities in the bodies of local self-government between 2000 and 2003. The same story repeats itself where this shortened DOS is in the coalition or has some pendants on it. What we can confidently tell you, in municipalities and in cities where radicals have taken over the exercise of power in units of local self-government, with a view to major problems and large debts and with the rational use of every dinar, is felt shifts and citizens see it from day to day. There hasn't been a year since the elections for local self-government, established local authorities, but in municipalities and cities where we've taken over, it's obvious that the shifts are obvious, there's no thieving, no corruption, no theft. This is a sufficient signal and a guideline for citizens to identify themselves during the extraordinary parliamentary elections, which will certainly be in Serbia, as well as for the fact that we are good hosts, that we are carefully considering all possibilities and are not prone to any borrowing, to vote for representatives of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17451	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment, which is proposed to delete Article 2, which speaks about what the name of the loan is? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17452	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wonder if you'd like to explain my amendment, or explain to the MPs what this is about, or leave it to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17453	Mr. Arsic, I gave you my word, please, I didn't mention your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17454	I referred to article 2 as you commented, which is why.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17455	Mr. Arsic, I'll give you your time. It is my duty to remind occasionally of the amendment. Be kind, please, speak of the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, so far we have had the opportunity to have some of the states, which you've killed by some agreements, be in debt, so we give counterguarantee to such a state, and then we've created a new one, which has never been revived, but has in debt to the Republic of Serbia - the state community, and then we've given counterguarantee to public enterprises, such as the Republic Road Directorate, then Belgrade Airport, Elektroprivreda, the Oil Industry of Serbia. Now it's our turn to give counterguarantee to the municipalities. In principle, the SRS has no objection to the market for municipalities and to compete with certain European institutions, to provide funds for the development of local infrastructure. The problem, however, is that there are municipalities that can do this, which have money, resources and municipalities that unfortunately do not have the basics of civilization and are not small. The basic fluids of civilization are probably water and sewerage, since the Roman era it has existed in some cities, and you have cities in Serbia where it is not at all or very few. The question arises: what is the government of the Republic of Serbia doing on this issue? What's the local self-government department doing? Does it have any serious plan and program or strategy to help these municipalities? Or we'll leave it to the municipalities to manage themselves and provide funds, and we'll, as a Parliament, just give counterguarantee. It's not just the plumbing and the sewers. I think there is a problem in three or four municipalities in Serbia, which meets the European Union's standards and regulations, and is a question of environmental protection. As the government of the Republic of Serbia responds to the problem and how ready it is to participate in resolving the problem, as well as the competent ministry. What exactly is the state strategy for local infrastructure development? I think even in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we have a local infrastructure development agency. Could this have been suggested by the agency to the government of the Republic of Serbia, with one such proposal, to come before the MPs in the Serbian Parliament? Could what you wrote as a bill in practice happen? That is how Article 3 says: "The funds for the repayment of loans from Article 1 of this Law (it is about nine million euros) will be provided by the municipality of Subotica (hereinafter referred to as "borrower")". In point 2: "The borrower is obliged to provide funds for the repayment of the loan according to the payment plan for all the funds withdrawn, in the amount which includes the main amount, the interest charged on the amount of funds withdrawn, the costs for the outstanding assets and other costs". In paragraph 3: "The borrower will provide funds for the payment of loans from his own income, by paying the dues to the account open exclusively for the purpose of paying off loans to the National Bank of Serbia." This was the technique of how it was imagined that the funds would be returned. However, we here at the borrower do not know what guarantees he has given the Government of the Republic of Serbia so that we can give him counter-guarantee. From what sources is local self-government financed? It is financed from the income tax - 40%, has its own local taxes, has its original incomes, such as: charges for the use of city building land, parking fees, utility fees, means, for plumbing, sewerage, waste disposal, etc. All of this can be characterised as a form of public income and as such can be found either in the budget of local self-government or in the financial plan of a public undertaking operating within the framework of that local self-government. Paragraph 4 states: "If, on the basis of the counterguarantee issued, the Republic of Serbia fulfils the obligation instead of the borrower, it has the right to recover the principal, interest and accompanying costs incurred by non-execution, i.e. the untimely execution of the obligation, up to the level of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the borrower the billable legal interest." We're already in one problem. The problem concerns the very budget of a local self-government. If the Republic of Serbia activates certain guarantees, which so far we do not know if they exist, but in Section 5. The bill states: "The right to recover funds under Article 4 of this Article will be achieved by suspending the Borrower's right to participate in taxes granted by the Republic, or by transfers established by a special law, or by initiating payment from the Borrower's account, on the basis of the powers granted by the Borrower or other security instruments, in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic." That's where the problem is now. When you try to charge for this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will encounter political problems. You will encounter serious political problems, because someone will accuse you of blocking SO Subotic's account on an international basis. They're ready for anything. They showed us the Kasa and the click behind it, supported by the Democratic Party, that they were ready for anything. Furthermore, even if you succeed, who will be the most damaged? Well, the citizens of Subotic. Will that local government be able to function? He won't. Will he be able to carry out the basic obligations he has or soon we'll have some bill here to pay off the debt, and then we'll fund SO Subotica over the next ten years. I don't mind it happening, but not from another time. Take the opportunity that the assembly of the municipality will not be able to meet those obligations and that, without citizens, you will not feel it, to collect it from the Republic of Serbia's budget, for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The funds are said to be allocated in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget and will be secured until the end of the loan payment. Does this mean that the Republic of Serbia will already pay the ninem euros in advance. If the Republic of Serbia holds in the account of its budget the money that is overly necessary for the functioning of other republican authorities, just because it has given a guarantee, now the question is what does the Republic of Serbia have to do with it. Does he have any interest, any use? There's nothing. We simply gave the guarantee and ninem euros stands in the Republic of Serbia's budget maybe five or ten years, until this debt is paid off. Probably in the budget reserve or some other budget statement. We'll have money we can't use. Or we'll keep rebalancing, synchronising, ironing, pushing from hollow to empty, just because the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't have a serious programme and a serious strategy to regulate and help local self-government have those basic civilizational assets in their municipalities. It's a plumbing and a sewer. There was that even in ancient Rome.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17457	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Verse of Radet submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17458	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard from colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group of objections and arguments in favour of our position that the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Subotica Municipal Infrastructure Programme) should not be adopted in this form in this House. The remarks made by colleagues are of principled character. So we don't mind that certain loans are directed to the municipality of Subotica. The comments were of these types that it was necessary for the state to take different care of local self-government through different decentralisations. That's what we talked about when it came to the Public Procurement Act. In general, when it comes to borrowing local self-government. Of course I have no intention of repeating what's already been said here. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and Article 4 speaks of the fact that this law should take effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Of course, if we thought that this law, along with certain amendments, could be arranged and templated to be acceptable and applicable, then, of course, this member of the law would have to exist. But since we Serbian radicals have already spoken out and expressed our principled position that this is not a good solution, these are loans without any systematic control and any previous programmes etc. Unacceptable, then, of course, is the unacceptable existence of any of these members. And since we couldn't in the principle debate explain to the finance minister, as a representative of the government, to pull this off, then we had to do this, and the only way we could express our position was to propose to each of the proposed members to delete. Of course, with an appropriate explanation. If our amendments were accepted, if these previous three members were deleted, then it would be normal to delete this Article 4 as well, and in that sense is the amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. A bill of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17459	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 27th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the DURING CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE BLACK GORE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE FUNDING OF THE PROJECT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ELECTROENERGET SYSTEM (single) You have received a report from the Finance Committee, with correction, as well as reports from the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 28th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE RESTRUCTURE OF THE LONG BY NFA AND TDFA WITH THE OBLIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Sulejman Spaho, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Milovanovic and Paja Momčev. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17460	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have now come up with old debts and it is your turn to admit that from donations and write off debts, if DOS wins the election in 2000, and he won, there's nothing. There's a debt written off, it's a fact, but why it's written off, there's more reason. One part of the debt was written off because there is no legal basis to be charged, because it refers to the period when the SRJ was in a state of embargo. Even if she wanted to serve her obligations to her creditors, she was not able because of those economic sanctions that were introduced at the time. The second part of the debt was written off because there were still some foreign currency in various international institutions, a gold reserve with various international institutions, and it simply had to be sought either to beat those debts or to keep each party going in its demands, so where to find them. However, a second question is now being asked. Immediately after October 5th and the DOS's coming to power, something that has been done for years, where the best financial experts, I can also say globally, participated in this, which is the distribution of assets of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the distribution of gold and foreign reserves and the same Yugoslavia, which fell apart in the early 1990s, and in this they failed to find the right model and key to how they would do so. A team of experts, led by Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, appeared and shared the assets of the SFRY. She divided it by creating a succession instead of a secession, which exists in international law as a form of violent secession towards statehood. It means that these countries, i.e. the Republic of the Member States, had the right to secede and create their independent states by violent means. We now have, apart from this problem here, complaints of war reparations of these same republics. I guess it was such a wish to get hold of some of those gold reserves, and even an expert in your business and expert in Miroljub Labus said, we don't have the gold reserves that the Kingdom of Serbia has brought in, because we can't find any leverage with that gold stamp of the Kingdom of Serbia. There's never been a lever with a stamp like that. There was a quality of gold, how hard it is, such stamps exist, and that's what your expert, your Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, should know. Either way, because of his division and the way he splits the gold reserves, and the foreign exchanges, we now have war reparations suits and now we have to justify ourselves. You've been in such a hurry to the European Union, you've been in such a hurry to gain some rights that we're looking for today, and the only right you've got is to be sued for war damage. If someone had thought more seriously and in the longer term, if we had insisted that it was secession, we wouldn't have a legal basis. We now need to issue bonds worth billions and 80 million dinars to the Republic of Serbia. So, in order to make such a firm economic policy, so surely to recognise the reforms of the banking system, here all day we are discussing the counter-guarantees that we are giving to someone for someone's account, we are borrowing citizens of Serbia, and now instead of counter-guarantees, we are now also going to be able to broadcast on that market to pay the debts. So, debts that perhaps due to the war damage suffered by Serbia and the SRJ in 1999 did not even have to be paid. Now you have signed all this, admitted, no more back and now you are only facing the citizens of Serbia with political responsibility for what you have done in the past five years. It's the beginning of the confrontation, because the end will be at the elections, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. What is most surprising is the interest that is given, so it is said that interest is on the annual level, it is interest in foreign currency, meaning, a solid currency, so 3.75% by 1 November 2009. How much of your business bank, type of National Savings Bank, Commercial Bank or Delta Bank, do they interest you on the deposits you've got? So it's 1 - 2% and it's normal to pay them to buy these securities of value, because it's going to be good 2%. The budgets of the new local self-government are in these banks because they have such a branched network that they inherited from the banks, those 29 that were killed in reforming the banking sector. So again, we will pay our money for someone's account to pay the bonds, so the citizens of Serbia. As time goes by, it says, 6.75 per cent from 1 November 2009 to the final maturity of the bond, almost 7%. I'd like to see a bank in the West that's going to place a loan that's five or more years at this rate. Up to five years, that's 5.65% of your calculated rate, so about 7% on the annual level. He's 20 years younger. Who's gonna buy those bonds again? Again, the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank again, the Delta Bank, will buy everything. When you can't or won't be able to pay back the debts you've just made, Serbia will buy them, whose money is the money of Serbian citizens. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen, and that's the case when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works in the interest of the government, and it corresponds to the Government and is subordinated to the Government rather than vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17461	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is one in a series of draft laws that are slowly recognised by the government of the Republic of Serbia for deceptions that have been besieged by Serbian citizens in that election campaign in 2000. Donations, favourable loans, debt write-offs were then promised, only the DOS was to be brought to power, to remove the former, as they called it, the regime, and everything in Serbia will be further. It's all happened and it's been almost five years since then and we've been discussing today how much we owe, to whom we have to pay back, of course, we don't know under any conditions, because what we're offered by the government is all hidden and hidden. Today we are talking about a bill on debt restructuring under the new financial agreement of 20 September 1988 and deposits under the trade and deposit relief agreement of 20 September 1988. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that Article 2 of this law be deleted, and this member says that the chief of the debt of the Republic of Serbia in terms of Article 1 of this law is up to a billion and 80 million US dollars, representing a reduced amount of about 62% of the total unmistakable commitments to the London Club of Trustees. The debt amount set out in Article 1 will be restructured at 20 years, with a period of five years, by issuing long-term bonds from the Republic of Serbia on the foreign financial market. I suggested erasing this member because I had the impression that this member was some kind of mistake, since we all know and we have heard about the stories of the government of the Republic of Serbia, now this and the previous ones, as we have written off the contracts of the Paris and London Club of Trustees. You all remember when Miroljub Labus cut up some cake, sang Partisan songs, played a kosher wheel, because he returned to Serbia without any debts compared to the Paris and London club's creditors. Obviously, at that time, we were deceived by another current vice president of the Republic government and that it was not all true, that it was true that we still have obligations to both Paris and the London Club. Then, in the light of the bill's proposal, he says, the reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure stems from the fact that the adoption of this law is a condition for the restructuring of the debt of the Republic of Serbia by issuing bonds, and it is necessary that the law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Then, imagine, "to avoid the adverse consequences that would occur if bonds were not issued as soon as possible, given that the date of issue of the bonds was foreseen by the Ratification Act on 1 October 2004, and that the first payment of interest reached on 1 May 2005. "So it is obvious that some of the harmful consequences have already occurred and that whether we are going to pass the law by an emergency procedure, whether it will take effect on the first day or on the eighth day since the day of adoption has no major impact, but no one has explained to us here, if these consequences have already occurred, who is responsible for these consequences. If we were under obligation, as it stands in this law and in this explanation, why wasn't it in this assembly before, what was waiting and what would happen to the period in the meantime. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary to violate the Constitution and to say that the bill provides for this law to enter into force on the next day of its publication. He says - given the need for bonds to be issued as soon as possible in order to restructure the debt of the Republic of Serbia by issuing bonds and respecting the deadline for the first payment of interest. Therefore, neither is that time limit for the first payment of interest, nor does it mean that it will be in accordance with the law, or that it will enter into force in accordance with Article 120. The Constitution or it will be contrary to that article, as proposed in this law. The government is trying, and we've been talking the same way all day, because in the same way, the government is trying to lead us astray, to suggest something inexplicable, without a government representative here to answer some questions. And then the MPs are expected to press this key that says they are MPs for some government proposal, and what does that mean for the citizens of Serbia, for the Republic of Serbia, it is obvious that those who will vote for this law do not care. Our Serbian radicals are, and that's why we won't vote for this law. That is why we are proposing amendments and I propose that this amendment be adopted on Article 2, as well as other amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17463	Anyone else want a word? (No) Ambassador Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I remind you that we are talking about amendments to the bill on debt restructuring to the London Club to reduce debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17464	You've misread it, Mr. President. It's not shrinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17465	I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, I didn't interpret it, I just informed you that thanks to this assembly and its ratification, the debt has been reduced, and now we're talking about bonds to start paying off the remaining debt, which was normally made in 1988-1990. This is just information. Mrs. Radeta also pointed to the exact dates, as it relates, and now please choose your amendment to Article 3. I'm sorry I gave you an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17466	For the sake of the public, this is a law that restructures the debt. There is essentially no difference between this regulation and that adopted in 1988 by the Federal Assembly of then-Yugoslavia. I don't know, I guess Milka Planinc was the Prime Minister and then there was a similar law that restructured the debt, that is, after a year and a half of the negotiations, if memory doesn't cheat on me, I think even the negotiations were conducted by Professor Oscar Kovac, because that was the same thing at the time -- it's sagging under the door if it's not done, the state is going into a debt crisis, etc. If I made a mistake with the names, I apologize to the professor. I know that he was leading the delegation that negotiated at the time, and I know that this delegation negotiated extremely well. This law has its long and short history or chronology of the facts that point to the time of one policy, as former SFRY was in debt abroad, for which loans were granted, so I would even say that in 1988, when the talks on restructuring of this debt, which was from previous years, were those loans that had been practically headed towards the former SFRY since 1971, and were already announced in 1965, when something had to be done with the population standard. These are the loans they had as a cover of some investment operations, so they were called Morava 2, they had their own micro codes to justify why the state is in debt, because there are not enough funds on the banking market, and she doesn't want to lose in the development. Those from the West liked to simply lend loans, because these loans create not only economic but also political dependence. It may not have been as political at the moment as economical, but these events that later followed show a growing political dependence on international financial institutions. For the public's sake, I have to point out that in the period from 1991 to 1992, practically until 5 October 2000, the former SFRY and the SRJ always showed that item in the budget if it was about its commitment, and if it was about the banks, then the banks showed it in their balance sheets. However, there could never have been any realisation and payment due to the blockade of the external wall of sanctions, the interruption of financial flows, you know what happened in the meantime. It is important that in 2000, a group of experts, which should have done one program, put a proposal on paper on how to carry out a succession. I will not go back to it, it is very unfavourable in the territory of Serbia-Montenegro, what it includes today. Later, negotiations with international financial institutions joined. I think that the negotiations with the World Bank and the IMF started first, because that is the practice, there are principles, and then by the system of cards it goes to other financial institutions, and within that these two clubs, the London and the Paris Club, according to which we had unmistakable obligations, I would say state obligations, and even though they were once like loans to a state-run institution, such as banks, some companies, etc., but it was always state-owned because of that relationship, the existence of social property and the fact that almost 100% of the production was state-owned property, or social property, it's quite all the same. As a result of these negotiations, which experts have again led, we have reached a significant percentage of the write-offs. I have to say that something that is not billable, which is not realistic and I am protesting and now, as I protested in 2001 and 2002 in the Federal Assembly, but through some other MPs, which we did not use our negotiating positions during these talks. Just to remind you, the SRJ hastily accepted as a new member of the United Nations, based on an illegal and illegal letter asking Vojislav Kostunica as president of the SRJ on November 5th, as someone from the Security Council allegedly told him - in January, there will be major problems with the presidential elections, and then a new session of the General Assembly is delayed, and it may take a while for you to be a member of the United Nations to have access to international monetary institutions. It was then forgotten that decision to suspend SRJ membership in the United Nations and this later turned out because of the principle of continuity, because we were one of the founders of the United Nations. In 2001, we had a good negotiating position, if we stuck to the facts, if we stuck to the truth, if we stuck to international law and if we stuck to justice. Why? The first thing is that the former SFRY was brutally broken by an external factor and a violent secession of the former republics. The second factor, which is also exempt by international law in favour of our space, is the fact that in many international organisations we are also founders and that on this basis we have withdrawn some very significant rights not only in the bodies. Although we used to be members of the authorities, but later we had our own representatives, so regardless of the sanctions and the blockade, our interests were as much present there. The next very important argument is the irrevocability of these claims, due to the break-up of the former state and the fact that negotiations on succession, the resolution of property-legal relations in the country-state relationship, are not completed, and an integral part of that job should also be the resolution of the rights of individuals in relation to the damage caused by the newly founded state in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. So, even that argument our negotiating delegation didn't know how to use it, it simply threw out academic Costa Mihajlovic, who was a claim negotiator who represented our best interests. Some new negotiators came in, some new experts, some new experts, who cared at all costs about getting membership papers, and then moved into some negotiations. The next argument that was thrown needlessly out of our hands, which is damages based on the crime against peace and aggression that NATO's pact has done on the territory of the SRJ. I'm not going to bid on the amount of that damage compensation, it's certainly an argument that strengthens our side's negotiating position. That argument was almost not used by the new experts, they had no opportunity to see that it was an argument. The next one, which was very bad for us, are the promises in September, August 2000, when the candidates promised power, is enough just to drop it, it comes 6.5 billion, there they are on the street and waiting across the border just to get in, honey and milk have to flow, etc. So I warn those who believe that this huge 62 write-off, almost 63% towards the London and Paris Club, is something epochal, that nothing is epochal, for the simple reason that all states enter into the system of negotiations with the entire system of international financial organisations, then they are permanently nurtured by these tananic relations of mutual demand, debt and write-offs and it is an integral part of one package. Unfortunately, many have come to this point that there is urgent co-operation with the UN tribunal, etc., and then there is this request that has been pressed and pressed. In the Federal Assembly, during the ratification of the Succession Agreement and the agreement that regulates the write-off of debt to international financial organisations, it is solemnly celebrated and it is said, we all accept, it is well, let it go and to prison, let it prove its innocence, all possible arguments have been used to weaken our negotiating position. As a result of this weakened negotiating position we had, it seems to me that last year, there was a law on ratification of the memorandum of understanding and restructuring of debt, so now these abbreviations are going to mean approximately what is in the name of this law. He was published in RS Official Messenger number 84/04 and is now asking the central question, why no bonds were issued under the law. What has changed the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it must now re-apply with us the bill on the restructuring of debt under the financial agreements, and we are now still calling for 1988. What happened in the meantime? Has anyone forgotten that bonds should be issued? Was there a problem with the Charter of Values? Is it possible that this was a problem, which made it late, and that today we are practically the second law to confirm what was done at the end of 2004? Of course someone can jump and say, it's not a confirmation, and I say it's a confirmation and that this law does not differ in its essence from the one that was brought in 2004 and the one that was brought in 1988. For the sake of the public, I must say that Article 3, which is subject to the amendment, states that the Republic of Serbia will issue bonds, of course state bonds, in nominal value up to $1 billion and $80 million, with a maturity of between 1 May 2010 and 1 November 2024, that the total amount of the principal debt under the bonds will be paid in 30 equal half-year wars. Data is that dynamic as they arrive, 3.33% is that half-year percentage relative to the principal, and at the end of Article 3, it is said that bonds are issued in the US dollar, with an individual nominal value of at least $50,000, and they are issued in so-called. Intrinsically, they're just being recorded. Obviously, they are meant for banks and other financial organisations, which can be buyers on the market of these bonds that rely on some benefits. I have to remind you that last week we were reviewing the Bill of Public Debt. Such a situation now proposed by this law is not foreseen in the public debt law. It simply does not exist as a means to regulate debt by issuing bonds. The law restructures, i.e. the delay in meeting the obligations, by covering this delay with securities of value and that it does not now turn out that the state has done anything, because obviously someone in the negotiations received a five-year grace period and that it does not have to pay off these obligations, as agreed under that ratification law from the end of last year. This law that restructures debt in each member has an installed irregularity. It's said here that the Republic is obliged to do so, and in the meantime it's about this law where exactly what procedure is prescribed and who makes the decision to broadcast state records of value, so-called. debt securities of value, where the state guarantees payment. There are still a dozen provisions that I will not waste time on the MPs who have processed this bill, but what I want you to remember in the end, that within practically seven months, we are twice essentially the same law. In Article 4, there is something called retroactivity, because bonds are issued with a date under the previous law, which I think is October 1st, 2004. That sort of thing would not be allowed, regardless of whether or not there is a question of retroactivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17467	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17468	Ladies and gentlemen, just for a moment, first of all, I have an objection to the Legislative Committee's report. In fact, the Legislative Committee, considering the amendments submitted to this bill, submitted a report to the Assembly that the Committee considers that the possible amendments of MPs Milorad Mircic and Milovan Radovanovic were legally possible, and the Committee proposes that the National Assembly reject all other amendments. I don't think the Legislative Committee can propose that the amendment be rejected, he has to say that the amendment is not in accordance with the law or that it is in accordance with the law, but not to be rejected. The Assembly, if the amendment is in accordance with the law, can discuss it and adopt the amendments in the day for voting or not to adopt it, but the Legislative Committee has no mandate to reject amendments submitted by MPs. As far as the law itself is concerned, it's already said enough about this law. This law extends the debt that exists towards the London Club, in fact, replaces the bonds of the Republic of Serbia and extends the debt to 20 years, i.e. by 2024. What is not clear here, or what is not acceptable, is what has been waiting since last year, not full year, why has this law not entered the procedure a year ago and why the bonds are now issued from the date of 1.1.2004 and we have already crossed half of 2005? All of this is unclear and there are many policies in this, many political points are collected on this basis, i.e. they wanted to gather, because, apparently, several years ago Djelic came out here with a story that he managed to write off 60% of the debt to the Paris Club, and then he came in, I think, Dinkic with a triumph that he managed to write off 62-63% of the London Club. The question is how real those debts were, how many of those debts that couldn't be charged, that didn't even exist. What is also controversial is why authorities have not since 2001 mentioned the compensation the Republic of Serbia must ask NATO member states to bomb the Republic of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro or the former SRJ. That damage is real, it's registered, it's assessed and it has to be sought. We must not, for the sake of our descendants, forgive anyone for what has been done. So, the Republic of Serbia cannot amnesty any of the responsibilities, does not do some political points to the current elite ruling Serbia, but because of its descendants, for our children's sake, so that what has been done is not forgotten and forgiven. We are much more wanted by the West, which in 1999 has materially destroyed us than these debts we have from the time of the former SFRY towards those Western countries, or financial institutions. Therefore, we will not accept this, we cannot accept it, but I note once again, we can neither forget nor forgive those who bombed Serbia in 1999 for 78 days. We have to look for that. This authority, since the previous one has not done so, must be a little more determined to come forward on this matter and perhaps adopt a common position in this assembly, about which we must have a consensus. That our claims towards the West, namely the NATO Pact or NATO members of the pact are clearly asked of them and that it be the subject of some of our negotiations and talks with them in the future, so that in some foreseeable time we can also collect those debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17469	More on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Mr Jovanovic, you are right: either it is legally possible or it is not legally possible. I can't understand that this is what it says in the reminder. The amendment can be rejected, but then it wouldn't be considered, and it can't be rejected. Therefore, the Legislative Committee only considers that the amendment is not legally possible. It's the only way we can interpret it. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it possible to make an amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17470	I'll also review Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10, since it does one whole, so we don't go out all the time and we don't waste this time. Article 9 says, "All legal issues relating to bonds will be settled in accordance with English legislation." Since this English legislation has become an integral part of our legislation, it is not clear to me. This is the first member in whom someone calls on other people's legislation, and not only invites it, but says that it applies to us, to whom they refer, to relations between those who broadcast securities of value, are bonds, and those who have these securities of value. If anyone thinks this is possible with us, I express my dissatisfaction that the Legislative Secretariat missed this, whether he kept quiet, whether he didn't see it, but this is legally impossible. How can we appeal to English legislation when it is not an integral part of our legislation? This way it can't be written in one law. Article 9 shall not enter into force at all. I don't know what you did when you wrote this text of the law. Can anyone imagine a law being passed in the English Parliament, and there is one member in that law, saying: on paper of value issued by the English government and by the holder of these securities of value, the Serbian law on the securities market will apply. It's impossible, people. Look at the demeaning and devaluation of this constitutional justice system we're experiencing here. If someone was going to protect the rights of foreigners, who can participate in the market and buy securities from the values of this law, it's not controversial, but the regulation that applies must be originally ours. Our state, which will issue securities of value, and a foreign bank or a foreign company that has come into the portfolio of these bonds, cannot relate to regulating English legislation, because the question is asked – what if a French firm wants to buy it, why would English legislation apply to it? Who is it to say that Serbian legislation does not apply in Serbia? This is a scandal that never happened in the Republic of Serbia. That's for sure. Something like this has never happened in Serbia. I call on the MPs, if the government does not see this nonsense, I apologize for using this word, I ask the MPs to bear in mind the amendment of the SRS, and in particular the amendment of Ambassador Milorad Mircic, as regards Article 9 of this bill. Since I am already here, let's also finish with article 10, which says: "The funds for the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". What did they not write in the Kingdom of England's budget? When they call for their legislation, why don't they go over their commitments to their budget? You're saying he can't. He can't, but you can see how pointless what he's doing is. Of course, the obligation remains for the Republic of Serbia, but we have not received answers to many questions during today's session, over many counter-guarantee laws. In this law, I'm sorry, please, you've seen that this is about office nonsense, that someone is promoting English legislation in Serbia. That he said -- international contracts, international standards, international rules, etc., and somewhat to be understood because of the interpretation of your constitutional charter, where international standards and international law are an integral part of the internal legal order. But English legislation, which is based on precedents, which is directly contrary to continental law, with a way of thinking, with an understanding of the principle of legality, please, this is a crime that has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17471	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17472	Thank you very much. The debate is coming to an end, I say again, today is a strange and absurd debate that we are having. There's no dialogue here, you're listening to the monologue of a party, who's honored to have another debate over the debate and to get political points, in pure exchange for the fact that we're against law-making. We keep talking and trying to prove that we're just against making false laws, that we're against scrambling with these laws and that we're against manipulation of every species. Let me get right to this law. If you are watching Bilten "Tanjuga" since 26 July 2004, it is now 2005, you have news: The Law on ratification of the agreement with the London Club. This is what my previous counterpart Krasic said -- we adopted the Law on ratification, the Memorandum of Understanding, on the restructuring of the NFA-TDFA debt between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee. Let me remind you, what we adopted in the first article is how we took the obligation to pay and the Montenegrin debt. That's what still doesn't change. We got a write-off, as it says here, for 62%, but we made a commitment to pay this debt. Article 11 is very short and I will read it: "This law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In the explanation of our promoter's position, the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, he says, "It is necessary to pass the law by an urgent procedure, in order to avoid the harmful consequences (i.e., they do not exist) which would occur if the bonds were not issued as soon as possible, given that the date of issue of the bond was foreseen by the Ratification Act on 1 October 2004, and that the first payment of interest reached on 1 May 2005." So, October 1st has passed. Nothing's been done. So, interest payments started on 1 May 2005, and we're in July of the month, it's a state of play. Further - Reasons for the entry into force of the law before the eighth day of publication, he said "the bonds are issued as soon as possible to restructure the debt of the Republic of Serbia by issuing bonds and respecting the deadline for the first payment of interest". Imagine "respecting the deadline" in July, and the deadline was in May. What's this? President, protect us from these nebuloses and this madness to prevent a breach of deadlines. I wonder if there are any consequences that someone wasn't, say, up-to-date. Let's say it's all good, with this signing of this law and adoption, but is there any consequences? If you enter only this memo, which we have signed, and signed by Mr Dinkic and a certain person, I am not familiar with, Kay Kristen, here's what it says - the date of issue, the scheduled date is October 1, 2004, as it says here in our explanation. But it can't be later than December 31st, 2004. The interest shall be calculated starting from the intended date of issue. Gentlemen, the interest is running. We pay, and the funds stand where they stand. Furthermore, it says this - it will finally arrive on November 1st, 2024. Not to enter the capital, there is a clause that, when translated from English, says voluntary payment in advance, good will pay is called that item, and says – it pays 40 million dollars. He says this way, the date of payment - this amount is payable at the date of completion of the debt restructuring. But if the closing date is not on 31 October 2004, Serbia will deposit on that date the amount to be paid in advance to a special purpose account, without the right to refund. Gentlemen, the question here is who is responsible for this delay and this much? What was that objective? Who's responsible for distracting us, if we don't urgently pass a law like this, that we will prevent the result of the bad consequences that have already obviously come into effect. Don't lie to us, don't underestimate us. When I left the last time, Mr. President, I asked you nicely, where is the 28m euros it shows on its Ministry of Traffic site, where it invested in the reconstruction of our roads? You're talking about a single bank loan, which is about 95m euros. I'm not saying I need someone to count, I'm written enough to figure out how much the euro represents the dinar and vice versa. My question was how are professional services allowed to release such documents, which are clearly below each level and which cannot defend themselves, and probably because of that, there is no one to defend them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-11-0.u17473	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Once again, what is pointed out in detail, that is, every day, there have already been adverse consequences. I really tried to protect and put it on the agenda, and I can only do that when it's a regular session. But you probably forgot all of you, during April and May, 50 MPs came out and talked about one amendment, and then a technical agricultural law of 18 working days was discussed. Unfortunately, it wasn't possible to put it on the agenda. But thanks to all of us, we now have a Rules of Procedure that can be speeded up. This reduces the harmful consequences for Serbian citizens. Thank you so much for these detailed warnings. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue the search in details of the 29th item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much.
