ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15925	According to the Service records, 145 have been reported. Please, for the record, let's find out how many of us are in the O.R. Since there's plenty of us in the Rules of Procedure, we can start work. Before we move to the debate, I would like to inform the MPs present that the announcement of the prevention of the attendance of the sittings was delivered by the following MPs: Milos Aligrudic and Gordana Comic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amendment to the constitutional rule of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, with a proposal for a law on the implementation of the amendment and I II to the Constitution of the National Community of Serbia and of the Black Mountain Does any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary clubs want a word? If no one answers the word, we'll move in order of discussion. Before we go in the order of the reported discussions, just to say, since someone was interested in my health yesterday, that I was abroad, I wanted to inform him that if he didn't think Gracanica and Laple Village were abroad, then I wasn't, and if he thinks, then I was abroad. In accordance with the order applied for the review of the Amendment proposal, Zoran Ćirkovic is the Constitutional Charter, and the MP Alexander Vucic is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15926	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliament Club took part two years ago in the debate on the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We then pleaded against the text of the Charter, not because we are against the common state with Montenegro, but by doubting constitutional solutions prescribed by the Constitutional Charter. Of course, although we don't like it, solutions have proved to be simply not good, because the state community didn't function well. As a confirmation of this, institutions, prescribed by the Constitutional Charter, did not live. Now we're simply brought into one matt position. This assembly has declared a law on direct elections, I took part in this debate, and it seems to me that I have said that we are making an account without innkeepers, for the reason that I doubted the election would take place, even if not in the Constitutional Charter prescribed. Montenegro has not even pleaded on these elections, and the law has not passed. At this point, we have an extortionary solution and a New Serbia parliamentary group and its pre-election coalition partner support the amendments made, for the reason that one situation is at stake. So, these amendments, respecting the fact that the deadlines for the elections are over, serve as a constitutional command to make such a state worse. That move, again I say, has been extorted and respecting the political reality we will support constitutional amendments. What remains as a bitter taste again is the fact that Serbia, as a larger member of the common state or state community, is in a position to expect Montenegro to react to this. Following the media, we see that the government in Montenegro, in principle, does not give up on the referendum. Although I do not dare to be a prophet, because simply this ungrateful role does not suit me, it seems to me that Montenegro, however, will rather define itself as a referendum, rather than a direct election. My suspicion in this regard is justified, because in 2006, or the following year, it is a regular deadline for the elections in Montenegro. It is clear that the proposed amendments would also hold direct elections for the state union. To avoid that fact, I am sure that the government of Montenegro will approach a referendum on citizens who enjoy resident rights in Montenegro. What I doubt is the fact that it will be possible for the world to impose democratic standards on Montenegro, described in the Constitutional Charter and the envisaged amendments. But anyway, anyway, it's just a problem for Montenegro. Serbia is in this phase of waiting. It will act under the law it has passed, it will follow amendments it will now vote and once again, so the New Serbia parliamentary group and its pre-election coalition partners will support amendments to the Constitutional Charter, or proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15927	Thank you, Mr. Cirkovic. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vucic, and let the MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday in his opening statement, Tomislav Nikolic said that the Serbian Radical Party would not vote for the bill to implement amendments to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, not because we are against the state union, although it is not a common state, as some say wrongly, it is two completely different, not only legal terms, but essentially two different concepts. So, not because of this, but because of the fact that the Constitutional Charter and its changes always impose on us, because they never bring us anything good, they simply remove the state attributes of what should exist as the central government in the state community, sometimes in the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, which was called the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Since 5 October, we have only a loss of the jurisdiction of the federal state, i.e. the abolition of the federal state, the acquisition of one legal provision, which is not even an alliance of states, which, fortunately, is not even a personal union, since the succession of rulers from both Member States did not match, is not even a pure real union, there are even some of the characteristics that are less known in real unions in legal and political history, such as Austria. We don't have a single customs system or a single customs regulations that existed in Austria at the time. We had some elements that kept us hoping that there was once, at some point, those hybrid elements, which deviated from federalism and confederalism, if you will - the state union, we could return a little more to that side, as were direct elections, and which was against which was the official Montenegro, not Montenegro, but Montenegro's leadership from the beginning, because they wanted to deny, at any cost and in any way, the existence of any state community, and especially what you called a common state. Today, when we evaluate the hierarchy of legal acts at the level of the central government, at the level of the Member States, we can see that we have incomparably worse solutions than we had in the 1974 Constitution. The changes we had at the time were very bad, until that moment we had solutions to which the republican constitution had to comply with the federal constitution. After that, there was a change, so it is said that they must not be in the opposite, and thus it was at the hands of the creation of hybrid federal confederal elements, i.e. essentially more confederal, and only formally-legal federal elements. Today, we have something that does not know modern law, which is not known to modern political systems, and in a similar way, this norm existed in the former Soviet Union under the Constitution of 1953, and it was by these stitches that the Soviet Union broke. This is that each unit, i.e. a Member State, has the right and the possibility to make a sovereign decision on secession from the central government and thus form its own country. What are we supposed to support this for? What is this that we're offered? We are offered that on the same day we will be held direct elections for the National Assembly when elections are held for the Member States' congregations. What do we get by that? We, in fact, show that we have no direct elections for the parliament of the state union, and I'll tell you why. It's one logical scam, because we actually have essentially indirect choices. If you have republican elections, the SRS list will go to Dr Vojislav Seselj and the first on the list Tomislav Nikolic. You have elections for the parliament of the state union, so you will go to the SRS list Dr Vojislav Seselj, the first on the list Tomislav Nikolic. It is understood that there will be a plus-minus 5-10 thousand votes in the game of large numbers, and that is no difference, and in the number of mandates there is no difference in proportion, and that the list will receive an equal number of votes. Not to enter now at all, as will the DSS list Vojislav Kostunica, for example, or any other list, DS Boris Tadic, anyway. It would be essentially a good thing and it would be a normal solution to keep us going right now, you don't have to think it's a political game now, so we're saying it's because we like it or not. No, I don't. It may be at any time, but it may not be at the same time as the elections for the parliament of the Member States. You can hold on to it any time you want. The other problem is that we have violated the Constitutional Charter and that because of the violation of the highest legal act by the central government, the highest legal act in the state community, we now have to bring these amendments. The question is, who's to blame? They usually say, we are forced to do so, it is wrong for Montenegro's state leadership and I can say that it is true that they are separatist, it is true that they are running a serious campaign, it is unfortunate that we in Serbia are not able to agree on how to support those forces that are against that separatist bloc. It is unfortunate that Tadic and that unfortunate Bogdanovic are going down to their promotions. It's too bad they're talking nonsense down there. It is sad to help those who want to destroy this country, but what to do, to see how many others would like to help those others, who would like to help the survival of the state community, so that one day we create conditions for the existence of a common state or a federal state, or a federal state, are all synonyms, if we are not able to create one single state. So, what do we do about it? We're not doing anything. Some of you come out here and tell us, so today is a better situation than yesterday because Milo Djukanovic admits something. What's he confessing? He'll have to confess now in July the indictment, since the Italians are finally pressing charges against him for all the crime, and for all those speedboats, and for all those miracles, and I don't know what the great democratic friends from here will say, because they've come here on his wings to power and run campaigns from below, and he was their biggest friend. I don't know how many speedboats were involved, how many tankers, boats, how many drugs, cigarettes and everything else. We now have a question: come on, people, let's see what we're going to do; shall we keep it quiet and let it lead Montenegro into independence, contrary to the interests of not only the citizens of Montenegro, but the interests of a great part of our people living in Montenegro; or we will do something about it. That silence, where it won't happen, won't allow the EU, and as you can see it will. You have assured us that the EU will not allow any direct elections, and as you can see, the EU has allowed this and ordered you to make such semi-idiotic amendments. I know you know that, too, the largest number of you here, and I know you agree with everything I've said. My question to you and my wish is to sit down, people, figure out, you're the government, tell us what to do about it. Find a solution, not to bring us in as before the final case, as if in front of a completely complete matter. Here, we have to do this, we've been made and ordered. Then let's end the assembly, and the government, and the president and all if it has to. Then let's not ask ourselves anything and not decide anything. For what? Here you are talking about a referendum according to European standards. Do you know what it means for Milo Djukanovic and for these accidents going down to support him, these yellow accidents. What's this about? He'll say, it's enough of those who go to the election 50 percent plus one. How are they going to do that? They're gonna force it into action because they're gonna buy it, because they're gonna kidnap it, because they're gonna do every possible police method to do it. Now let me let you know what he did in the Budva elections. He got a convincing majority, but he did one amazing thing, which is that he brought 480 people from Belgrade and the surrounding area to vote for him. They had every obligation to put a dot on both ballots, since they were a ticket for the mayor and a ballot for the party lists to be elected, to know how they voted. I also have a witness who's willing to claim it. They had an obligation on the right to place a dot in order to know that those coming from Belgrade had to vote for the separatist list and for separatist candidate Milo Djukanovic. What we did. Did we say that somewhere? Did we do something somewhere, help someone somewhere? As far as we're concerned, we've given up our candidate as a political party and supported the candidate of other pro-Serbian and pro-Yugoslav parties. As a list we passed the censorship, so no one can tell us anything and become a parliamentary party, but no one else has done anything, has done anything. Is that how we're gonna lose a piece by piece of land? Is that how we're gonna lose a piece of territory? Will it be the same with Kosovo and Metohija and with these completely foolish attitudes that no one knows how to represent, which is more than autonomy and less than independence. What does that mean to certain members of the government, I ask you, Minister Loncar, to explain it to us, although it is not directly related to this, tell us what it means. I've spoken to the people of Vojislav Kostunica's environment, and they say they're against it, and then I ask, tell me what it means to these literally unfortunate people who don't know anything, and they go and repeat it and stick to it like a drunk float. That means delayed independence, Mr. Loncar, that means independence for two, three years for Kosovo and Metohija, and you know it as well as I do, we all know it, and we all keep quiet, and we all pretend nothing happens in Serbia. Whose position it is, man, whose position it is, did this congregation establish, did this congregation decide that we are for something more than autonomy and less than independence? What's inside one country is more than the most autonomy. What? It's parole or so-called. delayed independence. Why are they hiding it? Then how can they stand for it? Is anyone going to talk about it publicly and openly? Every day this one repeats it to you, in every place and wherever it is found, this Draskovic. Every day. The fact that the people in Serbia are mocking his two, three percent or how many there are, there are not two percent, it doesn't matter, in the end line. Man, it's the foreign minister, you got some in the Serbian government repeating it. Is someone finally going to say it and that it's not this country's policy or is it? Will someone finally say that it is not the country's policy to attend the final meeting of Milo Djukanovic in Budva, where it says, democratic and European Montenegro will be when it joins the EU, as well as democratic and European Serbia. How's that? So, it can be separated, it doesn't bother them, it doesn't bother the yellows, just be a speedboat, and be a crime and a criminal, and they don't care. I read you a quote from this Belgrade genius, which went down to their final meeting. He spoke very wisely, what wise words he had spoken, only that you could hear it. And what other words they used to say. Their most important task in the local elections in Budva was "Living an independent, independent and sovereign Montenegro". And together with them Boris Tadic and Nenad Bogdanovic. Have a nice stay at the most expensive bar on St. Stefan, send me people to cry nice, where when they move in, they can't approach St. Stefan. Closed by St. Stefan, 150 bodyguards, some with big heads, big muscles, with lots of hackers, many miracles, closed to not being seen, just cameras of Montenegrin TV and Budva television, to show citizens that St. Marović and Boris Tadic think well of Budva, how nice it is to be independent of Montenegro. I waited only for when the attitude would be and for Budva to be independent. That wouldn't surprise me either. To go back to this professional part, when we talked about the real union, about some hybrid model between the confederate and the real union, I have to say that there are amazing things here. We don't have a single payment traffic with Montenegro today. It is something that is absolutely incredible and then it is pointless that anyone in any way tells us about good relations and better relations today with Montenegro's leadership or I don't know who. There's one thing I want to warn you about. Do not sell out the state property of the common state in time, today its legal successor to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, by taking the money to the separatist leadership of Milo Djukanovic. And Milo Djukanovic can't have military property in Valdanos, or anywhere else, because I can see that he has come to buy and to pet everything that's military property on the Montenegrin coast, but to see how it's possible that this property can be protected among other things, and to help those who want to survive, even if such things are as state-owned as they are, and no matter how radically hidden and done. We in the SRS are trying to do that, and I think that's what you feel, and you see and think. We are both correct and good opposition, and why. Because we've never threatened your country, not you, but all of us, and whenever it comes to the state, we'll always try to find some kind of common language with everyone. But we ask of you and we insist that you behave incomparably more responsibly, that you point to things that happen in the country, and not one more day has passed, close your eyes, so no one, nothing, that we are going into conflict with these or those. Aman people, there is no more going in or out of conflict, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is open, Montenegro is open. The whole of Montenegro, here is Palalic, was in the billboards for Montenegrin independence. Is there a countercamp? There isn't. Is anyone fighting for any arguments? Don't fight. What are they stronger in? In having more speedboats. We can get it together fair and square, if that's what it takes. A voice from the O.R.: More speedboats. No, you're specialists for speedboats. Boris Tadic is a speedboat specialist. We don't know about the speedboats, right to tell you, that's what I heard when you support each other, when you praise the democratic speedboats of Milo Djukanovic, and he praises your democratic speedboats. Whatever you're carrying in them, that's what you're gonna tell us, I really don't know. I just heard your profits are big, but they say cigarettes, some say drugs, some say other things, I don't really know. Just to finish what's very serious. We can, in a fair way, collect a sufficient number of people who know, people who are honest, honest, and responsible, people who are willing to help the survival of this country, and all together, if we need to find a solution on this matter, we can find it. You will see that the people of mind, the people who want to fight, who have faith, easily defeat the speedboats, and Milo Djukanovic, and Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15929	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and to prepare for the discussion, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15930	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, fellow MPs, for the SPS, these amendments to the Constitutional Charter are not a way for chronic problems in the functioning of the state community to be resolved, but only to be extended. They are not the way to solve these problems, because these amendments do not have that content, which could help solve problems in the functioning of the state community. These amendments address a particular problem. It is a question of electing MPs in the Assembly of State Communities and one framework is given for another issue that is permanently emerging in the functioning of the state community. The SPS voted two years ago against the Constitutional Charter and we were absolutely right, because then we argued, and the practice later showed that no common state was created, because there was no function of the common state, that a mutant was created by the state, which has huge problems in functioning. Problems arise in the organisational part, in the job description of the state community, and in particular problems that escalate through the behaviour of people representing the state community. In fact, we've had a situation for the past two years for the representatives of the state community to behave as they do, each representing their own policy. We had a situation where at international meetings, representatives of the state community see or do not see, greet or greet, make different statements. We even had an example of an ambassador of the state community leaving the post to become president of the Independent Montenegro Movement. That's all, and a lot of other evidence suggests that the problems in functioning are numerous, that the state community is the same as doesn't have a long future. But as long as there's a chance it's worth fighting for and in this context we're looking at these amendments as well. When I said they were dealing with a particular problem, the first amendment tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia refers in the way of elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and solves the problem of the legitimacy of the current lawmakers. The amendment sets out that the mandates of the current MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly are to be extended until the elections are held. We may have one paradoxical situation, to hold elections in Montenegro in one period of time, in Serbia in another, but that is also a problem that is seen and which is trying to buy time, because the essence of these amendments is buying time, expected to change the ruling structure in Montenegro or change the overall mood of citizens. The mood of citizens is a variable category, and if that is also some element on which we are eventually building a strategy on how to solve the problem of the functioning of the state community or how to solve the problem of the common state, then that can also be some reason to fight. The second amendment concerns the matter of the Member State's referendum. In this regard, it is concluded that the Member State organising the referendum will co-operate with the EU to comply with international standards. To be honest, I expected from the government's representatives, even if it would introduce us to the content of what is an international democratic standard, because the experiences of EU countries, the experiences of the referendum held in EU countries, show that this concept of international democratic standard is very flexible and that standards are determined in relation to the issue on the agenda. Somewhere there's no question of any criteria, it's enough that a certain number of people come out to vote, puts a 50% condition somewhere, about two-thirds. It would have been good if we had heard if there was experience that the EU had called a referendum on the issue of the survival of the state, the question of the fate of the territory, what was the standard at that time. I am convinced that this standard here will not be low, on the contrary, be high, not because of ourselves and not because of the fate of the Serbia-Montenegro state union, but also because of the fact that the European Union will certainly look at itself, but also at the situation in Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. I don't just mention the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, because these are two parts of the territory, one within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other within Serbia, where the matter of the referendum is mentioned in one way or another, or if not mentioned, will certainly be asked. And the European Union will have to define this issue for its own sake, because the criteria set out in the event of a referendum in Montenegro will have to be applied to them, so we will be in a position to see what is an international recognition of the democratic standard, given that this concept has very different content. I mentioned this, first of all, to realize that there is a very clear limit and range of these amendments and I repeat once again, so for us, the SPS MPs, this is a way to solve one particular problem, another to set one framework, but essentially buy time and try to solve these problems in the coming future. We believe that the SPS MPs are worth fighting for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, and because of common history, because of the common roots, because of our tradition, because of our needs, because of solving the problem of the present and rich and the future. The history of Serbia-Montenegro's relationship is such that it shows that they were always better at solving problems, both when they were together than when they were separated. In the past, it was said that there was one people in two countries, the Serbian people in Serbia-Montenegro, and that people in the two countries were in the past and how they helped, both military and political, of course and economically, and that was something that was an integral part of their common life and their fight against the common enemy. It used to be the Ottoman Empire, Austria in recent history, in the political history of Italy and other European countries, but all this shows that they have jointly solved the coming problems. There are even cases in history that Montenegro has asked for its particular problems or territorial enlargement to be done at the expense of the territory it has acquired by Serbia, but I must say once again, it was all part of a common strategy to tear as many members of the same people under the influence and control of major forces and to be in Serbia, either in Montenegro. It was not asked as a question, because it was written by both one and the other dynasty, or the third dynasty, in both states that it was the same people. A historic question we still do not have an answer to, if it is a single nation, why, for those 58 years, as far as Nikola Petrovic was the ruler of Montenegro, has never been able to reach an agreement on the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, and it is known that Petrovic's dynasty was in relations with Karadzic and Obrenovici. But that's another question and it's not the subject of this congregation. We also believe it is good that there is a common state because of the need for a common solution to the current problems. It is essentially easier to protect national and national interests. It should not be fooled, because both Montenegro and Serbia have been attacked in every way and demands countries in the environment for parts of Serbia-Montenegro's territory. The Greater Albania project, for example, includes not only Kosovo and Metohija's territory, but also parts of Macedonia's territory, this is western Macedonia, but also includes parts of Montenegro's territory. It is logical to assume that, in the event of Serbia-Montenegro's separation, Montenegro's position will also be weaker than if it were a single common state. I think it's something that's being ignored, especially from the ruling political structure in Montenegro, and simply that topic is not mentioned. It is also necessary, in our opinion, that there is a common state in order for us, at the threshold of the 21st century, to show the ability to solve problems with democratic means, negotiations, that we can build, that we can progress, rather than divide and argue. We also believe that there is a need for a common state, because together we can progress faster, both Serbia-Montenegro, and politically and economically, and be part of what is called the integration process. I will not use the word "integration processes in Europe" on purpose, but "integration processes as part of the process of the modern world". The fact is that it is good that there is a common state and for one reason that concerns the protection of members of the Serb people. According to Montenegro's latest census, more than 30% of Montenegrin citizens have declared themselves Serbs. It is quite logical that it is easier to help them, to achieve a greater degree of protection in the common state than to be in separate countries, because then the situation is different and then from one nation you become a minority, with everything that it means, and the practice of relations with minorities is very different. The separation of Serbia-Montenegro would essentially mean the completion of a project in 1990, a breaking and negativity project in Yugoslavia, but it is also a project that is less discussed, i.e. a project of sharing the Serbian people in both essential and spatial terms. When we look back a decade behind us and look at what was created at the heart of the former SFRY, we'll see that new states are formed. When we look at the fate of the Serbian people, we will see an interesting situation, from the people of the positive part of the great Yugoslavia, Serbs are unacknowledged or not recognised as a minority or as a nation in emerging countries. Or they are recognised as a minority, as in Croatia, but in the meantime they are ethnically cleared and their number is very reduced to a percentage that they do not represent, as some nationalists in Croatia like to say, a threat to the Croatian people. Of course, without any rights, and with a future that is extremely pink, because they are not allowed to return to the hearth, let alone solving property and legal disputes. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have an interesting situation again. Through the Dayton Agreement, Serbs were found to be a positive nation, but their current position is such that their rights are permanently reduced and they deny the statehood of Republika Srpska for the account of what is called Bosnia and Herzegovina or that state, which is obviously formed in a way that is as many common functions as possible and deny entity properties. Essentially, in Bosnia it would be the negation of the Dayton Agreement, and it exists. Splitting Serbia-Montenegro in historical terms would be a practical turning back century. When we look at the state that exists, we'll notice one interesting thing, there's a parallel from which interesting conclusions can be drawn. If you look at where we are now and look at the end of the 19th century, the time of the Berlin Congress, you will notice, as far as the Serbian people and the situation in the Balkans are concerned, literally the same situation. Serbia-Montenegro was then two divided states or states that wanted to solve some of their problems. Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina were ruled by Kalai, and today they are ruled by Paddy Ashdown, Kosovo and Metohija under Ottoman Empire, and today they are ruled by UNMIK and KFOR. In the period 1912-1978, between 200 and 350,000 Serbs and Montenegrins were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. Since 1999, under the auspices of UNMIK and KFOR, 250,000 Serbs have been expelled and the situation is the same. Now all we need is for Serbia and Montenegro to split. One of the politicians who does not see the situation, who cannot see this parallel, who cannot understand that behind the requirement to separate Serbia-Montenegro are the interests of the great forces, those who have always shared the Balkans, this objectively should not even deal with politics, let alone talk about common interests or the need to maintain a common state. I mention this because yesterday, by different people here in the National Assembly, we heard a lot in favour of maintaining a common state, and drilling into the chest, and talking about the state being meant to exist. Basically, some of them are working to break up the common state. I have to mention two examples here today. One who mentioned some other fellow MPs, and this is DS MPs, one event that was mentioned yesterday, I will mention it, because it deserves to be mentioned, because one of the top DS people, our colleague Bogdanovic, vice president of the DS, participated in the pre-election meeting of the DPS in Budva and, logically, promoted the policy of independent Montenegro. There is one logical question – does DS speak one and does the other, as it did in the past? During the 1999 bombing, they discussed the need to defend the country, and they went abroad and asked to continue the bombing, so that the Socialists and Milosevic would leave the government as soon as possible. In recent years, their MPs, or people elected from their list, have promoted a policy of breaking Serbia and breaking Serbia-Montenegro. It is not just a rally in Budva, but a meeting in Pristina was announced from June 13th to 15th, which also includes people who are MPs of the assembly and who were selected from the DS-Boris Tadic list. The papers passed it on, and I recorded it. There are several of our colleagues, from Natasa Micic, Zarka Korać and other people from the faction of the former Democratic Party. It is interesting not to mention others, because they are not MPs, but these are selected from the DS list – Boris Tadic. The question now arises what they are doing, for example, have to seek in Pristina and discuss the status of Kosovo and Metohija beyond the state of Serbia, past the government and beyond the platform the state determines. Whose interests do they work for? Are they the predecessor of those forces in international relations that break our space and our country or are doing some of the jobs that have been arranged long ago, so the bill has to be done by the end? On whose behalf do these people work because it is not only a question of Montenegro and promoting separatist electricity in Montenegro, but also of Kosovo and Metohija? It would also be good for counterpart Bogdanovic to come out here and explain to us how it is possible for the Democratic Party's vice-president to celebrate the separatist movement in Montenegro and how it is possible that DS MPs in this assembly come past the state and beyond what is called a common strategy. Because when there was a debate in the Security Council, even though we had a chance on TV to see that the president of Serbia also joined the positions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, and that there was a single front about what should be done about Kosovo and Metohija. I'm saying this because it's very important. It showed how empty they were, how politically motivated the DOS leaders' statements and behaviour were, at times common, and especially DS, when they urged Serbs to participate in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. And Petersen, and before that, Kouchner and all the other Cushners showed they only needed Serbs as one image, as one frame, as one frame, so they could say tomorrow that there are institutions. If you listened carefully to Petersen, he mentioned only one thing: there are institutions. There was nothing else he could say, not a word about the return of Serbs and Montenegrins, not a word about the fulfillment of Resolution 1244, nor did he mention it, not a word of security, nor a word about the quality of life in Kosovo and Metohija. It's just mentioned that there are institutions. And who helped create institutions? Those people who called for elections in Kosovo and Metohija three years ago helped. It was then a single DOS policy. And he helped Boris Tadic last year when he called to go to the polls. It would be good to hear the DS representative what Boris Tadic has promised if he does not meet within 90 days, so that we can report today and see if he has fulfilled his promise. Anyway, we have this one hypocrisy in action. There's one thing to talk about, another thing to do. But we also have an obligation as MPs to talk about such phenomena and to say that this is fundamentally against the interests of both Serbia-Montenegro, against Serbia's interest, since two different things have been mentioned here. Finally, I would like to say that for us, MPs of the SPS, it is not disputed to support these amendments, because we need to do everything that can be done to create at least any possibility that the state community exists. These amendments give Montenegro another chance. The argument comes out of the hands of the majority in Montenegro who would be eager not to adopt these amendments and who would then yell – here we are, we will, but Serbia will not; or – we would, but there is no good will in Serbia. This is an opportunity given to Montenegro, but which does not belong to us in Serbia, at least in the opinion of us SPS MPs, negative tones. I think it's something you can accept. This is not bad for Serbia, and I think the Assembly should accept this, because this creates an opportunity for the situation to change and fix the better, not even worse than the bad that exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15931	Mr. Ristic, you're not the head of the parliamentary group. However, you may have changed in the meantime, but I'm not informed. Mr. Markovic, you in the Rules of Procedure? If it's in the Rules of Procedure, you can, and I don't see the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15932	Mr. Chairman, I have reported that by objecting to the Rules of Procedure, because you have denied Mr. Bosko Ristić the right to replication. (President: Mr. Markovic, how did you know that I would deny the word to Mr. Ristic? You tell me now which member of the Rules of Procedure you're calling and then you're talking about the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. ) When Mr. Zarko Obradovic speaks here, I always refer to article 100 as a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Here, this time I'm calling on article 100. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by the fact that the right to the replica is denied, Mr. Bosko Ristic. That's why I answered, because Mr. Bosko Ristic raised his hand on time, while Mr. Zarko Obradovic had his exposure. You saw it, and you consciously didn't want to give it the right to a replica. Now I ask you, as a fellow vice president, to respect your Rules of Procedure and colleagues, to give Bosko Ristić the right to replicate and thus overcome this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15933	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15934	Mr. Angelkovic, this way of holding a session of the National Assembly is similar to this parliamentary majority. I know that you socialists in Serbia are allowed to do everything again, as it was while you were in power and I congratulate you on your success. But I believe that there is enough tolerance in you to give the members of the DS the right to sometimes respond to the word of insult, defamation, untrueness referred to from this pay phone at the expense of the president of the state, the Republic of Serbia and the MPs of the DS. I know it's good for you to listen and everything that's going on up there, you spit more on us. But one day you'll have to realize that it's not a solution, you'll have to get used to parliamentaryism, and you'll have to get used to hearing the other side, to hear people think differently. There's still a big delusion here, and it's time to hear it from this pay phone. From 2000 to today, Serbia's biggest mistake, Serbia's leadership, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, has been calling on Serbs to boycott elections in Kosovo and Metohija. This will tell you every serious man, every serious analyst and every serious acquaintance of the Kosovo-methological problem. Do not manipulate the question of Kosovo and Metohija, because you are in power enough already thanks to this manipulation and you are well enough to appreciate this manipulation. Have a little heart and understanding for the people who live downstairs. Have a little understanding about the situation this country is in. Don't be a hero from the pay phone, because as long as you're a hero from the pay phone and you fight with other leaderships, the people suffer. As politicians argue, the people run into confusion. While politicians are being bullied, the people are dying. That's how it's been since 1990, and now for the last straw of salvation you get caught, you from the ruling coalition, and you're trying the same rhetoric, the same vocabulary to apply to the question of Kosovo and Metohija and the question of Montenegro. I call you again, Mr. Vice President, honor the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure are above us, give Mr. Bosko Ristić the right to the line. He is an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15935	I thank Mr. Markovic. Otherwise, Mr. Bosko Ristic, read the Rules of Procedure. You can only come to the pay phone when the chairman invites you. Therefore, I ask you to sit in your bench and act as a MP in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, I saw your hand, slowly, nice, nice, just wait. Mr. Markovic, you have now misused the right to report for word. You have raised the Rules of Procedure and I have given you the right to report to the Rules of Procedure. You spoke of elections in Kosovo, where the president of the Republic violated the Assembly's decision and called on Serbs in Kosovo, although the assembly concluded otherwise. You violated the Rules of Procedure by speaking politically, not quoting a member of the Rules of Procedure who was violated here. So I ask that in the future, when you call upon the Rules of Procedure, you speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Second, the chairman, pursuant to Article 97, has the right to decide. In the case of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, which is spoken of as a replica, a decision shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly. I have made a decision, and when it comes to Mr. Zarko Obradovic's request to report for the replica after your discussion, and when it comes to MP Bosko Ristic to report for the replica, there is no basis for this, but we have moved on to the discussion. Since Mr. Bosko Ristic has reported to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to do so and will receive the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15936	This time, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I cannot address the Honorable Chairman because I cannot respect his usurpering behavior in the administration of the Assembly, the choice of favorites to give words...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15937	I am a mild cure compared to Natasa Micic. I held my hand for 20 minutes, answered my word, and she didn't notice me because I was short. Therefore, I am known as the most tolerated vice president here, but I must respect the Rules of Procedure. You learned the privilege of Miss Natasa Micic, and there is no such privilege here, only respect for the Rules of Procedure. So go back to your Rules of Procedure, and I'm not asking you to respect me. I'm asking you to respect each other. Here you go, Mr. Ristic. Here, I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15938	Mr. Chairman, if you want us to communicate in such a way, to drink coffee, we can chat in the way that you have made this conversation behind my back, which is inappropriate and the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is inappropriate in the Serbian Parliament. I would like to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 100, because you have jointly cooperated with the other MPs in an effort to prevent representatives of the Democratic Party from expressing their legitimate views in this House. You have allowed a series of insults to the Democratic Party and its president, and according to the president of the state, you have not responded, and you have been obliged by the Rules of Procedure to safeguard the integrity of the Assembly and of the people who are not presently in parliament, have not been able to deny from these speakers the lies they have heard from this speaker. That is why I expect you to call on the Rules of Procedure and to respect the Rules of Procedure in the future for all MPs in the same way. The Democratic Party is leading a consistent policy. The Democratic Party is in charge of reform policy. The Democratic Party advocates the principles of democracy in all spheres of life, including in this parliament. The speaker heard what Serbia would do to prevent a referendum in Montenegro, where Montenegrin citizens would plead their status. It says here that President Tadic and the Democratic Party have done nothing to prevent separatist aspirations in Montenegro. Please put that rhetoric from the 1990s out of force, off this pay phone. While some were guarding the former Yugoslavia, the great one and this SRJ, they saw what her fate was like. The methods of violence, the methods of majorisation, the method of unpreparedness to hear the voice of each individual in Serbia, Montenegro and the former Yugoslavia, says there is no democracy, there is no democracy. No final solutions imposed. Democracy means non-violent conflict resolution, co-existence resolution and a solution to interest in the way people should protect their interests, but also to protect the interests of the minority, if there is a majority who think differently. The protection of minorities is the principle of democracy. The Democratic Party advocates amendments to the Constitutional Charter, to enable co-existence and to allow normal democratic debate in the interests of citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15939	Mr. Ristic, you're out of time for the Rules of Procedure. Please finish. By the way, what you were saying, you were saying a line, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15940	In the end, I would like to seek the right to a replica under Article 100, since you have denied the right to respond to those who have attacked the Democratic Party and its president.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15941	I thank you, Mr. Ristic. Mr. Wolfie, Mr. Bradie, I don't see any reason for replication. For what? First, Mr. Obradovic did not insult the Democratic Party here, nor did he insult the president of the Republic of Serbia. I must say, as chairman, I would have intervened that Mr Obradovic personally insulted the president of the Republic of Serbia, but the presentation of various political views and disagreements with the views of the President of the Republic, I guess that's what parliament is for. It's impossible to accept such things as an insult. Therefore, there was no offense. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, but return to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, first Zarko Obradovic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15942	I went out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 97, because Mr. Ristic said that I used lies and said a number of more common propaganda passwords, which Democrats like to promote, and essentially do quite another. One of the sentences was democracy is non-violent conflict resolution. I will ask these advocates of non-violent conflict resolution, as they explain the claim by Germany's leading pi-ar company, on March 18th 2004, that it organised trips across Europe during the May 1999 aggression, at which their previous president, Mr Djindjic, together with Milo Djukanovic, spoke in favour of NATO aggression. It's a non-violent method of conflict resolution. Secondly, I invited Mr. Bogdanovic, and once again I call him to come out, let him tell us what he was saying here in Montenegro. If, as a member of the SPS, they can be confused, it is something you can understand, and you can think of the confusion only academic Tadic, as a member of the DS, who criticises this behaviour. Don't tell me going to a pre-election rally, which promotes independent Montenegro's policy, is not support for that policy. I've asked quite logical questions: does the Democratic Party say anything and do something else? Why? Because MPs, elected from the Democratic Party list -- Boris Tadic -- are also going to promote the idea of breaking Serbia and separating Montenegro. Mr Bogdanovic is one of them, Mr Svilanovic is the second, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korac. These are people who participate in such gatherings. These are the people who promote these ideas. This is not about the democratic way of solving the problem, but about ending affairs against Serbia-Montenegro. In no word did I mention it, nor did I say it had any intention to prevent any referendum. On the contrary, I kept using the expression that these amendments buy time to solve the problem. Because you recognize yourself in some sentences, there's nothing I can do, but none of the words spoken were offensive. On the contrary, it was based on what the representatives of the Democratic Party claimed and what the media had conveyed. Please respond whether it's true or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15943	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15944	I'm sorry if Mr. Ristic told you to lie, but then you shouldn't have said what you just said, because Mr. Ristic was absolutely right, because there's no need to come out and repeat it. As for the newspaper inscriptions, Mr. Obradovic, we once had a controversy about newspaper inscriptions, it was about your party colleagues, and then we concluded together that newspaper writings are not exactly a well-timed way to conduct a discussion here. You can write all sorts of things in the paper, and you know well that everything you've been saying here about the late Serbian prime minister is a harsh lie, like when you were in power, I don't know what you've been saying, as well as the fairies on Lake Geneva. As far as you are concerned, Mr. Chairman, you have in one incorrect way refalsled the public and this National Assembly. You and I have discussed on a TV show what this National Assembly has established about Kosovo and Metohija and how much it has to do with calling for Serbs to go to elections. Mr Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia, has in no way violated a single decision by this National Assembly. That has to be clear. You cannot justify your wrong political assessment in the matter of going to the elections of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija by now insulting the president of your country. That's when you made a mistake and admit it. A poor estimate was, the absence of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija damaged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Republic of Serbia in international relations, and relative to the fate of KIM. Do not try to hide your poor political assessment by insulting the president of all of us, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15945	First, I have to answer to Mr. Markovic. If this is a bad decision to invite Serbs not to go to elections -- all political parties, except the president of the Republic, then it is even worse to call on Serbs to go to the polls in 2002, because it has proved completely insane. After that, we were given March 17th. So in 2002, Serbs were invited to go to the polls of all political parties, and then Serbs received March 17th as a result of the election. So, Mr. Markovic, these are facts and there's no reason to be convinced of that. That's what history is about. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure who wants a word? Mr. Markovic, you have no right to a replica, I had to answer you. First, Mr. Vukic has a replica, then Mr. Ristic, then Obradovic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15946	Thank you for giving me your word. I was misread, I had the right to a replica, as I see no reason to avoid the right to a replica of the Democratic Party's representatives. It's good to get out, to have everyone say, and to have opinions and arguments face up to this pay phone here. Mr Ristic said, alluding to what I was talking about, that we should join together and unite to prevent a referendum in Montenegro. That's not what I was saying, Mr. Ristic. I said we should help or do anything to oppose, at least in the media, the requests for independence of Montenegro. I pointed to over 500 billboards, distributed all over Montenegro, which advertised by our website. cnevolence.com at every turn. I was talking about the participation of your representatives, particularly the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and he knew what he was taking part in, in the direct election campaign of the Democratic Party of Socialists, therefore, the separatist political party, the separatist political option, that is the option that wants to destroy the state union, not the common state, because you have destroyed the common state earlier. So they want to destroy the state community. You show up at their meetings, and Nenad Bogdanović shows up at the final meeting, I don't know what quality. But I have to tell you, what's quite clear is that this time, in your party, Dad is right. Dad Ljuba said publicly that he couldn't agree with those attitudes, that he was looking for a re-examination, and I'm sure Dad knows better what kind of policy it should be. Looks like you guys aren't running the policy your dad's looking for. Dad's looking for one policy towards Montenegro, and you're running another policy towards Montenegro. You run such a policy in Serbia as well. Dad's asking that there be no crime and no thieving, and you, of course, are the opposite of what Dad said. As for co-existence, I don't know what it means to you, we're talking about the state, I don't mind what Mr. Bogdanovic will use and abuse his television without the right to answer, so absolutely without the right to answer, to insult me, to call me the worst names, to do so. I love it when we can exchange arguments in this assembly, as the MPs do, in order to be logical, natural and normal, gentlemen, human, honorably and responsibly - to tell each other in person. And I didn't invite Studio B to tell you what I was thinking, to insult the way I thought of it. Don't accidentally invite someone to answer or say a word to the contrary. (President: Mr. Wolf, I must warn you in time. Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. You're absolutely right. I would ask you in the future, at a time when the representatives of the Democratic Party or any other party speak, do not speak from there, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just talking about not being inconsistencies, but on the one hand you're talking about how you're for the preservation of the state community, and on the ground, you're doing everything you can to break the state community. You're doing everything you can to get Montenegro out of the state community. You do everything you can to defile the public of Serbia. That's what wrong politics is, and that's what we're fighting. As far as we're concerned, you're moving us: you're talking like you're in the '90s, you're talking like you're in the Middle Ages, like in the old century. I'll tell you one thing, which is most important, which Guy II said back in ancient Rome, so you can tell me, he's back several eras. He said, "Freedom is one of the most disturbing things." That seems to be what you in the Democratic Party forget, except from time to time you go to Pale, turn the ox; except from time to time you burn the American flag in front of the American reading room; except from time to time you do a similar thing, and then you ask for it to be forgotten. And we come to you as someone who binds himself to the old century, to the Middle Ages, or I don't know what. That's all I had to tell you. (President: Mr. Wolfie, thank you. Mr. Angelkovic, I'm done. Do not speak to us, as most in the Serbian Parliament, for the simple reason that we are not afraid of choices. On the contrary, we look forward to them, and in these elections we will defeat you together - both you and them, and bring Serbia what is needed today, and these are changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15947	Mr. Markovic, Mr. Ristic, I did, but here's Mr. Markovic's memory of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15948	I didn't think of the Rules of Procedure, but I must say, as of yesterday I became very concerned about the Rules of Procedure, when I saw Mr. Zarko Obradovic defending every point of the Rules of Procedure, so I decided to defend him myself. And to repeat what Mr. Zarko Obradovic told me yesterday, and now I'm telling you, Mr. Angelkovic: if you have something to say to the MPs, stop for a pay phone and speak, don't comment on any of our statements, go ahead for a pay phone and say what you have, and don't abuse the post of vice president of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15949	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, but unfortunately when you say and come out here, you didn't say which member I broke, and I have an obligation, when you warn the Rules of Procedure, by the Rules of Procedure to explain whether the Rules of Procedure have been broken or not. Now you remember when you sat in the second row that it was article 100, and you violated the Rules of Procedure with the fact that you called the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't say which member. It is my duty to explain to you whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not, and I do. Now let's get back to the order of the replicas. The word is Mr. Bosko Ristic, a replica, and I hope he respects the Rules of Procedure as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15950	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appear by the right to the replica, because with the name and last name mentioned, and otherwise I am also a representative of the DS, which is mentioned several times today in a negative context, primarily by Mr Obradovic. The question has been asked, is the DS for the state union and for the Serbia-Montenegro community that is leading us to Europe. So I explicitly say from this pay phone, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the DS, which I represent here today in parliament, that DS is defined as the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We advocated it when we redefine relations in the SRJ and when we defined the state union, respecting the political interests of many political legitimate groups in both Serbia and Montenegro, and above all those in the parliamentary parties in Serbia-Montenegro. You asked me how it was possible for the DS to stand up for the state union and its representatives to appear at the pre-election myths of the DPS. Those two things aren't directly related. If so, as some representatives of the ruling coalition smiled thunderously from the bench, I ask how you support the G17 Plus government, which also advocates separatist Serbia, for independent Serbia. How you support such a G17 Plus government policy, which has its own programme for independent Serbia. Is that political hypocrisy? Is that consistency? Why don't you deny them support if you care about the state community. Show yourselves at work. Say, we will not go with the G17 plus that advocates separatist Serbia, which advocates separate roads to Europe between Serbia and Montenegro. Where's the consistency? All those who appear with such false dilemmas, with a replacement of thesis, who do not recognise European and democratic standards and who do not recognise DS's right to free political action and express their political views, are not democratically defined. They're just trying to hide behind a so-called democratic cloak. As long as they do not distance themselves from the crime policy, from the policy of suffering, from Serbia's policy of dragging into conflicts with the world and its neighbours, they are not sincere and not consistent. As long as the leaders charged with war crimes follow, as long as the leaders charged with killings in Serbia are not honest and consistent. As long as they don't break that direct link with such people and with such ideology, they're not democratic conversationaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15951	Mr. Ristic, thank you. The Replic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word Mr. Shormaz, and I will answer you, Mr. Ristic, when I get out of the chair. By the way, I'm a little older man, Mr. Markovic, I can't keep walking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15952	Of course, Article 100. I'm one of those guys who smiled in a loud way as Mr. Ristic said earlier, so I didn't bring a tie to put it on, can I, no problem, because I don't mind a tie, and when I do, and when I don't have it, I can talk to it very easily, especially you from the DS. Namely, G17 Plus has its position, but G17 Plus nothing works actively to make Montenegro independent. The moment they go to support the separatists, as your representatives went on the campaign, surely we will no longer be in power with them. What you're saying is one thing is a political attitude, and the other is what you do in the field. You're hypocrites and you're doing the opposite of what you're saying you're doing, that's one. Two, if really, let's say, Boris Tadic wasn't there to support him, and I believe he was, because there are people who have been campaigning and seen him, and I know he was in Milocer and I know he's been in other places, I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the first rebalancing, that we raise Mr Tadic's salary so he can go normally to the sea, not at the expense of Milo Djukanovic, and that he represents Serbia properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15953	Mr. Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15954	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, and it's the dignity of the National Assembly, and if you want the dignity of a significant parliamentary group, and that's the G17 plus. Mr. Ristic, I really ask you not to use the name of the party G17 plus in such a way for your mutual controversy with other political parties. The word separatism was not mentioned or used by any member of the G17 Plus. So if you're having trouble using an adequate dictionary, just concentrate a little bit and think about it, and then say something too much. I must tell you that what's in the light of our proposal a few months ago and you mentioned at the pay phone in the opening statement, because we suggested that the Constitutional Charter be changed. So why? Because the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is not functional, it does not work in a good way. We voted here in the Serbian Parliament against direct elections for the state union and clearly presented the G17 Plus programme, the state programme of European Serbia, under the slogan "Serbia First". We have the right to do so, and we do it in an appropriate and dignified way. We also said the reason why the Constitutional Charter should change by moving the date of the direct elections, because these are pragmatic and practical facts, is the practical state of functioning of the state community. You know when the term of office ended and all of this was clearly and loudly stated. I won't be a bother that however you want to continue each other's polemics, don't mention the name G17 plus, because we're never in any other direction in any way to mention us in such a light. What's important is that G17 plus is not an opponent to better functioning institutions. On the contrary, we are the builders of institutions and all we do is make the state functional in any way, although we have many arguments that it is not, and we do everything we do to show in Serbia that it is important to build strong and firm institutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15955	I thank you, Mr. Albianic. The replica was answered by Mr. Obradovic. Mr. Markovic, I'll replicate to you when I get out of here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15956	I'm glad none of the colleagues from the DS MPs who went out for this pay phone tried to disprove any of the allegations I made here. It says that in fact there are no arguments, but simply empty politics and an empty story. And you know how, when you don't have any arguments, then we go far and wide, and you turn your attention over some other topic and there's some general stories being told. One thing I understand here is that we MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not, and in no context, mention the president of DS Boris Tadic. Why? Because he's obviously protected as a white bear and we can't mention anything. I was very decadent, I said that the former DOS called to go to the election and that it was a mistake, and some of them admitted it. That a new mistake had been made by Boris Tadic as Serbia's president, as he urged Serbs to go to elections for Kosovo institutions and helped Peterson submit this report to the Security Council. For nothing, it's facts. He mentioned something else that you didn't mention and you didn't give me an answer. He said -- if within 90 days it's not that, that, that and that, I'll do it and that. Why don't you tell us what he did? Of course there was nothing, but that promise, like many other pre-election promises, remained an empty letter on paper. When you speak and try to explain this relationship between the DS and the DPS in Montenegro, come on, I may not understand, I am too biased, but let me quote the position of DS member and president of the Council for the Common State of Serbia-Montenegro, academician Ljuba Tadic: "Being a common state and supporting you in Montenegro is pointless." So you explain to your people, you don't have to tell me and the National Assembly, because Serbian citizens know how things are. And those stories about the past, and you're this, and you're what, people, now in 2005, May 30, you were unlimited authority, so when you were able to file criminal charges for some socialist stove, don't God forbid any of us were involved in some criminal shop or something called murder. We'd hang out. What a story, it's empty stories, which are unfortunately fantastically media-exploited and day-to-day you're telling the same story. Why don't you mention the other side of the medal? Why don't you mention that you robbed Serbia through privatisation? A thousand of the best companies for two billion. Why don't you mention 13,000 people arrested without a court ruling, why don't you mention a democratic way of solving the problem, bombing the country? Talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15957	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Nikolic, you're right, all rare animals are protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15958	I think the chairman should ask someone to replace him for a little rest, because I don't know what this remark meant that all rare animals were protected and to whom they were concerned. Be brave and tell who you referred to and show your attitude towards the state and its institutions. Here we advertise Article 100, because Mr. Obradovic, despite his efforts and what he kindly wants, always, as well as Mr. Shormaz, harms the dignity of the National Assembly by his appearance behind the pay phone. Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Boris Tadic is the president of the Republic of Serbia. We talked about the political attitude towards the Serb exit in the Kosovo and Metohija elections. The position of the DS and the President of the Republic was that the elections should be held. If Serbs go to those elections and make up 25% of the Kosovo and Metohija parliament, as far as they could make them go to the polls, President Boris Tadic said -- in that case we can discuss certain standards that need to be met, and the deadline has been set - 90 days. How can you turn things around so incorrectly now? The Serbs did not go to the elections, and you are asking for Mr Boris Tadic to keep his promises. That's not right. That's not even logically normal, so how do you expect President Boris Tadic to talk about what he put on the assumption that Serbs go to the polls. Or it's only important to spit on the president of Serbia and spit on his own country. How much longer? You think we can't do that by Vojislav Kostunica, and Vojislav Kostunica is the Prime Minister. Can't we do that by the heads of the parliamentary groups here? But they represent the citizens. We can't do that to our own country. How much longer? We're stuck in the mud, so much we've thrown mud on each other, we'll never see each other again from that mud. The second question is, what is this way for you to comment on the period from 2000 to 2003? I can ask you, Mr. Obradic, during the rule of the SPS, that, that and that, the columns of refugees. On RTS, it's like a collective wedding, and at the same time, a column of refugees from Knin goes and gets bombed by Croatian planes. It was your rule. I'm not saying that you bombed, that you were letting go, but the same question is the objective responsibility of the party that was then in power, as there is an objective responsibility of the party that was in power during another period, as there is an objective responsibility of the current party in power for some of the events in this country. Then, at the time of those 10 years, there were sanctions, and bombings, and murders that were not solved. And 29 murders were solved in that action by Sabela. You're so busy attacking Sabela's action that I sometimes wonder if you're sorry that 29 murders were solved. (President: Mr. Markovic, time. I'm done. Was there an abuse in Sabela's action? It probably is. Of course it was, 20,000 people participated. You have abuse on the municipal counter when you show up, not where 20,000 people are involved. But you can't because of one percent of the abuse that the whole action, the first serious attempt by the state to counter organized crime, as you wish, to the extent that you compromise, to the extent that you take all the people involved, to arrest those who led the action. Who will be brave in this country tomorrow to stand up to organized crime? What prosecutor's gonna be able to run something tomorrow? We're destroying our own country this way, Mr. Obradich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15959	Mr. Markovic, four minutes have passed. And I interrupted Mr. Obradovic in three minutes and six seconds. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure must be respected. You have the right to your time, so pick up the phone and then use it. When it comes to Article 100, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. None of these three views were used by any of the previous debaters, and I didn't realize that someone had asked to vote on it. So just because someone doesn't like the political attitude, it's a matter of discussion according to the agenda within the time someone has. I pray that all MPs have that in mind and use it, because it seems that some of them serve here in the 100th, when they have no arguments to answer for a word, then Article 100. The president of the assembly, the chairman, is obliged to give an explanation afterwards, if any. If, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the MP may request that it be put to the vote. But, Mr. Markovic, I have to give you that explanation, when it comes to the Serb elections, these are different political views. I have to, you said there was a broken Rules of Procedure in Article 100, because someone here was talking about a different position of the president of the Republic to invite Serbs to the elections. Otherwise, I have to tell you, it's not true that the Serbs didn't go to the election. The Serbs went to the polls, only 0.03%. It is not true that there is no one in power from Serbs in Kosovo, you have that Petkovic. Therefore, someone has listened, I speak with argument and truth, and there is no injured Rules of Procedure. So I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to respect the members, that if there are any injuries to the Rules of Procedure we report to the team, and if there is someone who is injured personally, he can report for the replica, then I will give it. Let's get back to the subject. Mr. Obradovic, replica, Mr. Shormaz, replica. Mr. Krasic, I'm really sorry, you've been waiting for the word for 45 minutes, it's one school class, but what do I do to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15960	I signed up for a replica by article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since it is obvious that representatives of the DS would be most suited not to say anything and not to mention at all that they were power, and especially how they exercised power. So it should not be mentioned that Boris Tadic, the president of Serbia, has called on Serbs to vote because it disturbs the man. What's the matter? It's tearing his integrity down. We must not mention that he promised Serbian citizens during that call for certain things that he did not meet, as many other things from the election campaign. Why? Because to him, like DS, it's generally just marketing that matters. And so it was about privatisation, thousands of companies, two billion euros, and the best companies. And no one alive believes that there is a better life, just them, the media and the Aca. And that's why Mile Isaac's in that DOS book says they've been invited to refer to to convince the people to live better, because the people don't know how to live better. And that's DS policy, just marketing, and when you have media, anything is possible. Why didn't you here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accept the proposal to form a survey board and to see who is smuggling tobacco in this country and who is gaining wealth? Why didn't you accept the proposal to form a survey board to determine who was standing, who ordered and how the murder of Curuvia was committed? Why didn't you accept the numerous other proposals of the former opposition and when you were in power? Don't replace thesis. I asked here when the last meeting was, the first meeting of the DS, I asked the then Prime Minister, why the state did not approach the arrest of persons who were recorded and were an integral part of the White Paper made by the MUP, and neither did the Prime Minister, nor did the minister answer. If they had the data 10 months before that, what were they waiting for? It's true, there was a lot of crime and state, and you can't get in and then you arrest your people, and you work against yourself. And at the time of "Sabre" you arrested 13,000 people without the court's decision, not to mention annul the Constitution. This splendour of emergency; Kennedy was killed in America, so no state of emergency was introduced, and you introduced a state of emergency to deal with political opponents. You know the MUP issued a statement, and no one knows who signed it until today, they say, killing for the needs of the SPS and the radicals. Of course, but it was on behalf of the state. That's the state they created. So we can't mention any of that. And why is that? So they don't feel bad, so the citizens of Serbia don't know what was going on. No, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and as MPs in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to say, and especially to respond to these false accusations that are being brought before us. I use that right of business and defend integrity, and my MP groups, and logically myself personally. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15961	Wait a minute, you were looking for a replica, but Mr. Milan Markovic was looking for the Rules of Procedure, he has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15962	Mr. Obradovic (it seems he's out, and you're not, you're here, it's okay then), you seem to forget how this discussion started. This discussion, yesterday I chaired, began by talking about amendments to the Constitutional Charter. The mandated DS representative, Mr. Bosko Ristic (Article 100, was injured by the way Mr. Obradovic was exposed) and presented the DS position, Mr. Obradovic, and then everyone in this room, all MP groups went out and started attacking DS on different grounds, starting with why DS co-operates with political parties in Budva, and beyond. So that's how it started and don't change the thesis. The other thing, no one to you, Mr. Obradovic, is stopping you from mentioning Mr. Boris Tadic. What makes you think anyone can defend you? I don't agree with the method, the way you do it, because it's extremely malicious. When you spoke of "Sabreya", I'll tell you immediately about malice, in "Sabre" you'll mention one or two percent of mistakes or abuses, and you'll always talk about it. You'll never tell what's good from the first attempt by the state to seriously deal with organized crime, what's good? It's enough that 29 murders are lit up. If that's not good for you, good for you, that looks like an SPS. Now I'm glad you've finally discovered yourself. And I'll say something else about it, you say everyone here, about a common state with Montenegro. You care about the state in common, and how - by insulting Milo Djukanovic, by insulting the organs, legally and legitimately elected authorities of Montenegro. Is that how we fight for the common state? Is this how if an DS representative goes to the DPS, the ruling party in Montenegro, to accuse him here, for two days you do nothing but mention Nenad Bogdanovic. Let the SNP call us, we'll leave too. We'll talk to every political factor in Montenegro, and our job, since we're politicians, is to build bridges. Remember, Mr. Obradovic, your party led Serbia, as Serbia passed an attempt to impose leadership on other republics. We can't impose leadership on anyone. If you care about Montenegro, if you care about the citizens of Montenegro, respect their express will, their representatives, as much as we do not love them. No one here must love Filip Vujanovic or Milo Djukanovic, but our people living in Montenegro chose them and we from this pay phone should address them with respect. That's how a common state is built, that's how friends are made, and that's the only chance that this country stays in the community with Serbia. What was the goal of 1990, so this time there was an infamous ending, we're learning from our own mistakes, we're supposed to do different, we're supposed to build bridges. And Mr Nenad Bogdanovic will go again, at the invitation of the SNP, and the DPS, and any party in Montenegro, Croatia, anywhere to build bridges. When politicians fight, politicians don't get hurt, people get hurt. Not the politicians from this pay phone in 1990 and some years, you talking about what's now being heard, being in hiding, not their children being killed by the battlefields, not their children being crippled, not the poor, most of them getting rich in those 10 years, the people getting hurt. When we fight, people get hurt. The DS is not a party that will argue with others in Serbia and out of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15963	Just a moment, we have the replicas, Dragan Šormaz, and Zoran Angelkovic has also asked for a replica; in turn for some, Zoran Angelkovic, then Dragan Šormaz, and Zarko Obradovic. And Angelkovic is looking for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15964	And the Replic and the Rules of Procedure, I reported to everyone, because I didn't want to use the chair seat, and I promised Mr. Markovic I'd pick up by the Rules of Procedure and by the replica. You know what, I understand that people have the right to change their political attitude, it's good when they change it positively. It's bad when they change it backwards. I understand, and Milo Djukanovic was the largest Yugoslav, bigger than all of us here, and he's even bigger Yugoslav than me, and that's why I brought him, I mean the presidency of Yugoslavia, because he was a great Yugoslav. But the man is on a separatist path. And I understand, he has the right to be a separatist. When I go a little deeper into the whole story, then I realize that the services of Milo Djukanovic, who gave them while they were opposition and while they were sitting on St. Stefan and planning October 5th, cannot be easily forgotten. They can't forget the financial or any other aid they were in that period. Now you can take pictures with the separatists downstairs. I don't mind talking to them. Of course you need to talk to both separatists in Montenegro and people who think differently. But when you go to support that policy, you objectively support the breaking of the state community. That for breaking up the state community, gentlemen of the DS, you showed by breaking up the SRJ. We were against breaking SRJ. And we said then that the Constitutional Charter was creating a quasistate that wouldn't work. These amendments are some small repair, as far as we can, to give our hand. You've ruined the SNP, they've come in because of the petty authority, to do a little bit of washing. You dragged them into power then, and you ruined us, and you ruined them, you ruined that pro-Yugoslav or common opposition in Montenegro, and all because of your personal interests, so that you might have some interest in it and take pictures there. Take all the photos you want, just say you support the Separatist policy of the DPS. Say it publicly in Serbia, but don't talk in Serbia one thing and another in Montenegro. You remember some of them in Australia were saying something, so they thought it wouldn't come out here. That's how you go to Budva and you don't think you'll find out in Belgrade and Serbia what you're talking about and what you stand for. You're here to break the state, to know your policy, not to tell me about constitutional amendments and the Constitutional Charter, and you're against the common state, that's what you've shown. We kept that country together, the way it is, with the SNP, but it worked. Of course, we have also preserved Kosovo within Serbia. You are now invoking yourself, and you were drilling into your chest for three years while you were in power, at Resolution 1244. If it hadn't been for the bombing, there would have been no Resolution 1244. If we had signed an agreement in Rambuje, there would have been a referendum in Kosovo in 2002, so Kosovo would be independent, and now there would be no story of Tadic or anyone. We got the bombing to preserve our territory. That people and that army that don't defend their country, that's neither a nation nor a state. Those soldiers who defended the state were honorary soldiers, and you find them guilty from this pay phone. The same way you did Sabre, as you say you lit up 29 cases. "Sabre" isn't the case. It's the court. That's your call. You've been acting so hard for three years, the executive authority is the same as the court. "Sabbe" has arrested 12,000 people, she said she has data on 29 cases to solve, and the court needs to finish. You're still claiming that you solved 29 cases. (President: Time.) ) Jaruzelski arrested 7,000 people in five times Poland, with all the demonstrations that were. You arrested 12,000 people. In Chile, Pinochet, as the greatest dictator, arrested 7,000 people, and you arrested 12,000. In the press release against a Soviet Union, 11,000 people were arrested, and you arrested 12,000 people. Shut up, hide, and don't talk about "Sablja" anymore, because it's a shame for the Serbian people, not just for you for making "Sablja" and arresting 12,000 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15965	Since abuse occurs when they are called to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Shormaz has been waiting longer, if you will, and you can appeal to the Rules of Procedure. The replica? Then you'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15966	I appeal to the first position of Article 100 because it is necessary to respect the dignity of the congregation. The presentation of Mr. Markovic injured the dignity of the National Assembly, by knowingly and intentionally twisted words and the thesis of the debaters yesterday and today. I'm one of those guys whose words are twisted, and that's why I feel the need to react. As far as I followed this discussion, no one here has disputed the legality and legitimacy of the Mil Djukanovic regime in Montenegro, nor has anyone called for the collapse of the regime, as you say, Mr Markovic. No one's slowed down the DS's right to lead the policy they want to lead. We told you yesterday it was your right. But don't give us anything else. We only say that what you claim is impossible – that you are fighting for the common state and that you are participating in the election meetings of the Mil Djukanovic coalition. That's impossible, and that's what your member and father of your party president tell you. That's what the public says. So don't plant any cowardly eggs here and don't doubt our common sense. Finely state whether you are for the common state, but in parts, not words, as Mr. Ristic does. You said that three years ago, so you respected the terms of the Charter - indirect elections. That's what you said when the Law was passed on the election of MPs in 2003, and you stole mandates. You have a nonstop, when it comes to common states, conflict between words and deeds. You claim to be for the common state, and you do everything you can to tear this country apart. That's the essence of your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15967	The word has an MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15968	I have a replica of Mr. Markovic's presentation, who mentioned me personally and who said that my very appearance here is an insult to the Parliament's dignity. He's got a stenogram, Mr. Markovic, so we'll see. If he meant the tie, I would now tell him that MPs from the DS, colleagues from Kruševac, colleagues from Leskovec, my colleague from Smederev, also had no tie, and they came to the National Assembly. That's one. Two, a tie is a Croatian invention, if you didn't know. Maybe as a Serbian nationalist, I don't like wearing a tie for those reasons. Under three, I saw the president of the state of Boris Tadic in countless TV ties without ties, when he walks and pets children on the head, and of course he does nothing, and he likes to talk. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Markovic. I don't care that Mr. Boris Tadic is the president of the state. I appreciate that. You know he would never have been president of the state if the DSS hadn't backed him in those run-off elections. You have to respect that thing. But when Boris Tadic does the opposite of a unanimous decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is a problem for the state, regardless of what he is president. Someone might call it a second term, I won't, but what he did is contrary to a unanimous decision, which you voted for, which he also voted for, because he wasn't the President of the Republic at the time, was an MP here, when that government declaration was adopted or what we had already adopted for Kosovo and Metohija. So, you know very well, and don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. Say clearly, as counterpart Vukosav Tomaševic said earlier, what are senior DS officials, one of them Belgrade Mayor, the other president of the Republic, asking for in the DPS campaign, unless they went to their expense to bathe and sunbathe. If they are, I say again, there will be budget rebalances, we will raise the salary to the President of the Republic, and it is no problem, they will be able to go from their salary to the sea, not only to Montenegro, but also to Bodrum, if they wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15969	Mr. Markovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15970	Mr. Shormaz, I explained everything you said earlier. Normally, you have a majority in parliament and you can always get out more. I've got ten of you coming out on my show, and I'm gonna do it again. I'm sorry my arguments weren't enough for you and your predecessor to understand. So, as DS, we stand at the point that with the legal and legitimate authorities of the Republic of Montenegro, there must be co-operation, that bridges must be built. Experience shows that when executives argue, the people suffer. As far as my observation of your personality is concerned, if that's what it sounded like, I deeply apologize to you. I don't think you're any insult, as it turned out. I think you're an honorary fellow MP, like everyone in this House. I would like you to note the insults not only when they refer to you personally, but when, let's say, your colleague Mika Vlaovic yesterday insults the entire parliamentary group of DS, estimating their honor. So, once again, I want to tell you that if you consider yourself offended, accept my sincerest apologies. I had no intention of hurting your personality. I find your exposure still incorrect, because it refers to the twisting of the thesis and what I said. You don't want to accept the arguments and face them. My God, in the end, it's part of the political scene and the political vocabulary that exists here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15971	The word has an MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15972	Dear fellow Members of the People, I report to the Rules of Procedure, using the right to reply, since I was mentioned by Mr Markovic a few minutes ago. Obviously, there was a misreading, deliberate misreading, and an attempt to replace the thesis, because Mr Markovic mentioned a policy of imposing a solution from the 1990s, which, according to our country, did not produce results and this policy has failed. I have to say, and this is the SPS's position, that we, first of all, are the ruling party then, are ready to absolutely determine all the circumstances and facts of what happened to us in the 1990s. We think it's bad for the country, for the people to use these demagogue thesis as represented by a colleague. This is how all that policy, which was led against us in the 1990s, sanctions, bombings, is amnested by Germany, which first supported Croatia and Slovenia for its secessionist policy, is amnesty and Vatican, America and the European Union. All those who bombed us and all those who did what they did to us in the 1990s. I'm telling you one more time, we're ready to talk about all the topics, but we're asking that exactly, when it comes out for this pay phone, we're talking about Markals, about Vasa Miskina Street, about Srebrenica, and about Račka, and all the crimes that have been committed and used as a cause, whether for an attack on our country, or for an attack on a political party. We are not running away from investigating the murder of Curuvia, Pantic and others. I asked one logical question, if the state of Serbia had a white book in June 2002 containing all data on criminal groups in Serbia, why did it not apply the state mechanism and why did these people not bring them to justice? Why? Because there was a crime and a state plot, so there couldn't be a cut. Now to shed crocodile tears over that story that it couldn't. It could, but it didn't want to. I mentioned only by the way, Mr Djukanovic, but in the context of the allegations I quoted here, that he, along with the president of your party in 1999, promoted politics in Europe that Serbia should be bombed. It was politics back then, and it can't be forgotten. If you can answer, and if you can't keep your mouth shut, but don't lecture us here on morality and justice. During Sablje, 13,000 people were arrested. We're talking about the fact that during Sabre people were arrested without a court ruling, that Sabela was used for political persecution of political opponents. The SPS Vice-President, a member of the Executive Board, has been arrested. Why? There, someone from DOS wanted to be arrested. No one is questioning the results of Sablje, but we want Sablja to be spoken of objectively, to see what the essence of Sablje is: what we claim to be is the cause that political opponents of punishment, or what else, to blur the eyes of the public and that what the Democratic Party is doing is manifesting marketingly as some success.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15973	Mr. Bosko Ristic, Mr. Mika Vlaovic. Two replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15974	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just got back from the back row, I first picked up the line, and I think the chairman rightly gave me his word. Several questions have been raised here again, whether the Democratic Party for the state union is for a political community with the people of Montenegro. Again, I Decededely declare, on behalf of and on behalf of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party considers Serbia-Montenegro's state union to be the best legal-political framework for Serbia-Montenegro to be part of European integration. We believe that this is the best means to implement European values and European objectives that are woven into the motto of creating the Constitutional Charter of the State Community. We have insisted on these political positions since the start of the creation of the state union, from the proposal of the Constitutional Charter and the law for its implementation in this House, to the vote and to the gathering of all the political forces that the Democratic Party then had the influence to support the Constitutional Charter, so that it could gain a majority in this House. A question has been raised about the presence of our members at some pre-election meetings. Again, I would like to say to a colleague who has just asked the question of political consistency, how we advocate the common state, and we have been through our representatives in the party's pre-election campaign, which has the promotion of an independent Montenegro. Again, I would like to ask this very MP, my colleague from the DSS, why he is sitting in the government with a party that has independent Serbia in its programme. Does this mean that the party, with whom they sit in the coalition, has given up its political programme or that it has a false political programme, and that their political action is falling away from their false political programme? Where's the truth and honesty? If we were to falsely ask dilemmas, such a question could also provide a false answer. I just want to say that every state-run party, every political party in this parliament, which cares about the state of Serbia, its territorial integrity, will see that it is pragmatically acting and seeking political opportunities for a common political life with Montenegro, with the citizens of Montenegro, in order to achieve our political interests. There is no political party here that advocates Serbia's breaking up and breaking up the state community in a way where citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Montenegro would be damaged. It is legitimate to seek a more favourable path, a faster and easier way to achieve political goals, which requires Serbian citizens to provide a better life and better protection of their rights, of course through developed democratic and depolitic institutions. Serbian citizens will recognize what political parties are trying to achieve party influences directly towards state institutions. The bombing was mentioned earlier, sanctions were mentioned, some political representatives were asked to continue bombings towards Serbia. I'm saying it's a notorious lie. There is no citizen of Serbia who sat here under bombs and who advocated an extension of the bombing, thus resolving political conflicts. I'd also like to say that on the scene, there's a method of retaliating against political insolents, where, say, bombings and disagreements with these bombings are mentioned. In Valjev, a man is proposed to the President of the District Court, playing the Obradovic case as Zarko Obradovic, who spoke before me, who tried Clinton, Blair and others the way it was done. If it's the return of that policy, I disagree.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15975	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15976	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a serious man of the serious political party, I ask you, who have I offended yesterday? I'm certainly not a Democratic Party. Individuals from the Democratic Party telling the truth, which is true, I have not offended. I said you had honorable men to come out, if they were to honor us here and give us a sermon, and don't let the gentlemen here give us a sermon from the people who stole the parliamentary mandates, who waved plane tickets. You're transferring who we're in the coalition with. Who are you in Vojvodina with in the coalition? With the League of Social Democrats, who did not enter the Republic Assembly. Your President of the Vojvodina Executive Council was also involved in the theft of parliamentary mandates and in the waving of plane tickets. Is that the best you've got in Vojvodina? One more thing to tell you, I've been watching the Assembly since 2000, and I thought, when the new option came to power, that as a farmer, I should retire and do my job that I did. You haven't fulfilled my wishes, and I'm back in politics. This is where you kept talking, when someone comes out to discuss the amendment, about some law, you from the Democratic Party are reformers, and everyone else is the brakes of the reform. Who's the reformer now and who's the driver of reform? We, even though we were brakers, got a feasibility study in less than a year, and you didn't do it in three years. Your greatest success is supporting the thieving in Vojvodina, supporting various mob groups. It's your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15977	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15978	Whoever supports it, it's hard to determine. I see that you support some who answer to the Special Court for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, at least that's what the public looks like. I watched on one television one interesting show, where there were two dolls, one of your top presidents, Kostunica, and the other one's a very good police minister. These two dolls sang happily about March 12th, etc. So don't talk about crime. I honestly think it is your party that will have to think deeply and determine the role of some of your leaders in dealing with crime in Serbia. But does Reverend Mika Vlaovic here speak of the honor of the People's MPs from the Democratic Party? Is this the honorary Mika Vlaovic who here knowingly destroyed parliamentaryism in the most harsh way possible, voting for the falsification of the Labour Act? Isn't that what you're ashamed of? Are you allowed here to swear on your children that you didn't vote for a fake? You deliberately falsified the Labour Act. You all know that. There are no MPs in this assembly who do not know that you are forgers. You stole Ljubisa Djokovic's mandate. Did Dragan Jocic sign the first theft of the mandate to Ljubisa Slavkovic? How can you not be ashamed? You of the DSS think we're so kind, which we won't say is that we're weak. You are the greatest hypocrites of the Serbian political scene. What's your policy? The democratic party of Serbia is honorable, watch out for the honorable party, which is a virtue -- they can be with everyone. The party can go with everyone. You're very honorable. Who about what? The DSS about honesty. What honesty? Which thieves in Vojvodina? Let me tell you about the thieves in Belgrade. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15979	The word has Dusan Prophetic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15980	I don't know why you're nervous. Everything in Serbia is under control. Don't get upset, it's bad for your health. Dragan Jocic did not take the term of office of Mr. Slavkovic. The Democratic Party of Serbia stole MP Djokovic's mandate. It was the intensity of the second parliamentary group, but since you're still watching dolls, since you're still visiting the puppet theater, you're informing yourself through puppet shows, not through some more serious media, something else I couldn't hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15981	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15982	I thank, first of all, Mr. Vlaovic, who allowed me, although we also reported to the Rules of Procedure, I take the first word. I'm reporting under article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a People's MP, and I remind you that it is a basic dignity, a dignity that rests on the job. This assembly is responsible enough by all MPs to do their job. It is our job to make sure that the laws are passed, that they are implemented and that we are able to ensure stability in society. For that reason, once again, I insist we return to the debate. We've heard a lot of things here we know. As far as we know, the citizens voted and elected this assembly. That's perfectly clear, and there's no reason why we're fighting today. It's our duty to keep working. I pray that, with upset passions, according to the Rules of Procedure, we chair to pause for an hour and then proceed with what is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15983	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is hard to hurt a member of the 100th and dignity of the National Assembly by exhibiting Mr Markovic, as well as Mr Ristic, of course. I mean Mr. Markovic from the Democratic Party. I'm 43 years old, I'm a 16-year-old forensics expert, I've never heard such nonsense before. So, the gentleman watched the puppet play, and from that, he concluded that the Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica, supports criminals. I don't know what you've concluded from the cartoons you're probably watching. So you supported local elections by the Democratic Party of Socialists, which has open separatist tendencies. The simplest thing is that it follows that you support their policy. I don't understand how you can support people who openly advocate secession while at the same time supporting the state community, to say it's the best legal-political framework. It's a classic example of hypocrisy. You're talking about bridges of co-operation, bridges of international co-operation, co-operation between administrations, and we're still living in the same state, Mr. Democrats. About the theft of the mandate; tell us how many MPs there were in the last meeting. Just tell me. Mr. President of the Administrative Board, let's say how many MPs the Assembly had. Is it 280 or 300? And day and day, we don't know who resigned, when he filed, and if that resignation was ever respected. They included the mayor of Nis. Mr. Jocic chaired the Administrative Committee, he never voted for that decision. You've advocated and taken 45 terms. At least don't talk about it. So, the classic replacement thesis -- stole the mandates, and the others the guilty; you support the separatists, and you advocate the community of the state. Gentlemen, you have deeply hurt your dignity in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15985	Thank you. The word is from MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15986	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 100. The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I don't think I've offended anyone here, and I don't want to compromise, I know what your goal is -- to delay the debate, not to adopt what's on the agenda. The people of my country say, "When God is not afraid, but men are not ashamed, he is not worth plowing with."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15987	The word is from Ambassador Vukosav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15988	Mr. Bosko Ristic has a strange manner of answering one question by asking another question. We don't know which way, we're asking if the contribution to the preservation of the common state is your participation in the separatist bloc campaign in Montenegro, and he says, "What does G17 Plus do?" We can talk about what G17 plus is doing, let's not run away from that conversation. But this time it's not a topic, Mr. Ristic. This time, the topic is the participation of the Democratic Party and your high representatives at the Milo Djukanovic meeting in Budva. So again, we ask you whether the contribution to the preservation of the common state is to go to a party campaign that calls for the collapse of the common state. It just can't be because of common sense. I repeat that, and so does your academic member Tadic, the father of your president. In doing so, there can be no talk here about bridges mentioned by Mr. Markovic, because you went there as party representatives. So, the president of Serbia, or the mayor of Belgrade, did not go there to official interstate or inter-urban and inter-municipal visits, where the president of the DS and vice president of the DS went to support Milo Djukanovic's campaign. This is the end, unless you want to convince yourself again that Mr Bogdanovic from the DPS in Budva called for the preservation of the common state. Here's Mr. Bogdanovic and let him come out and tell us if he said it, and if he said it, I'm taking his hat off and I'm deeply sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15989	Wait a minute, Boris Karaicic, did you ask for the Rules of Procedure? (Boris Karaičić: I give up.) ) You see, since there are many more reported without someone giving the final word, I am giving a break of an hour and we continue at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 117 MPs attend this session. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue with the order of MPs. The People's MP Vladimir Homan has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. And you didn't speak, Mr. Krassic. I'm sorry, I got the wrong call here. So, MP Zoran Krasic, and let the MP Vladimir Homan be prepared. I'm sorry, since I didn't lead during the afternoon, your name is surrounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15991	At first, I must inform the citizens of Serbia that in the afternoon debate, all participants were right. Yeah, you wonder, is that possible, is, everyone's right. All of you at the DSS are right to talk about DS, and they're right about what they said about you, and you're all right to talk about G17 plus, and it's a good thing you're finally temporary... Okay, now you're gonna hear that I'm right, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15992	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive, and you, Mr. Krasic, to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15993	I'm just talking about the subject and I'm confirming all the allegations we had this morning, and you've been justifiably absent, so you haven't heard, so you can't fit in with the debate. Let me just remind you that this is a two-point debate on the agenda. The amendments to the Constitutional Charter and the constitutional law implementing the amendments to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community concern. I need to draw your attention to the fact that we're talking about a completely different agenda. It could also have the name "Hronology of the destruction of SFRY", "Hronology of the destruction of the SRJ" or we could talk about the continuity of the destruction that is happening in the territory that the state community today covers. I must remind you that from one brutal violation of the Constitution of the SRJ we could not expect anything but the continuity of that breach and as the continuity of that breach, the Constitutional Charter also appeared. Just to remind you, while he was in effect, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was said to represent some of his provisions as a factor of instability, that the modern Federation couldn't liven up and then we had this October 5th, and before October 5th, we had an election campaign. As a witness to some events in the territory of the Republic of Montenegro, DOS had a very good campaign, their candidate Vojislav Kostunica was represented in the media, there was no interference at that time regarding the international DPS regime. What happened after October 5th? After October 5th, a new coalition occurred between the DOS and the part of the Socialists from Montenegro. Was that honest? Well, of course it wasn't honest. Some supported the SNP, and others also in the government of the joint, SNP and DOS, the DPS supported. As a result, you had the release of the DPS from the federal government and as a result you had the Constitutional Charter of Bosko Ristić and the company, which actually represented nothing. You're all right here when you say no one knows what the Constitutional Charter is, whether it's a constitutional act, whether it's a constitutional act, whether it's a state union, whether it's a union, whether it's a Federation, a confederation. I have to really explain, it's nothing. It was nothing done by the ruling nomenclature in Montenegro forming a special constitutional commission on some parity basis, which has done the Constitutional Charter. This Constitutional Charter has been pushed to the muscles in all these possible congregations, and as a result, we had what is changing today. We had a situation that the first supposed elections, which should represent the continuity of the SRJ, were in an indirect electoral system, where the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of Montenegro delegated their MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. The Serbian-Montenegro Assembly has somehow revived, but no other institution has revived, not only within the deadline prescribed by the constitutional law implementing the Constitutional Charter, but also in the delaying deadlines that may be tolerated in some way. We have a situation that's starting to be something that's imagined dysfunctional and doesn't exist. It was created on the basis of one agreement, and I remind you that two signatories of the agreement, Miroljub Labus and Zoran Djindjic, were crossed immediately after the signing and said we do not know what we signed. And those who say they're for approximation and some common state, you're all dishonest. You don't care about the common state, and that's a fact. You can declare yourself here to kill yourself, to prove who's bigger, who's a smaller patriot, who thinks more of a common state. You don't care about the common state. You care about putting these extremities, which bother you at the republican level, as you now call state communities, and so did Vuk Draskovic. I'm not going to comment on his comments, but you are an accomplice to those statements, because you never supported our initiative to remove from that function a man who invalidates the international and legal subjectivity of a people living in the territory of what you call Serbia-Montenegro. That's true, the citizens of Serbia know it well. Now let me go back to these amendments. A few months ago, when the deadline for holding direct elections in Serbia-Montenegro's territory came, Javier Solana did not want to meet with people because they failed to reach their agreement, but news came in exchange for his disappointment that Serbia-Montenegro is not co-operating with The Hague tribunal. So, the Hague tribunal's words are abused always and in every place when the ruling oligarchs are unable to apply what they have sworn, and they have sworn in the Constitutional Charter. Whether they called it a small charter or a large charter, large recognitions from abroad, it's all empty, you can't convince any citizens on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is a failed field trip, how experts try to be psychic, how they want to smart, and actually destroy. And you're on that trail, that's your way of destroying everything that would be a common state that would cover Serbia-Montenegro's territory, and you swear to it, all of you in Kosovo and Metohija. You don't care about Kosovo and Metohija. If you had cared about Kosovo and Metohija, then you would probably have been there more often since 2000, not as we had some situation that DS couldn't hold its meeting, so Tadic complains at some administrative border, as if KFOR hadn't let him hold a meeting there somewhere towards Kosovo Mitrovica. That's true, the citizens of Serbia know very well. You've also been blackmailed as a result of that blackmail by the great Solana, and now little Solana, in the form of amendments to the Constitutional Charter. I can understand that Solana does not know our language, but I cannot understand that this illegal amendment promoter does not understand normal communication and normal words used in the Republic of Serbia. How could you in the first amendment to the Constitutional Charter, say, sign the words "Republic Parliament", because there is no such thing in the legislation of Montenegro or in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. If it is reflected and is to be marked by the highest legislative and constitutional body of a state, then it is said of Serbia -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and Montenegro is told of it -- Montenegro's Assembly. The Republic Parliament does not exist, it is a political qualification, but it is not legal. However, this is in the first amendment, which states that direct elections will be held separately in both Member States when elections for republican parliaments are held. You are thus detaching something, which should be established on the same day, so that it has the same content from both Montenegro and Serbia, because you are binding the constitution of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly from the date on which elections are held separately in the Member States. It is inadmissible for an organ that should be the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. The fact that you stated in the first amendment to the Constitutional Charter is that you are constantly discussing it in Article 1. Constitutional law, so you specify when the president of Serbia-Montenegro will call elections and direct elections, and then it is said, the day after elections are held in the Member State. You are making a big mistake here, because we had it similarly in the existing Constitutional Charter and there was no force that could force Svetozar Marovic to call the elections. He very skillfully used the situation that there is no special law in Montenegro on the election of MPs, the direct election of MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. This is how you amnesty one condition that was created, and recently we had the opportunity to know that the direct elections were not only for Montenegro, but also for the regime in Serbia. Why? They were scared because there was a change in electoral will in the Republic of Serbia. Discard half of this research, let it be at your expense, but it still doesn't suit you, because the ruling coalition, when it collects all these polls, can't come, as Mr. Albianic would say, not even to the party that has the most. That's your problem and you're all on track to prevent the SRS from winning power. I'll tell you right now, you're on the wrong track, for your information, you're off the hook. So you've been written off, first of all by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, secondly, which all the international factors are increasingly learning that problems in Serbia-Montenegro depend on oligarchies in Serbia-Montenegro. The second thing to make a big mistake is Amendment II to the Constitutional Charter, where you talk about democratic standards in which a referendum should be held. It is an ordinary flossule, one distraction, to use the expression Milan Markovic, a dizziness that these members of the democratic option or party of the democratic bloc tend to be prone, because the political finding in the Constitutional Charter means nothing, because it is not raised to the level of legal norm. If we are talking about democratic standards for holding a referendum, I must remind you that there is no such thing in the European Union. Tomorrow, there will be a first referendum in the history of the country in the Netherlands and they have no standard for the referendum. If we are talking about Western Europe, we are talking about a country that is not a member of the European Union, which is Switzerland, they hold some referendums almost every week. Because their confederal status and the right to local self-governance implies, among other things, that important questions for the life and work of citizens on the territory of a city, some settlement, all citizens enter a referendum and there are other standards. What is a problem with the functioning of this state community, when it comes to the referendum issue of independence and secession of one of the republics of the state union, is the question of whether a referendum is possible in the Republic of Montenegro. And it is possible and this constitutional charter does not elaborate and prevent it. Why? It is possible, starting with a referendum issue, depending on whether it is set in a positive or negative context, different answers and different interpretations of will in the voter referendum in the Republic of Montenegro are possible. And then, not to convince you, there are other options related to the technique of carrying out the referendum, where the government is able to reverse the electoral will, or the referendum will of the citizens. It is demonstrated in the Republic of Montenegro in all elections, and in Niksic, and several days ago in Budva. In Niksic, this was demonstrated by citizens, who were informed in time of voting, getting ballots with a special point, with mobile phones to record their voice, and so Milo Djukanovic's regime ensured that the government also at the local level. I have to tell you, this state community is essentially neither dependent on Serbia nor Montenegro, and trust me much less on Solana, and much more on the state prosecutor in Naples and Barry. Why? The moment an article is published that the state prosecutor is considering the possibility to deny immunity to the Prime Minister of Montenegro, his sister lawyer with a single bag full of money goes to buy Italian media and Italian officials, in order to prevent that story from happening within six months, and then, of course, via Brussels and her other speakers, he raises it to the level of a state-of-the-art problem. And then, in Serbia, we have a shared power, where the democratic bloc is reinforced with G17 plus. And by the way, that's the party that's against the state community and against the approach. But in order to remain in a position to manipulate and control all financial flows in Serbia, they are ready to swallow the dumpling and tell Cedi Antić, calm down a little, senior state interests say we have to be for these constitutional changes, because if we are not for constitutional changes, we have to get out of the government, and if we leave the government, then customs leave, the banks are gone, all sources of funds have gone. Because, anyway, this party, whose last president is Mr. Albianic, and there is a reason why they would exercise financial flows in the Republic of Serbia as much as possible. There are Democrats right when they attack G17 plus, because it's not consistent. Of course, Ceda Antic will calm down, give him 100 euros for a show, and everything will be fine. It's a similar situation with regard to DS. They are not interested in the state union, because if they were interested in the state community, they would never agree that Davinic would be the one to bury the army of Serbia-Montenegro, they would probably try to take someone less buried, some consistent successor of Boris Tadic, because he buried the army, too. You know, if you're fighting on the left, if you're fighting inside a democratic block, you have so much media, go over there and argue, there's talk here about something of state interest. Since we often hear from DS representatives that they're a governmental party, I don't know which state they built, but I know one they destroyed. The one they destroyed is called the SRJ, and as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, that's where we'll stop you. Here we will stop you and there will be no help from Kasa or this Bogoljub Karic. So Bogoljub Karic won't help you either, and because you're mutually co-produced about extraprofits and interest returns, it's a special story, and that's why we discussed it, and that's why your Zivkovic broke. But take care, because when you go out for this pay phone, we don't know what faction he's talking about. Whether the Tadic family faction, or the Bogdanovic faction, or the Sutanovac faction, or who knows which fraction. So you go to Studio B, agree there on the VIN show to take a unique position, and if you need a mediator, I'm a bankruptcy manager, and I'd be happy to finish my job. To tell you the truth, I'm doing a very good job, and for that I have to show you my gratitude, you've made my job easier, because you're falling apart at all levels. Let these statistics go. So the SRS can't support this because this is part of the state's disintegration. One more thing: the government of the Republic of Serbia is not the authority to propose this item of the agenda and this proposal. This must be taken into account, as MPs must take care of Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where the Constitutional Committee is not authorized to consider and write what it wrote in the report. There's been a rough overload of the Constitutional Committee's authority. If there were a little justice and justice and there was a little more respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, including your Constitutional Charter and our Rules of Procedure, this item of the agenda would not be on the agenda today, and if it were on the agenda, then MPs could submit amendments to the proposed text, and only after that debate to see what the will of the Republic of Serbia is, so with that will you go to agree with the will that comes from the Republic of Montenegro. This is what two unauthorized organs did, under the pressure of Javier Solana. You just forgot one thing, the latest events show that Javier Solana is not all-powerful. You see for themselves, audiences and citizens in Europe are very often inclined to criticise Solana, not accept his proposals. You'll hear tomorrow when the Dutch are done. I'm not going to prejudge some things, but pay attention, even the Dutch can't cheat anymore, and no one else will be able to cheat anymore, because a hoax of globalism that negates the fundamental interests of all European peoples. Take care of that. If you really want to run a policy, then give some constitutional amendments and legislation to implement these amendments, which would be serious, primarily as a legal act, and then an act that would express the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of the citizens of Montenegro. What they have offered is not the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, but of Javier Solana at the end of his career and the last moves or the move of the republican oligarchs to prevent new elections, how to stop the new electoral will of citizens and enable themselves to abuse these positions in which they are located. The evidence for this abuse is the very fact that you refused to discuss the government a few days ago and to form an investigative committee on the Ericsson affair.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15994	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Homan. Let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15995	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would first of all like to say something about yesterday's session and why I, as well as most members of the Constitutional Committee, voted against discussing amendments and the law on their implementation. There are two basic reasons. The first reason is that there is no basis for an amendmental intervention to this text. He needs to be adopted or rejected. There's no environment, there's no change, because if something needs to be adopted by three congregations, it's completely illogical for one to change something, and then the other to change something else, and then we can never get to the unique text. That's quite clear. The second reason is that all the amendments have, and we're already used to the applicants of these amendments, the same text, and that's to be deleted. This in translation, in this particular case, means that the applicants of the amendments against the amendments to the Constitutional Charter. That's how they're gonna vote. That's how they're supposed to vote. The attempt to manipulate these amendments to this content is only for political promotion, it is clear to all, and is an abuse of the right to submit amendments. Therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs rejected this possibility. The other thing is to say, first of all, what is our goal today. Our national goal, I guess, is clear to all, is Serbia in the EU. This can only be achieved if Serbia is a functional state, efficient and efficient. This can only be achieved by providing our citizens with a better and fairer life. What kind of state will make all of this possible, it could be the subject of debate and it's for the party G17 plus today the subject of debate. We'll see. For now, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is not. We hope, therefore, that is why we support the amendments to the Constitutional Charter, that this will now be possible. We're in the next situation right now, and that's what's important to say. First of all, it must be pointed out that as a party, we were against the adoption of the Law on the direct selection of MPs for the assembly of the state union. It turned out that we were right, because it was impossible, and today it's impossible, to force a Member State to organise these elections. This has led to these amendments to the Constitutional Charter, and it should be said that these amendments, in fact, accepted the proposal G17 plus from December of last year, where we sought such a change of the Constitutional Charter, so that we could move from the dead spot. We also fought for a double track on joining the EU, and then we left a dead end. It should be said that, regardless of all this, Serbia today pays 95% of the costs of the state community, and Montenegro, of course, is 5% and the government is divided by half. It should be said that we have two diplomacys: diplomacy of the state community and diplomacy of Montenegro. We don't have Serbian diplomacy. We also have different money, different customs. The bottom line is we don't have a functioning state. This should try to change that. That is why in the future we must continue to try to protect the national interests and dignity of the citizens of Serbia, because the states exist because of the citizens. First of all, you have to ask the citizens what they want and what they think. It should not be limited to a referendum being organised only in one Member State of the state community. Why not organise a referendum in Serbia, if necessary. We must have stability in order to concentrate all energy on what I said at first is the main objective, which is European integration and resolving Kosovo and Metohija's future status. With this, of course, we must agree and negotiate with Montenegro's leadership. We hope the Montenegrin Assembly will accept these amendments as well. So I propose to everyone who criticises this solution, as well as the method of adoption, and we consider it necessary to save, as I said yesterday, what can be saved, I urge them to propose another solution. And not only are they criticizing, because it's really easy to criticize, and I didn't hear in these two days what is offered as a solution. It is easy to criticise and be against, and the seriousness of a policy is seen, above all, in the ability to gain strength and constructive approaches to finding solutions to a problem like this, i.e. The functionality of the state community, because here is the fundamental problem of the functionality of the state community. He constantly complains – G17 plus is against the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We're against being in some state community or state-owned form that isn't functional. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as I have pointed out from several examples, is not a functioning state and therefore we are against such a state. However, we are about to give the state community a chance for these amendments to become a functioning state and therefore we will support these amendments. If these interventions prove that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro cannot be a functioning state, we know which state can and wants to be a functioning and right European state, which is Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15996	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15997	The previous MP misread the views of the SRS and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as at the meeting of the National Assembly. It doesn't make sense for those of you who want to make amendments to some proposal to call people who abuse the right to submit amendments. It doesn't make sense that those who are against the proposal that you're going to vote for are calling people who are against the common state. You don't have the right to do that, because your ideology is to split up and I have to doubt good intentions when you're voting for some proposal that brings us together with Montenegro. What's your interest then? I think you're the most aware here that this time-longing is actually breaking the country and it's all going on water. In public - we are for the common state, here we give you a chance once again, and when you finish your session and when you order for coffee you will say - this is going great, we're extending deadlines, the state is falling apart. Give me one guarantee that Montenegro will pass a law on the election of MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. Give me one argument. If she didn't want to in two years, if, after two proposals in the Montenegrin Parliament itself, none of them were adopted and the law on the selection of MPs was passed. If a representative of Montenegro, who is the president of Serbia-Montenegro, has not called the elections in the Constitution as scheduled, give me one piece of evidence that this extension of deadlines guarantees direct elections in Montenegro. Don't just talk about how we don't have a solution. There are solutions now, aren't there? No, you've been leading the country into a mess for three years, so give a radical solution. Take your resignations to see the solution. Is there a better solution than for this government to stand down? Is there a better solution? What, we're supposed to let you do your agony for another year? Will you have the cheek next year to offer us amendments to this amendment to the Constitutional Charter? You have other things to do. Look, this one brought a laptop to the O.R., it's getting important. Take a look at this wonder worldly, game games, settles solitaire.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15998	The word has the People's MP Albianic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u15999	It's a business thing. I don't need a replica, it doesn't matter. It is important, according to the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the parliamentary group and MPs individually. I don't want to get into polemics, it's important that I express G17 plus attitudes. Change of the Constitutional Charter, which we now have on the agenda of the Assembly... No, it's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16000	Then what is it, Mr. Albianic? A Rules of Procedure or a Replic? Mr. Toma Nikolic recognized himself in the presentation of the previous debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16001	And in an unworthy way he expressed himself according to...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16002	And you, I understand you're looking for a replica because you recognize yourself in Mr. Tom Nikolic's negative connotation as a party. If that's why you asked for the right to reply, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16003	Mr. Chairman, allow me to proceed. So when someone turns around and violates the dignity of the Assembly, and the wrong story about the parliamentary group I belong to and run in the Serbian Parliament, I will tell you what's true. It is true that the G17 plus proposed a change in the Constitutional Charter a few months ago, by delaying the date of the direct elections after the referendum in Montenegro. We have the view that a referendum is needed in both Serbia and Montenegro, to see what the will of the citizens is. Thus, changes say that after the referendum, so when elections for the Republic are held, there will also be elections for the state union. We have a referendum first, so we'll see what the attitude of the citizens is. So, after the referendum. The referendum is something when the citizens will come forward. It is the greatest right of citizens to declare themselves in what state they want to live in. I don't think that's controversial. Also, it cannot be disputed if G17 plus uses words such as -- an agreement, a discussion of Serbia-Montenegro's political elites about seeking a final solution. If the international community and the European Union consider political dialogue to be something important to improve, I guess it is logical and normal for us to improve dialogue between ourselves, and Serbia-Montenegro's dialogue. As for G17 plus, the attitude is completely unequivocally clear, let's see what citizens think about what state they want to live in, because this country is not a functioning state. We help by voting for these amendments that the state union works, let a referendum be held and we will see what these results are. Do not slow down the institutional functioning of G17 plus. We are not here to bring down, but to build, fortify and make institutions, and let the people decide as they are right and proper.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16004	I hope we've now cleared up the misunderstandings that were. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16005	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the strongest link in the Serbian government says the amendments are on her proposal, to read the most strongly what amendments look like, because she doesn't know. The first amendment: "The direct elections for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly will be held separately in both Member States when elections are held for the republican parliaments. The mandates of the current MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly will be extended until the elections are held." Second amendment: "The regulation on a possible referendum must be based... "Where does it say here that after the referendum elections will be held? Where it says, kariko, I don't mean you personally, I mean the strongest link. You're destroying our dignity here now. You said I brought down the Parliament's dignity. Possibly. Perhaps there is someone more dignified here than me to represent the SRS's views, but why are you misleading Serbian citizens? This is what people in direct transmission watch. Why do you deceive people that the election will be after the referendum, when it doesn't appear in amendments to the Constitutional Charter? So I ask you when elections will be held, now both in Serbia and Montenegro. I asked you about Montenegro, since you have no influence on Montenegro's leadership. Perhaps yellows could influence Montenegro's leadership when there will be elections, but I am asking you now when will the elections in Serbia be for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and what will make it possible for us to extend those deadlines? Why didn't you agree with Montenegro's leadership to extend the deadlines without us holding the election? Why should we step on the Constitutional Charter? Is there any reason for Serbia not to hold direct elections for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly? There isn't. The only reason is that even the strongest link, the greatest link and all the other link would no longer represent this chain that drags us to the bottom and will one day betray us. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16006	The word is Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Nikolic has clarified the ambiguities that were in the wrong interpretation. Let's see what's been hurt in the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16007	Mr. Angelkovic, you heard what Mr. Nikolic objected to, but you couldn't imagine what I was going to object to. (President: That's why I'm asking. I know that the visibility is the characteristics of others, not the chairman. Let me say that a broken member is 100. The Rules of Procedure and that you were obliged to warn Mr Albianic. He has a real need, as the last president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, to come out here, but there's no need for him to disrespect us here. Mr. Albianic, you need to interpret the words that are heard from this pay phone. The fact that you have a political attitude, that's good. It's even better when you inform the citizens, but don't change the thesis. You're talking about something that doesn't stand in the motion to change the Constitution. You are also coming out here to challenge the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's right to, as a representative of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, influence the establishment of a joint proposal to change the Constitution and the Constitutional Charter. That's forbidden. You can't say you're for democracy anymore. How can you say you're for democracy? You're for a deal of party oligarchies, which, by chance, still rule, because it hasn't broken down here, and it's long gone, it's got to break a long time ago. We have a situation that some people are wrong in power. There's been a mistake. Now, we here explain to you for a reason, that you are calling and potential as some of your advantages, some of your commitment, that's fog. We are precisely telling citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as we said three, four and five years ago, that this is a hoax, as the Constitutional Charter was a prank. And then we criticized you and said -- come on, if you want to make a state community, look like a state, that the Constitutional Charter be a constitution, a highest legal act, give direct elections, and have some of its autonomous deadlines in which they are conducted, depending on the mandate of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. No, you don't want the election will of the citizens. You disrespect the citizens. But you're not the only one in G17 plus that. And there are these Democrats. They have all the math in the media. They're not in the party. They're not in the Assembly. They're in the Bleek, B92, People's Office. What institution is the National Office? Please don't criticize us that we're against it. You're against the state community. You are against any idea of a Federation or any other form, where a state would be formed that would include Serbia-Montenegro. Your political stance and the Democratic Party's political stance is an independent Kosovo and make that clear. Don't, hiding through Ceda Antic, Ceda Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Goran Svilanovic, "goes the sword around you", say loud and clear. You're against this country. You called the bombing. You were the first to say how much war damage it was, and you didn't even know if the war started.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16008	Wait a minute, Mr. Albianic. I don't know if the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Mr Krasic, you have, as usual, all used the right to Article 100, where it is said that the MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I did not understand, as chairman, that Mr Albianic treated any other MP with disrespect, unless the different political views were disrespect. I don't think there's any need to discuss this further. If you consider that a member of 100 has been injured, I pray that in the day of the vote we declare ourselves. Mr. Albianic, and Mr. Krasic has expressed various political views, I don't know what hurt you. (Miljub Albianic, from the place: Replica) If it is a replica, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16009	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you that all parties to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Democratic Party has issued that position, are proposing a change in the Constitutional Charter, i.e. to support the proposal that is before us. Let's clear this up, who's up for a suggestion or not. What's very important, we don't use words like "hit." We don't step on the Constitutional Charter, we change it with amendments. That's appropriate. And we do not dispute the right of the congregations to plead. The assembly is the largest legislative body in Serbia and will declare the proposed amendments. It is only a matter of passing the assembly procedure as a result of the agreement of political elites in Serbia-Montenegro. Someone mentioned, therefore, when there will be elections and disputed what I said, to change the Constitutional Charter after a referendum in Montenegro. It is certainly my expectation that the elections will be after the referendum in Montenegro, and here the elections will certainly be after 2006. Yesterday, I told you it would be December 23rd, 2007, to make you those five days, since it's not Sunday 28th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16010	Mr. Sarovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard to listen to the representatives of this party, whose previous speaker is a member, when he defends the Constitutional Charter and tells us about the Constitutional Charter, but he doesn't want to say that here, in fact, he's finally breaking up this country, even if he's as freakish as he is right now. What's true, you say yourself that this country is completely dysfunctional, but you won't say that Miroljub Labus was the vice president of the federal government, you won't say that Miroljub Labus was one of the creators and writers of this constitutional charter. You will not say that you also have ministers in this federal government, who have just had the most impact on the decommissioning of the state itself, and Mr Davinic has had a decisive impact on the destruction of the Yugoslav Army. What is also undeniable is that not only do you now step on the Constitutional Charter, but you have already stepped down the Constitutional Charter after 30 days, because 30 days has been a deadline for the establishment of all bodies in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, and thanks to you and your coalition partners from Montenegro, it has not been done. The Constitutional Charter was violated even when you did not call the election according to it, and none of you in the ruling coalition, at any point, said anything in public, insisted or anything else. You had the opportunity to have these choices called. You, in addition to having passed a Law on the direct election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly in parliament, failed to ask for the same thing from those who were obliged to do so in Montenegro. You waited for the deadlines to pass, you kept quiet, and then you said, "This is the reality now, and we have to accept it." And will you in two years, when the deadlines for calling the election again and for these amendments, which you have now given, say, here, it's past time, this is now reality, we have to accept this, or it's going to be something much worse. And what's interesting is that you're telling us that just through these amendments, we're going to get to this Europe, and you've convinced us that we should do this for the sake of this Europe, and now we need to bring these amendments. However, I am also surprised by the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is its representative here, Mr Loncar, who says that on 7 April, under the auspices of the European Union itself, he said, "a signed agreement on the amendment of the Constitutional Charter. "I really don't know when Javier Solana became the EU itself, that is, the personification of that union, and you should tell us when one of the official EU authorities proposed such amendments. That, of course, has never been done. Who is the author of the amendment to the Constitutional Charter in the first place? Is it the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, the federal state, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, or it is Javier Solana. I think after what happened on April 7th it's clear that it's only Javier Solana, that the only authorised amendment promoter is him, because such a constitutional charter was his child. The last time, however, you negotiated a little longer, and this time it came practically without notice, flew in, gave you the text of these amendments and said, sign this quicker-better and push it into parliament. What is surprising is that you are trying – despite what you said, there will be no choice for another two years, this parliament has expired, but it will extend the mandate for another two years – to preserve some sort of democracy. It would be interesting to see what this Europe, to which we all strive so much, would say if another country, why not, for example, France said, here, instead of five years, the term of office will now take seven; there is no need to call elections, it will be good and this way, we will extend the mandate to both ministers and all others, there is no need to declare ourselves, we have more important things. Why are you telling us that the choice of MPs remains direct? How can he remain direct, if these MPs are chosen indirectly? Then I guess the way remains circumstantial, because you directly empower them to sit where they sit for two more years, even though the will of the people is not behind it. The choice of MPs will be made directly only when it is there, and now until there is no choice, while you, in this way, which is certainly contrary to the Constitutional Charter, extend the mandate, cannot tell them quite a direct choice. It is said that these amendments are harmonised by rules at the level of the state community, that it enables the functioning of the state community and that in this way the crisis in the functioning of the institutions of the state community is, at the very least, difficult to explain. Because I will also remind you that by 2000 you said that the only problem in the functioning of the state is Slobodan Milosevic. After the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, you broke up, contrary to the then applicable Constitution, the SRJ. You've made a community of state, and of course you've failed to meet the deadlines for the elections or the authorities or the court's election. You did not respect the provisions that determine that they could not be from one Member State as well as the defence minister and foreign minister. You didn't respect any of the provisions that said that after two years, ministers had to be replaced with their deputies. All in all, you didn't respect anything. You stepped from the first letter to the last letter of this Constitutional Charter. Indeed, despite my best wishes, I can't see, nor imagine how these two amendments, which extend the mandate of something that doesn't work, will be able to change that. In what way this community, which can never function, would be really good for you to answer. Also, you need to give us an answer to the question of how do you think you agree on relations in the state community, if you, even in this Serbian government, which has about 15% of the popularity in common, cannot agree on this. G17 plus representatives are coming out and are openly pushing for the disintegration of the state community. The gentlemen who had previously spoken not only could not look into the camera, but they could not here to their fellow MPs, mumbling something in their beards, so they themselves did not know how and why they would justify their position on this matter. Then they tell the radicals, you're against it, against these amendments, and that's how you vote. Of course it is. It's much better that attitude and it's much easier to explain our position than your position that you're against, but you'll vote yes. How is that possible? As for holding direct elections, we have already told you that it is absolutely pointless to hold the same day and elections for the republican parliaments in Montenegro and Serbia, and elections for MPs in the state community. The purpose of this constitutional charter, previously signed, and this direct election was to verify the will of the citizens. There is no need for you to check citizens' will twice in the same day, as depending on political parties' views, people will also vote for MPs in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The difference between the votes some party receives on one and the other list can only be minimal. This is complete play and constitutional charter and what you promised the citizens. Make sure what you've come up with about the amendment doesn't go as easy as you think. The law implementing amendments to the Constitutional Charter is also a bill of law, as well as all other laws that come here in the procedure. I repeat, the Legislative Committee had to make a statement about the law, and it had to be made known about the amendments to the law, just as you will have to put in the debate and the vote of the amendment tabled by the representatives of the SRS. The opposite of what you do, and it wouldn't be the first time, is the gazing and will of the people, and the essence of parliamentaryism, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this National Assembly. So think again about what you are going to do and how you will do, for you have already overcome many of those in the previous session, which are famous for the treading of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. You, although your term is somewhat shorter for the time being, and I believe you will not be able to reach the term of office of the previous one, have managed to outrun them by the number of times you have broken the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16012	I thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The People's MP Milan Markovic has the word, and then the People's MP Verica Radeta. Mr. Markovic, don't fall, and I'll still be as guilty as the chairman, and break your leg. Please don't. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16013	Well, since it's my friend and colleague, I know it was an accident in that place. Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to repeat what has been heard in the afternoon debate and what has been said by the authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, Bosko Ristic, about our party's position on today's topic and about our party's position towards the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. First, the DS sees Serbia-Montenegro's state union as an optimal legal and political framework for what citizens of Serbia-Montenegro aim to do. We sincerely hope to convince the citizens of Montenegro in this attitude. So this community we now have is the best way to join European integration together and join the EU. Of course, the second question is the efficiency of the community in which we live today, and in this sense the criticisms that have been heard here in the last two days are fully justified. That is why the DS will make the most of its efforts to improve the efficiency of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. Our attitude is primarily due to reality. So the reality is that it forces us to be pragmatic in policymaking and to look pragmaticly at the circumstances that determine our political scene. Our theme is amendments to the Constitutional Charter. Two questions were raised here. One of these issues is procedure, and the other question is in general how the creation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro took place. As far as the procedure is concerned, I can appreciate the arguments that were brought here against this kind of procedure that we have today, but I'd have to remind you of a few facts why these arguments don't stand. First, this procedure was first established in the procedure of last year when the Constitutional Charter was adopted. The procedure last year was based on the Belgrade Agreement, which was adopted in March 2002. The Belgrade agreement is a de facto agreement between the two sides, and in this sense it is primarily an operational document that has a constitutional character and which is seen in the creation of a state of Serbia-Montenegro. I would not say that the crackdown of the SRJ was done, but a new formation was created, which is the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. As such, the agreement is subject to ratification procedures, and so has the Federal Parliament and the parliament of Montenegro, as well as the parliament of Serbia. We may not like it, but it is certain that the community that we had previously had has de facto ceased to exist and in it we had much more elements that separated us from those elements that bring Serbia-Montenegro together. As much as it seems today, no matter what criticism may be made at the expense of the existence of the Serbia-Montenegro community, it is certain that in a functional sense it has taken a step forward from the SRJ. In it, to remind us, we had a border between Serbia and Montenegro, characterised by two monetary systems, two markets, and what was worst characterized by tension, political violence and verbal conflicts of Serbia-Montenegro's leadership. The second topic is a violation of the Constitutional Charter. There is no dilemma that the Constitutional Charter has been broken several times, we simply have to admit it and it is a shame for all of us in the state union Serbia-Montenegro. We are witnesses of political volunteerism, and not only when it comes to the Constitutional Charter. Our simple laws don't often commit us, and it repeats itself. This is not what happened when it comes to the Constitutional Charter, this is what happens in this House, and not to return the topic now, so that we do not open a discussion that was before noon, I simply want you to remember for yourselves all those moments when the political interests and when the pressure of the executive authority over the legislation were such that not only the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were respected, but also the Constitution. So the political volunteerism that exists in our country clearly shows that we are far from the ideal of rule of law to which we all strive. One of the topics here is the relationship to political factors in Montenegro. So, in Montenegro, as in every country, we have power, we have an opposition to power, there is a party of DPS in power, there are a number of parties in opposition, the largest of which is the SNP and now the issue of our relationship with them is being raised, and we of the DS have suffered criticism from distinguished colleagues here, because we believe that these parties should be co-operated in a direct and open way. We think it's the best way to fight for a common state. We think the only way to work in the interests of citizens and Serbia-Montenegro, to give the common state a chance, is to co-operate with both the ruling and opposition parties in Montenegro. We must respect the choice of citizens of Montenegro. We simply owe it to the citizens of Montenegro, it is a democratic procedure and it is a democratic standard. In power is the DPS, she called on our party's representatives to be guests at one of her rallys and our representatives were guests at the rally. Already in the afternoon discussion I mentioned another variant, the other variant is ignoring other parties or other republics or other states, and we went through it once. Serbia has ignored the leadership of other states, their political aspirations, it has often been able to co-operate with the opposition in the republic within the same state. Where did that lead us, where did the political leadership fight lead us? I'll repeat what I said before noon. When politicians fight, people get hurt. It is not a solution and is not a chance for the common state to refuse co-operation with the DPS, the solution is exactly the opposite, to establish full, direct and honest co-operation with the DPS that is now in power. In the same way, respect the SNP, which is now in opposition and which may come to power. Only in this way can we help our citizens, whatever the outcome of the referendum in Montenegro, and that result can be positive, can be negative from our point of view, can it come to Montenegro's desire to split. If so, our good relationship with the DPS will be of key importance, as only in this way will it be possible to protect the interests of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, and we know what are the links between the historic, family and property between Serbs and Montenegrins living in Belgrade and Podgorica. Of course, in that discussion, there were still a few additional objections to me. One of these was that we now need to appreciate the quality of Montenegro's leadership. It's not up to us. We can say intimately how we feel about Montenegro's leadership and that's nice, but for this speaker, it's not our job. For this speaker, the political party that is in Montenegro's power is a political fact, a political fact, and we as politicians have to shape our behaviour with facts that make up political reality. The second thing you heard, which was very interesting, is the issue of holding a referendum in Montenegro. The referendum should and must be maintained according to the highest European standards, but let us not give ourselves the right to speak in advance of whether this referendum will be good and even less that we give ourselves the right to teach Montenegrins how they will hold a referendum in Montenegro. We have no right to do so, not just because of the other republic and the citizens of the other republic. We don't have the right to do this ourselves by not showing that we are up to democratic procedures, at least not to the extent that the parliament of Montenegro has grown up. I remind you that currently in Montenegro's parliament, there is a debate on the agenda of the government of Montenegro and that this is a democratic standard that Serbia has not reached since 2000, and the previous ruling majority, and this ruling majority, which has persistently refused to put such a point on the agenda. It's one of the crucial rights of the minority in every parliament, and democracy, my dear friends, is precisely measuring the rights of the minority. So what I think is being asked of us, and most of all what we are asked to do and what we can do and what we do, if we care about Montenegro and the people who live there, is respect their political expression, no matter how much we like it or not. In that sense, try to understand the desire of the DS to have friendly relations with both the SNP and the DPS. The next question is the question of the fate of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and I will do so very briefly. We in Serbia, at the very least, and within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have differing aspirations for what the fate of the state union will be. Namely, two key partners in the government of the Republic of Serbia have conflicting views on the Serbia-Montenegro community. I don't think that's so controversial. It is hypocritical, indeed, to transfer the Democratic Party to co-operation with some parties in Montenegro, while at the same time tolerate such an attitude. I should remind you that it is the G17 Plus party, which advocates the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, the party that runs Serbia-Montenegro's military. However, it does not have to be anything controversial if each of us is fighting legal means under the Constitution and the law for our legitimate goals. I am sure that the G17 plus, as is done by the party in Montenegro, DS, the Serbian government, that we will all be civilized enough to fight for our goals. A question of indirect and direct choices. This issue of indirect and direct elections was raised several months ago, when we discussed here the Law on the election of MPs to the state's parliament. Now, it was clear to me back then, and most MPs here too, it was clear that Montenegro would not agree for practical political reasons to direct elections for the state union. It seems to me that the work of the ruling coalition in Serbia at that time did not suit the elections. It's something that's a matter of pragmatic-political decisions, the truth of day-to-day politics, but that's what they are. It wasn't, therefore, difficult to predict, but something else in the whole thing bothers me. Why did Serbia's leadership not then start to take some action, why we had to wait six months for this change in the Constitutional Charter, why we needed the participation of an international factor for this change in the Constitutional Charter. And in this way, as if we were unable to communicate with the government of Montenegro and to agree on a change in the Constitutional Charter. You can't stick your head in the sand and push and insist on some story, because this country in the last 10 years or 15 has never led to the desired goal. This could all have been resolved six months earlier, and Serbian President Boris Tadic suggested it, and, truth be told, Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus suggested, if I'm not mistaken. So that's what was proposed, not done. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and every government, must run politics through time, observe and Anticipate political events. This was something that was clear one through one, and this was known the same day we put that law on the agenda here, and it didn't have to wait this long to come up with that solution. I still have to admit, I don't know, I asked that and then, I don't know if he was Minister Loncar, but then I asked if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had a position on holding a referendum in Serbia. It is important that you who are leading this country do you have a position on the referendum in Serbia, it is simply necessary, especially because your coalition is quite diverse, very strangely composed of parties that have a different attitude towards the Serbia-Montenegro community. Secondly, what is very important, which is crucial in the extreme case of the future, whatever decision Montenegro has made in the referendum, is what is the relationship between your government and the government of Montenegro, whether you communicate normally, whether you have communication at all, or whether you are looking at each other through "the aim". Because this is very important, because I think your role is to have as good relations with the DPS as you have with the SNP and with any party that is close to you ideologically or not close to you. So that's something you have to take care of and you have to answer those questions, that's very important to me. That would be about in some of the shortest lines about what our party's position on the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is. I think I have fully explained our commitment to good interpartisan relations with the parties in Montenegro and I think you have all understood that this is exclusively in the function of maintaining and preserving the Serbia-Montenegro community. On the other hand, in the afternoon discussion, there were a bit of bile, different debates, but in that discussion there could be very interesting arguments, I'm sorry that you weren't there, but it can be forgiven for you, since you're our Parliament and at night when we're discussing laws that, because of the inefficient work of the National Assembly, come to the agenda in the night, so when the normal world sleeps.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16014	I thank Mr. Markovic. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then the People's Messenger of Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16015	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public, I would like to remind you of the time when the Belgrade Agreement was signed and when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, on the views of the SRS, when we were the most fierce critics and these Constitutional Charters, and this Belgrade Agreement, because we knew that you were the Frog Constitution, as you called the SRJ Constitution, replaced Solana's Constitutional Charter, actually meant the beginning of the end of the common state. Yesterday, the president of the assembly, when representatives of the SRS spoke in this sense, said he tried to be funny, that Solana was not human. We know that and we knew that, not a man, is a monster who doesn't like Serbia, but supports the ethnic governments in Serbia, and the previous one today. Interestingly, from the point of view of rights and legal science, it could have occurred to someone to propose to the National Assembly of this amendment to the Constitutional Charter and the law implementing the amendments to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. This very interesting way is particularly surprising that it is the government representative Mr. Zoran Loncar, who said here that he receives a salary at the Law School, and believe me, Minister, that the legal public is laughing at what you are trying to legalise in this House today. You've simply become, and you and those before you, innovators in legal theory or practice, and I don't just know if you've protected your patents anywhere, first of all, from the existence of that State Fantasy, which you've called a community of state, and now to this and this kind of alteration of the Constitutional Charter. The government of the Republic of Serbia is allowed to propose amendments, or amendments to the Constitutional Charter, without constitutional basis, and to the MPs, the Serbian Assembly is not allowed to respond to the same text. The president of parliament here yesterday explained that, as he said, he did not participate in making the Constitutional Charter, but that does not mean that now that the Constitutional Charter is back on the agenda, or amendments to the Constitutional Charter, it is not necessary to adhere to the Constitution and the law. The fact that at the time when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, call the professor of law school, that's the mean and dirty plagiarist Stevan Liliæ, invented that MPs can discuss an act in principle - take it or leave it, it was then accepted. At that time, the congregation’s majority thought it was good, then they listened to Solana. You are also listening to the same man today, and you are also trying to make it impossible for MPs to do normal work. I can understand that you were listening to Solan at the time, and I guess today you're clear, or since Sunday, you realize there's no need to be blind listeners. Behold, you see the people of France reacting on Sunday, and there is nothing wrong with them, nor will they be wrong with anything. What you've proposed in the amendments is something simply incredible, inapplicable. As we told you, it's an inapplicable Constitutional Charter, today we're telling you to remake some phantom regulation, something that no one has ever had, which essentially changes nothing, which puts off the agony. Yesterday, I told a colleague -- who told the speaker that these amendments to the Constitutional Charter were in fact an advocate for the preservation of the union between Serbia and Montenegro, that they could not apply the Constitutional Charter when the Montenegrin government did not want to call the elections and there was no choice, they could not have forced them into arms -- asked, when these amendments were adopted and elections in Montenegro were not happening again, and they happened in Serbia, in which way they would force the government in Montenegro to call the elections. He told me he didn't know. So now I ask him publicly to tell everyone he doesn't know and to tell everyone that he's voting for something he's sure he can't apply, or that it's quite clear that there's going to be a problem in the application of this act. If it weren't for that, then the Constitutional Charter would have been, like, applied. We Serbian radicals, who were the biggest opponents of the adoption of this Constitutional Charter, were most committed to its application. You who fought and fought to bring that Constitutional Charter, did nothing to apply it. What happens now when he comes, if he comes, to the application of these amendments? Does anyone live know what the mandate is for MPs in this federal parliament, in Serbia-Montenegro's parliament? Does anyone know that there will be a number of MPs there for, say, three years, another five years? Was there any interference in the same way that this basic Constitutional Charter that you are now changing with the amendments? Why were no elections in Serbia called at the time when there was a legal deadline, or a deadline from the Constitutional Charter – 4 February last year? The same situation you would have had: Serbia would have proved that it respects the Charter, the government in Montenegro obviously would not and would not have any problems. Today you show that the authorities in Serbia do not care about the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro community. You've been proving it since your famous October 5, 2000. I was just surprised when counterpart Markovic criticised the current government, as it was composed of parties with different views, different programmes, and how and within the ruling coalition there is a party that advocates the separation of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, that's true, but it's also true that the same situation was in that previous Doss government. I guess no one forgot that one of the ministers, then the minister of justice, was on behalf of his party collecting signatures to call a referendum on Serbia-Montenegro's separation. So there is no difference between the previous and the government today, not only when it comes to the survival of the Serbia-Montenegro community, but also on many key issues of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Loncar, you said yesterday that the Constitutional Charter received the highest marks at European level and that the only objective of these amendments is to preserve the Serbia-Montenegro community. First I ask you - if this constitutional charter has received the highest marks, why not fight for its application? The one who persuaded you to make a phantom state, the one who persuaded you to sign the Belgrade Agreement, the one who dictated the text of the Constitutional Charter, must have been powerful enough to force you, along with that separatist regime in Montenegro, to respect this constitutional charter. The problem is that there was no will either in the leadership, in the government of Serbia, or in the government of Montenegro. Both of you have some ideas that, unfortunately, lead to the separation of the common state. In fact, the common states are gone. It's a community of states. This is not only formally different, but also fundamentally different, both. So, you have foreseen in Article 1, let's say, the law implementing the amendments to the Constitutional Charter that the first direct elections for the MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are announced by the president of Serbia-Montenegro on the next day of the election day for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or for the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro, so that they are held at the same time as elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or for the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. Is this going to be the same day, is this going to be in both republics the same day? Will Svetozar Marovic really be the day the elections in Serbia are discussed, so to speak. Federal elections, or elections at community level? Do any of you have any guarantees that this constitutional charter will really be possible with these amendments, which will probably be adopted these days? Or, imagine, you say in Article 2: "As regards the reason for the termination of the mandate and the procedure for the indirect election of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly MPs, the rules applicable on the day of the election of a Member State delegation to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are applied." Mr. Loncar, do you know that, when the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed, in the transitional and final provisions put out of force that law you are calling upon here. He's gone, he doesn't exist, he's nowhere to be found. How do you think, by virtue of the non-existent law, that you choose MPs in this state community? How come at least then or how now you don't remember changing something in that Law on selecting MPs, leaving this as a variant? There's always something wrong with the communication between the laws, like they don't come from the same source. I know, and you know they're coming. Take a little care of the translations, coordinate it, so it's not so obvious, it's not funny. Really, if it wasn't sad, it would be funny. You know that well, Mr. Lonchar, and you know that your students at law school laugh at such solutions. How are you going to teach them, the professor of reputation at your university, how you're going to tell them that you're behind this, I can't call it any legal act, because it's really not that. So the SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of these presidential proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, because the government is not authorized to propose them; secondly, because they are in collegiate with existing acts, because they have no legal or constitutional basis, because they cannot be applied, because they do not contribute to the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro community. But I want to point out, not to be misread, Serbian radicals are for the common state, and we will do everything we can to make that common state stand. Regardless of the attempts by parts of the Serbian government, which advocates detachment of Montenegro, regardless of the attempt by Boris Tadic and Nenad Bogdanovic to support the parliamentary campaign, the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, the Serbian Radicals will do everything to survive the Serbia-Montenegro community here and in Montenegro. But it can do it without these amendments, and that's why we won't vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16016	The People's Messenger, Gordan Pop-Lazic, has the word, and the People's Messenger Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16017	Dear colleagues, I cannot help but notice that the Constitutional Charter and the amendment to the Constitutional Charter, as the highest legislative act of the common state, deserves to be Prime Minister here, so that Mr. Loncar does not suffer blows that he does not deserve. He is in charge of another segment – for the functioning of local self-government. We expect the local self-government to work and take measures according to the law, when conditions arise, so that we can at least mitigate such a bad law. Mr. Tadic could have come here with Kostunica. They signed the agreement on 7 April, although we MPs did not see the agreement, nor did anyone ask us anything, so as a previous question, did it not have to go in some reverse order, that first someone as a national representative would ask us about these amendments to the Constitutional Charter, and then establish a term with Javier Solana and sign the agreement. Here one MP asked a question and resented the current government why we waited six months to propose such amendments to the Constitutional Charter, and here I would answer it because Javier Solana obviously didn't have time to come earlier, he didn't have an empty time. What made me particularly happy in the government's proposal for these amendments, at the Constitutional Charter, is the government's recognition that the current mandate of the current assembly of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is illegal. In fact, the government is proposing to the National Assembly that the amendment and the bill be adopted by an urgent procedure because their adoption by an emergency procedure would remove doubts about the legality of the mandates of the current assembly. So, what we have pointed out since the time when elections were to be called, direct elections for MPs in parliament in the state community, now after six months we see recognitions and the government, proposing as someone who has been elected, I don't know who else could propose these amendments to the National Assembly Constitutional Charter, by the system take or leave. It is interpreted as an act that should only be ratified. In my opinion, it's not like that. This is an act that should be discussed previously in the National Assembly, to hear what the MPs think of it, so that those who have self-authorised themselves sign an agreement. What was born wrong, the time did not correct; so we began with the Constitution, and so it is this day. And if there's a need to re-establish the Constitutional Charter in some part of the change, we're going to have to call Solana again, we're going to have to have a new agreement and so on. Some colleagues have talked here about something that is not on the agenda, that it is necessary to allow the citizens of Montenegro to declare in a referendum whether they are for the common state or not, and we all seem to forget that they already declared themselves to be for the common state in 1992. Just because that federal constitution did not allow again some referendum should have been passed by such a charter as we are changing today, so the Constitutional Charter that will give them the right to do so again, and because clearly no work has been completed in these areas, that is, those who have broken up this country's work outside have not finished, which they have invested a lot in Milo Djukanovic and some democratic forces here in Serbia, to create conditions, to create an environment for even the citizens to say even here in Serbia one day -- we are sick of these countries, such as these, loose and unstable, already to part. We don't think that's good. Remember, we were harsh critics of the Constitutional Charter itself and changing the status of the state, and I think Kostunica will remain registered as one of the statesmen who lifted his own function and state, but thus created major problems both for Montenegro and Serbia. I don't want to talk about everything my predecessors have said and explained why such amendments are unacceptable to us, given above all the respect for some law that has long become historic. I just don't understand how it's possible in the legal order, but it's not our first time doing things like that, so it's probably gonna go the way it is now. The fact is, if we were to speak as politicians, that Montenegro and the current regime in Montenegro did not want to pass a law on the selection of MPs. The fact that he's not there yet is the fact that no one knows if he'll bring it at all, so the question is, what's really going to happen if such a law doesn't pass. Suppose this assembly and this government continue until the end of the term of office of four years. This assembly of the parliament of the common state will remain in this composition for two more years. It should have been replaced a long time ago, and hence some other people would have been in significant positions in that loose state community. It is certain that Davinic would not be in any new assembly of parliament as defence minister, nor would Vuk Draskovic be foreign minister, and I fear that we have come into this situation and survive in such a chaotic state just because these people would finish that dirty job they were paid for, for which they were brought into those functions. You remember in 2000, when the Democrats here told us that only democratic changes should take place, that democratically elected representatives, the democratic government here in Serbia with the democratic government of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, will immediately resolve all these differences, that we will live in God knows what unity, in peace and love, so it did not happen. In my opinion, this issue must be resolved by political agreement, but by political agreement between sincere political partners. You see, as the previous DOS had Batic, who advocated independent Serbia, so the current government and the current majority of DSS have G17 that openly say are for independent Serbia. We have a Democratic Party that will not openly say it is for that, but with its moves and with its last stay in Montenegro and with the support given to Milo Djukanovic it also shows that it is for independent Serbia and for separation. So we have a political hypocrisy of people who are not up to being in such responsible functions. Then when Filip Vujanovic, Milo Djukanovic, Tadic and Kostunica are gathered together, pressured by Solana, to get more time and to get Solana to finish what he started, then all of us, as well as the citizens of Serbia, can only hurt the head. And free tells us a legal, professional story about these amendments being impossible, that they are no further guarantee to us, that we set fire to six months ago in a dead end. Or that we set fire to the deadlock even when it was signed in 2002, the Belgrade Agreement and when we brought such a charter, and when we created a state that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I am afraid that this is not the way to continue, that we also do not solve other important state issues related to Kosovo and Metohija in the same way. This morning, I heard in the news a statement by Vuk Draskovic, who says - unconditionally meeting all the conditions for entering the European Union and unconditional co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Vuk Draskovic must probably remain in this position he is and must speak as he speaks, because the martyr does not know if he is on the Hague indictment, and if he knows he is, will it be activated. It is the evil that the Serbian people are currently in, wherever they are, in Serbia or Montenegro. Most will decide whether to adopt such amendments. They remain legal and political history. In any case, some who come behind us will judge what effects we've had behind this, or what we've got and what we've lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16018	I thank Mrs. Pop-Lazic. The People's MP Marko Krstin has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared. The SRS has 16 minutes and five speakers left. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, for the second time in this conference, we are facing a very important topic of national interest in the state of Serbia. For the first time, we discussed Kosovo and agreed on how we would deal with this very complex national issue. That's how we stand before, in my opinion, a very important question, for the second time in this session. One of the MPs said yesterday that one parliamentary group loves Montenegro. I would say that the G17 Plus MP group I belong to loves Serbia, that we are allowed to love Serbia, I'm not saying that someone else doesn't love Serbia, but here we say - we love Serbia. They think, when we talk about the Constitution or the Constitutional Charter better said, we're starting from the time that we could make the state as it suits us. The Constitutional Charter, according to the word itself, is an interstate contract or, rather, an agreement, made with the presence of the international community. Why did that happen? Of course, this came because we had constant conflicts between Member States, earlier large countries, which later turned, unfortunately, into a conflict between the two members of the small country, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In doing so, we must respect the fact that the people of Montenegro voted for whom he voted, that the people of Serbia voted for who he voted for and that we cannot change it. The government is gaining power and winning the election. If we accept that, then we must accept the fact that the Constitutional Charter was brought by the consent of those political parties that were at the time in power in Serbia-Montenegro. So Serbia was not in a position to dictate the elements, it had to accept, and the Constitutional Charter, as it could, under such circumstances, no more. I believe there was no party that was satisfied with such a constitutional charter at the time in Serbia, but it was the result of the necessity created by voters in both republics. Such a constitutional charter, of course, did not satisfy the Serbia that signed it, and in later application it was even less able to satisfy anyone. That's why right now we're talking about a document that isn't, in whole, applied and which, just because it's not applied, has to be complemented in this way as it complements. I don't see what other way is possible but to do it by changing the Constitutional Charter. Those who are against the amendment of the Constitutional Charter, and for the common state, do not offer us a way to change such a thing. We have the Constitutional Charter, it's a legal document, and since the G17 plus advocates the rule of law, only by changing the legal document can we do something in that country the way it is. I just want to remind you that in that country we have only limited powers, that the state of Serbia has transferred from its sovereignty very significant powers within these limited powers, that the state of Serbia has accepted to finance 95% of all this, and that there is only 50% of the authority and that the electoral body of the Republic of Serbia, because of this constitutional charter, has multiple capacity to decide on the issues of the community. It is very important that Serbian citizens know that every citizen with electoral law in Montenegro, when he solves issues of the common state, has more than 10 times the capacity. This is not without meaning, because these same citizens contribute more than 20-30 times to the financing of the community. I must tell you that the position of G17 plus that we are against any imposition of will to anyone, including the electoral body, or people living in Montenegro. We respect the fact that 30% of people living in Montenegro who explain themselves as Serbs, and in other republics, which, unfortunately, have arisen from the collapse of the great state. But it's a fact, it's a historical fact, and we can't go back to it. We have seen in our near history that the application of any other species, other than the agreement, does not produce a result and that the Serbian people, unfortunately, always suffer from such experiments. Serbia, by the way, has invested its statehood in the common state. Whenever the country fell apart, it fell apart several times, the Serbian people suffered the most. Right now we're saying, let's make a deal, that's the deal, to respect each other. The deal was the Charter. We couldn't impose on anyone or our own terms. The charter was created as an agreement between the two states. It's the only way we can treat her. I understand that the Charter did not satisfy our interests at the time of its adoption, but its application has shown that the Republic of Montenegro, through its representatives, is not interested in being so constrained by powers to apply to the end. I'll remind you of the harmonisation of the customs regime. I'll remind you of two currencies. So it is impossible to do something seriously in that country under such conditions, and this is currently not up to Serbia, but depends on Montenegro. When we talk about a referendum, we haven't invented it, it's in the document, so, in the Constitutional Charter, it's scheduled for three years, it's foreseen for both Member States. I'm really sorry, because the G17 plus will really stand for it until the end, which other parties do not advocate, that we really give the citizens of Serbia a chance to say whether they want a common state and what kind of common state they want. Then we could make it a lot easier to decide how to make ourselves a party. This is how we talk about the hypothetical interest of citizens, who are for or not for the common state, without asking Serbian citizens about it. G17 plus advocates allowing citizens of Serbia, as well as the citizens of Montenegro, to declare whether they want to be such or such a state, and who they want to live with in the common state. I think there's a chance to talk to some other countries in our environment, where people speak similar languages, where people have the same or similar interests. So, I can't talk about common states as an expression of love, love is only about country, and that's Serbia for us. Here I can talk about interests, as something that connects or separates states. If the electoral body, i.e. the people and citizens of Montenegro saw in Serbia someone they wanted to live with in the common state, why not decide. At this point, they don't see it, and they explicitly show it. I think that Serbia's citizens should also be given the opportunity to plead. What are the amendments doing? The amendments regulate the time to hold direct elections for MPs by binding them on elections to the Assembly of the Republic and extending the mandate of the current Members; this is amendment one. Amendment two addresses one important question, where I really give the right to those MPs, who think it is not fully arranged, what are European standards. I think it could've been more detailed and better arranged. But given the generality of an act like the Constitutional Charter, I don't think it's his place in any way. So, in the act of lower legal force, we could make this more detailed, although the interpretation of this results in the fact that the party that wants to implement the referendum will be subject to the European Union's observation, that is, the organisation we are pursuing and on whose path we are on. The transitional provision, Amendment Three, actually gives us the legal basis for the implementing law, which is also part of this package. What would be the alternative if we did not accept these amendments, or the law for their implementation, because there are also such advocates. The first thing that would be, there's a legal vacuum, so the state doesn't have a parliament, the way it is -- it's gone. Secondly, pursuant to Article 14. Command, the state community is an international entity. The question is, who will be an international subject if the community no longer exists? Third, the level of functions that Serbia has passed on to the community will be preserved, which are defence functions, foreign policy, protection of human and minority rights, international economic relations and internal economic relations. So these functions, as far as we now say they are not fully executed, would be questioned, and they were transferred from Serbia's state sovereignty to the state sovereignty of that community. It is also very important that we would not meet the standards of a rule of law, to which Serbia pleads because it wants to join the European Union, and Serbia, with this government, has won a feasibility study. As for the accelerated development of Serbia to come to terms, it has a certain impact on how the electoral body in the Republic of Montenegro will be defined. If Serbia, which it already does, were to be legitimateised as someone who is desirable in the EU and is at the EU's entry, I think we would also have a different attitude of the electoral body, i.e. the people living in Montenegro. So that's one reason to go on a change like this. As for G17 plus, G17 plus will accept these changes, however, these changes are so acceptable if they match the interests of the people living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16020	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has 17 minutes left and my discussion is about 17 minutes away, and you see that we have seven minutes to go and I'm only going to use one big thought from the head of the G17 Plus Group -- we don't have time to waste, so I'm going to leave my discussion for tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16022	The word has Zoran Angelkovic, and then Vojislav Milajić and we end it. We've got 10 minutes. The SRS are leaving the O.R. Well, let's see if he's got us. I don't mind, just to see, I can't say anything by heart. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic. You have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16024	Mr. Zoran Krasic once warned me to look to the right, although I am sick and tired of my neck breaking out, yet I look, occasionally I look and I have to respect the computer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow only a few sentences regarding this law. As you know, the SPS will support these changes, but right away to be absolutely clear, we will support because we, as we know, are not only for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, we are for Yugoslavia, for the SRJ, for the good country between Serbia-Montenegro, because it is the interest of the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro and the state of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course we didn't vote, and today we wouldn't, in that sense, not even the SPS position has changed, because even then we think and now we think it was one quasi-document of the quasi-state, which will not constitute any basis for the functioning of these two republics, these two nations, these two functional, if I may say so, territories. At that time and now we thought that it would work very well for the functioning of the state community, and we are convinced when we say that the common state and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then we think in all possible parameters. We are convinced that this is an interest, and when it comes to the market, so the EU did not first make some community and immediately rules of the constitution, but made some community, so it has increased the powers and today this vote that goes through Europe, and this has failed in France, is also the need to strengthen this state community, in the end, and it has greater authority as a state community under this envisaged constitution than this Constitution. So, the need to strengthen the market space, to strengthen traffic space, what connects us. It doesn't just connect us to Montenegro the fact that there are 31.7% of Serbs there, connecting us and the market, and traffic, and culture, and history, and whatever you want, and the need to live together. Of course I would like not only to be the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, I would also like to see the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia. I know, and if it were to be voted in Macedonia, I am convinced that they would be interested in such a state community. If there are conditions, and that is why we are voting today and we want to vote on these amendments, to help strengthen the state union, to bring about a change of political stance in Montenegro, we will help that state community survive. We are convinced that, if the referendum beats the interest of the citizens of Montenegro, which means it stands out for the common state again, and they voted 12 years ago for the common state, that in this case it will strengthen and change the Constitutional Charter to the constitution of the common state. It is not just a matter of perspective towards the EU and the fact that this creates a common state and a state community. If we go back a little bit, I remember these big stories at the end of the 1990s about just having to change the government in Serbia, and today I've been listening to some nebuloses and nonsense about it, and that's why our state leadership in Serbia didn't co-operate with state leadership in Montenegro, and then it couldn't work very well. These are totally unsuspecting and incorrect attitudes. It does not have to be the same leadership in Montenegro as at the level of the state union or at the level of the federal republic. It doesn't have to be the same leadership in Bavaria, in the independent state of Bavaria, it's called, as it is at the level of Germany. This does not mean that if Germany's second coalition is at the level of power, it must change the coalitions in Bavaria and vice versa. Election will is respected, but the constitution and constitutional obligations arising from this must be respected. We are asking that both Serbia and Montenegro respect their obligations under the Constitutional Charter as it is. Of course, we think and we wouldn't mind and that this referendum is earlier in Montenegro, and if we said it was going to be autumn, we'd better see where we are and where we are, and if it was going to be a state community, whether it was going to be a real state community, or if it was going to continue this quasi-state to work... (President: Time, Mr. Angelkovic. I'll be done in a minute. If we look at this history a little bit and look at what happened after 2001, when DOS promised to fix relations, just to make a change of government, and above all DS, they promised it, just to make a change of government. And what happened; today we have what Mr. Markovic said earlier: we still have two bills left, we still have the border, we have further colder relations between Serbia and Montenegro as a state and we have still unresolved relations, and we have a continuing conflict between the two leaderships. Therefore, the referendum and then the elections if there is a state, and if there is no common state there will be no choice either, it is a solution, so the SPS supports that issue to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-31-0.u16025	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milajic, but since you have 15 minutes and there are only two minutes left until the end, you agree to do so in the morning. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 10.00 in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Aligrudić, Gordana Komic, Esad Djudjevic, Vladan Vukicevic, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Bosko Ristic and during the afternoon Velimir Stanojevic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amendment to the constitutional rule of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, with the proposal for a law on the implementation of the amendment and II to the Constitution of the National Community of Serbia and of the Black Gore (continuation) The word has a National MP, Momir Marković, followed by the National MPs Vojislav Milajić and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm paying attention that 15 minutes is available to schedule the time.
